i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-6	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office has submitted a report on gender mainstreaming and integration policy. And the government has answered it in its letter. The Government takes a very positive view of the Swedish National Audit Office's work and believes that, based on the proposals in the report, it can further strengthen and improve its work. We Social Democrats in the committee think that the government's response to the report is positive and that it is taken up in a good way. Regarding the views of the Swedish National Audit Office, we would like to point out in particular that they see an improvement in how to report and in various materials, such as financial plans and economic policy, indicate a gender perspective. It has improved since the entry into force of the Social Democratic and Environmental Party Government. There is a progression in that work, although, of course, just as the National Audit Office rightly points out, it can be even better. But that is something that we welcome. There is reason to point out that the government is taking these issues very seriously. They are working hard to raise the issues and push them forward. Our view is that it would be sufficient to add the report to the file. As I said, this is a positive response. But the Liberals have submitted a motion. They want to add gender equality policy objectives to the report. We Social Democrats do not think that is necessary. We therefore have a reservation in the report. I would like to endorse our S-V-MP reservation. Otherwise, it cannot be stressed enough how important this work is. We are very much in favour of it being brought forward.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-12	Mr President, I would like to We will now discuss a report from the Swedish National Audit Office called something as heavy-handed as Gender mainstreaming of integration policy – an unused tool. It reports that the objective of integration policy is equal rights, obligations and opportunities for all, regardless of ethnic and cultural background. According to gender equality policy objectives, women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives. One of the objectives is that women and men should have the same opportunities and conditions in terms of paid work that gives economic independence for the rest of their lives. Mr President, I would like to Despite this, the participation of foreign-born women in the labour market is significantly lower than that of both domestic-born women and foreign and domestic-born men. The Swedish National Audit Office concluded in 2015 that although the government's establishment reform aimed, among other things, at increasing the conditions for women's participation in labour market-related efforts, this had not been achieved to a significant extent. In addition, the OECD 2016 assessed that Sweden needs to develop efforts to establish women born abroad to a greater extent in the labour market. What, then, was the result of the review, Mr President? Although integration has been a high priority area and knowledge of large gender differences has existed for a long time, the Swedish National Audit Office shows that the audited documents have not been sufficiently integrated into gender equality. Although gender mainstreaming has been the main strategy for implementing gender equality policy since 1994, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that the government will not be able to implement gender equality policy until 2015, especially in financial plans and economic policy guidelines. This shift is also reflected in the governance of the Swedish Public Employment Service, where the government, among other things, reintroduces requirements for operations to be designed to promote diversity and gender equality. The Government's section on integration and the labour market in the budget proposals has made various progress in integrating the descriptions, analysis and forward-looking elements of gender equality. From 2015, the government has taken gender into greater account in its descriptions, identified challenges and ambitions. However, despite the fact that the descriptions often show large gender differences, they are left largely after 2015 without any explanatory analysis. On the other hand, in the vast majority of the documents examined, the government indicates risk factors for weak integration and labour market orientation. These include short education, weak knowledge of the Swedish language, lack of job-related networks, birth region or disability. However, there is a lack of analysis of the importance of these factors in explaining gender differences with labour market links. With the exception of recent years, there has been no analysis of whether there are further explanations for gender differences such as the fact that women take greater care responsibilities, gender standards and gender stereotypes. The Swedish National Audit Office's assessment is that the audited documents have not been sufficiently integrated into gender equality. There have been positive developments in recent years, but more analysis of the causes of gender gaps is needed in order to develop policies. Labour market policies also need to be accounted for and analysed so that it is possible to monitor the situation of foreign-born women and men even when they are no longer defined as new arrivals. Liberals and friends want to introduce a new sub-target into the gender equality policy target structure. Among other things, they do this by adding a word: a) Women and men, girls and boys as immigrants should be met with the same expectations in all areas of Swedish society and have the same rights and opportunities to create an independent life in Sweden. After all, one wonders why it is so important to add the word. When you say that, it includes all women and men, girls and boys. It is as if there were complete equality among all Swedish-born people. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants a society for everyone, not for just a few. It requires a policy that gives everyone regardless of background, religion, skin colour, gender or sexuality the same opportunities and the same right to good education, work and housing. For the Left Party, integration means pursuing an inclusive policy that lays the foundation for a more equal and equal society. A well-functioning reception of refugees is an important part of a policy of inclusion and establishment. The reception of people on the run from the asylum process to the housing situation and the establishment of society is characterised by the centrality of individual human rights. General welfare is central to upholding the rights that it is our duty to protect. We believe that the inclusion work must begin on day one, immediately after arrival in Sweden. It will be easier to enter the labour market and get an education for those who have recently come to Sweden. One key is language teaching. Students who are currently attending the introduction programme will have the best opportunity to both learn a new language and enter comprehensive school in a short time. We in the Left Party want women to have the same opportunities as men to work. We have a series of proposals to make it possible. The three most important are investments in care for the elderly, investments in childcare facilities and equal parental insurance. It shouldn't be a financial loss to be a woman. If women worked to the same extent as men, female employment would increase by 250 000 full-time jobs. It would also have a major impact on the national economy and strengthen public finances. Mr President, I would like to In our spring budget exercise, we in the Left Party proposed a major investment in more staff and training in the care of the elderly. We know that most carers are women. This is why efforts on care for the elderly are particularly important in order to increase women's opportunities to work. The Left Party also wants a gender equality commission to be set up with the aim of increasing women's employment rate and giving women equal access to the labour market as men. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to endorse the reservation. I wish everyone a really nice summer.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-29	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing the Swedish National Audit Office's report on gender mainstreaming. The report notes that gender mainstreaming has improved significantly since the S-MP government took office. But there is still much work to be done. Foreign born women should have equal access to the labour market as everyone else. I can only agree with the Swedish National Audit Office's review. We need to be better at gender mainstreaming integration policies and at addressing gender gaps in depth. Deep gender mainstreaming is one way of countering structures that result in women being disadvantaged in the labour market. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's report, women born abroad in Sweden up to the 1980s had a higher level of employment than women born in Sweden. Some would be surprised at this information because the situation today is the opposite. This development shows a number of things. Above all, it shows that the situation we have today is not written in stone but is changing. It is not a natural law for women born abroad to have a weak position in the labour market. It also shows that the people – the women – who come to Sweden are a heterogeneous group. These are people with different backgrounds, conditions and dreams. The women who came to Sweden up to the 80s had a different work experience and education from some of the women who came to Sweden in recent years. Therefore, they also need different types of support. We cannot have uniform collective solutions to complex individual problems. It disadvantages those with the worst conditions in the labour market but also those who want to and can be integrated faster. The government has already done a lot in the area of establishment. The establishment period has been halved. It's a great success. Today, foreign-born women living in Sweden have the same employment rate as women in the EU in general. But we will not settle until the gap between foreign and domestic born disappears. We now need a real feminist establishment policy, taking into account different power structures both in the home and in the public space. Women have been disadvantaged in the labour market for decades because they take greater care of their families, children and the home. But these are limitations that are created. It's not natural law. We must combat patriarchal structures that prevent women from participating in the labour market on equal terms. Everyone benefits from this. And it's not just about economics. When both parents have the opportunity to work outside the home, their relationship becomes more equal. The January agreement raises the issue of integration and stresses the need for a clear gender perspective in all establishment measures. It says, among other things, that parents' leave must also be taught Swedish. Active parental leave is one way of strengthening women's access to the labour market. This is good. But the Green Party wants to go one step further. We want to introduce three-part parental insurance and earmark the parent's days so that at least one-third is used by each parent. The Green Party wants all children to grow up with both their parents. The statistics show that more father months lead to more fathers staying at home and taking greater responsibility for housework. More father months also reduce expectations from society and the employer that mothers should stay at home longer. Equal parenthood is the most effective measure to tackle inequalities between men and women. This applies to both native and foreign born parents. Gender equality is a priority for this government. That is an obvious part of all our policies. The government recently changed the Employment Service's regulatory letter and gave 300 million more to labour market policy efforts to get foreign born women into work. It is an investment that will pay off for society. If foreign born women have the same employment rate as domestic born women, Sweden's GDP will rise by 58 billion per year. Effective labour market policies – adapted to the needs of the individual and the market – are one way of achieving this target. Sweden will be more equal. The right to realize one's dreams and reach one's full potential without being limited by one's gender should be self-evident. Everyone benefits from better and more equal integration. I would like to express my agreement with the reservation.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-40	Mr President, I would like to The objective of integration policy is equal rights, obligations and opportunities for all, regardless of ethnic and cultural background, we can read in the Swedish National Audit Office's report. If we continue to read about gender equality policy objectives, it says: This is exemplified by sub-goals of paid work that give economic independence. That is not the case today. If foreign born women were to work to the same extent as native born women, Sweden's bnp would increase by SEK 58 billion in one year. These are matters of concern to all of us. But effective integration is of course the most important thing for the individual. Getting your own income, work colleagues, vacation, lunchbox and whatever it is – all of this helps to create freedom, an opportunity to vote with your feet if you like. Just because you come here to Sweden in the middle of life as a short-educated woman doesn't mean that you will be sentenced in advance to a life in alienation in one of our million-dollar program areas. There are too many women today. Society must offer hope to these women. We must show that we understand the social problem and provide relevant answers. Here, the Swedish National Audit Office's review shows, among other things, the need for additional statistics on foreign born women and men. The audit by the Swedish National Audit Office is not an uplifting reading. The recommendations will be important to implement in the future work, not least to analyse the causes of gender differences, so that conditions become more equal between women and men. The fact that women who have fled here from other parts of the world are locked into exclusion by a closed housing market and a locked labour market not only affects these women but also harms future generations. The OECD has shown that the establishment of mothers in the labour market affects not least their daughters' future job prospects. According to studies by the Institute for Labour Market Policy Evaluation, IFAU, the risk is 70 percent higher that children of parents with financial assistance themselves are in need of financial assistance in the future. Statistics by Statistics Sweden show that unemployed parents increase the risk of young people falling out of work and studying by nearly 70% and the risk of not getting upper secondary school qualifications by 40%. Lacking upper secondary school qualifications increases the risk of exclusion by 118 percent. Breaking the exclusion of women born abroad affects not only women today but also future generations. Mr President, I would like to I have worked hard as a municipal councillor to make demands on people who have grants to do their utmost to be hired. It's important. For many of these women, the road to the labour market is long, not least because of parental leave and language barriers. Here we believe that the policy must formulate new responses, such as grant ceilings, activity requirements, SFI requirements for parents on parental leave who receive supplementary support and early and individual efforts to get to work. These are just a few examples. Adding the mainstreaming perspective to the objectives of gender equality policy is therefore an important step in the right direction, in order to enable policies to steer more effectively efforts to break exclusion in the past both today and in the future. In view of this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-49	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Summer is on the way, and we Members of Parliament are soon going on a summer holiday – a rather much needed one, I would say, after a very special first parliamentary year. A long history of government formation led to the January agreement. Who really decides there, who has had to sacrifice the most and who has benefited the most is still something that for many is unclear. But while we are considering this question over the summer, there is a large group in Sweden that is thinking about completely different questions: How can I get a job and create my own livelihood in Sweden? How am I supposed to learn the language? How can I create a social network in a country where I feel very few? These are considerations that do not take summer holidays. These are considerations to which we must address and find answers. We cannot take time off from the issue of equal integration. As the Swedish National Audit Office also states in the report that we are debating here today, the Government's gender equality work linked to integration leaves a great deal to be desired. The report explains, among other things, that gender differences among foreign born children continue to be large. Foreign born women are less closely linked to the labour market than foreign born men, do not participate in integration policies to the same extent and do not achieve the same results from the same integration policies. There are therefore clearly identified gender differences linked to integration. Having your own livelihood and control over your own economy is important for all people in Sweden. Not having to be stuck on a job where you no longer feel comfortable or stuck with a partner you no longer want to live with depends on having your own economy. It means more choice and more freedom if you have your own livelihood. It is very worrying that a large group of women, particularly from a foreign background, is being denied this opportunity for greater freedom. Even when a country changes, a number of difficulties are encountered, and barriers and barriers to entry into the labour market should not be further such. I also wonder, Mr President, whether we would have allowed this situation to continue if it had been about women with a background in Sweden. I don't think so. In fact, it seems that foreign-born women do not meet the same demands as men of foreign background. That is unacceptable. The fact that you do not have the same requirements and that you do not have equal rights and obligations when you come to a new country is not equal. To make demands is to care. I am convinced that women who are immigrants here have just as much to contribute as men in the same group. It is good that the feminist government at least seems to have high ambitions in gender equality policy. But high ambitions must also be followed up with actions and active measures. Without actions and active measures, fine words become just fine words. I am therefore very pleased that today we are going to introduce a new objective of gender mainstreaming. I am a little more pleased that it was the Swedish Democrats who made the decision, albeit at the very last moment. It is up to us as the opposition party to ensure that the government does not even sit back and lose momentum during the summer, that words are followed up with action and concrete measures, and that equal integration becomes a goal to work towards for all those women who need greater freedom and self-sufficiency. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I would like to wish all Members – opponents as well as fellow Members – as well as the committee secretariat and everyone else in this House who in some way contributes to Swedish democracy a long, pleasant and hopefully warm and sunny summer.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-59	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office's report, which forms the basis of the debate we are having here today, shows that although integration is a priority area, and although knowledge is available about the large gender differences that exist in integration policy, there is no way of monitoring how different political initiatives fall out for all women and men. The report notes that it is not possible at any time during the period under review to find out in budget statements anything about participation in various operations and the outcome of externally born women and men who are not newly arrived refugees or refugee relatives. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that, with few exceptions, the initiatives are described without affecting underlying gender differences and how they are expected to contribute to both women's and men's labour market dependency. The lack of available information is, of course, a shortcoming. But the knowledge that foreign-born women do not participate in various actions on the same terms as men is there. The knowledge is there that it takes considerably longer for the group of foreign-born women, although it is far from a homogeneous group, to learn the language and get a job. The knowledge is there that too large a proportion of foreign-born women do not learn the language or have a job to go to. However, what the Swedish National Audit Office highlights here in the report is important. The focus should be on analysing the performance of labour market policies and analysing gender gaps in order to be able to put in place the right measures. The government parties write in their reservation, and it started from 2015 onwards in financial plans and economic policy guidelines, that a gender perspective should permeate all government policies. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that although the government's descriptions show large gender differences, they are still left without any explanatory analysis. We therefore stand without conditions for equal and effective support for the integration of women and men born abroad. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the objective of integration policy is equal rights, obligations and opportunities for all regardless of ethnic and cultural background. According to the overall objective of gender equality policy, women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives. One of the objectives is that women and men should have the same opportunities and conditions in terms of paid work that gives economic independence for the rest of their lives. As I said, that is not the case today. Far from it. New arrivals of women participate to a lesser extent in various preparatory activities compared to men. They are later registered with the Swedish Employment Service and start Swedish for immigrants later than men. As the committee points out in this report, women and men must meet the same expectations and the same demands to work. But that's not the case. I do not criticise childbirth or parental leave. I'm a Christian Democrat. However, I criticise the fact that we are not able to make demands for SFIs also during parental leave, SFIs with baby or SFIs with babysitting. Isolation is not the answer to getting more foreign-born women to work. Activities to prepare women on parental leave for work through professional language studies and mentoring programmes are a much better answer. In this report there is an announcement to the government on the grounds that Liberals' motion for a resolution won the majority in committee. The claim means that the government should introduce a new gender equality policy milestone on integration, which emphasises that women and men, girls and boys as immigrants should be met by the same expectations in all areas of Swedish society and have the same rights and opportunities to create an independent life. The basic position of the Christian Democrats has been that the issue of integration should primarily permeate all gender equality policy objectives and that proposals for new interim targets should perhaps be dealt with in a single group. But we're not getting results. If this helps along the way, this can contribute to better measurability, analysis and, therefore, more targeted efforts, yes, we support this. Hopefully it can also lead to a more honest debate. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservation. I wish you all a nice summer!
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-68	Mr President, I would like to I cannot describe in words how proud I am to be able to stand in this House, on the last working day of Parliament with debate on matters, and to ask for the majority of committees' proposals in the report, and in this case the Liberals' motion, that a new interim objective for gender equality policy be introduced in order to strengthen foreign-born women in Swedish integration policy. While I would like to thank the parties on my left who support the Liberals' motion, I can only regret that the government parties on my right have not taken advantage of the opportunity that existed in committee last week when we adjusted the matter. It was important to reach out one hand and together across the block border determine how important it is that we have a clear gender perspective in Swedish integration policy. This would have shown that there is a strong commitment to ensure that Swedish gender equality applies to everyone in our country, both native and foreign-born women. Mr President, I would like to There are few issues that have involved me so much in my political work as to make the situation of foreign-born women visible on the labour market and the fight against honour-related violence and repression. We often take pride in the chest in international contexts and are happy to boast that we are the world leader in gender equality. We are happy to point the finger at other countries, lecture them and condemn their view of women. We are more than happy to export our feminism and equality to other countries. But we are not even trying to export that feminism and equality a few kilometres away from Rosenbad to our most vulnerable areas where freedom is greatest for women and girls born abroad. Even today, although we have taken a step in the right direction, issues such as honour repression and religious extremism are still being debated. To this day, cultural relativism is gaining a great deal of space in the debate. We have seen this not least recently in the debate that has sparked the action of the National Agency for Education and Gender Equality when the Government proposed that the concept of honour-related violence and oppression be included in the curricula. What I have taken to heart, and which makes me very sad and dismayed, is that we are returning to a 17-year-old debate about not putting groups against each other. Which groups are we talking about? In what way is it to put those who are subjected to the oppression of honour against other groups who have their freedom in Sweden today? How can it be sensitive to say that Swedish gender equality should apply to everyone? How can it still be sensitive to state that foreign-born women and girls should also have the same right to freedom and equality as any other citizen in this country? Mr President, I would like to For us Liberals, this debate is about defending women's right to economic freedom. It is about ensuring a policy that also gives them access to the Swedish language, the right to their own work and the right to earn their own money. Because we Liberals know that the road to freedom and a life of freedom and independence from society and its partners goes through their own money. We Liberals have stressed for several years how important it is that Swedish integration policy is permeated by a clear gender perspective. Not least after the large refugee wave to Sweden in 2015, we saw how weak the link between the current integration policy and the work for gender equality was. It is also a strong point of view that the Swedish National Audit Office highlights in its report. It believes that the government's accounts do not give a sufficiently good picture of what the general labour market policy means for foreign-born women and men. Mr President, I would like to For more than a hundred years we have been fighting for gender equality in Sweden. Important reforms such as equal rights and universal suffrage, abolition of co-taxation, the fight for free abortion, earmarked months in parental insurance, the introduction of public and extended childcare facilities have laid the foundations for the rights that are self-evident to me as a woman in Sweden today. But for some women in Sweden it is not a given. For many of the women who have come to Sweden in recent years, the life that I live is just a dream. Although we are in a very strong boom, there are too many differences between domestic and foreign-born women's employment. Women born outside Europe, in particular, are the furthest away from the labour market. I am tired of the fact that we are repeatedly warning against the labour market's lack of employment while at the same time turning a blind eye to the untapped potential of this group. Removing the obstacles that stand in the way of women in our suburbs entering the labour market is the greatest labour market challenge of our time. We must stop seeing foreign-born women as victims and begin to see them as a strong force that can fill the gap that exists in the labour market today. For a long time, women born abroad have been a blind spot in Swedish politics, but no longer. It is high time that Sweden got an integration policy that puts women at the centre. This can only be done with political will, the right efforts and changes to our transfer systems, which unfortunately create major lock-in effects and today hold women back. Mr President, I would like to We Liberals want broad cooperation to address these challenges. Our motives are very clear and easy to understand. We want to make women visible and ensure that they are able to participate as much as men born abroad in preparatory work. We want women as quickly as men to be able to register with Arbetsförmedlingen and start their SFI education. We want there to be the same expectations and demands on women as on men. Women are the key to integration. That is why we believe that a new gender equality policy objective must be introduced in order to strengthen the integration perspective in gender equality policy. We no longer trust the good intentions of the government. We also do not accept hiding behind the fine wording of the January agreement on strengthening the gender perspective in integration policy. For us, it is important that words are translated into action. And unfortunately, we are currently in a position where the government is not showing the power to act. Therefore, the parties of the Riksdag must shoot the government in front of them. It is sad, but when the important initiatives do not come from the government, we Liberals do not intend to stand by the sidelines and watch. We also do not buy the argument that gender equality is part of the interim objectives that exist today for gender equality policy. We take note of the stinging criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office has made in its report, and we are prepared to take responsibility and create the clarifications that are called for in the report. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to highlight the link between women's integration and the fight against honour-related violence and repression. We know that many women who come to Sweden have to take a very big responsibility for both home and children. Society has long accepted in its willingness to show tolerance and respect for other cultures that women can be isolated in their own homes. The misplaced goodwill has contributed to the strengthening of the grip of the oppression of honour on our vulnerable areas. This is something we can never accept. If we do not integrate women, parallel societies will spread and honorary culture, which does not belong in a modern, secular and equal country as Sweden is in 2019, will be handed down to the next generation. Such a development would primarily affect the freedom of little girls. If we are to succeed in integration, we must succeed in gender equality. If we are to deal with the oppression of honour, we must make women born abroad independent and independent. Precisely today, it would have been desirable if the Minister for Gender Equality had been able to come to this House and take the debate with us. I do not even know if she is aware that there is a majority in this House that will later today take a decision on introducing a new interim objective for gender equality policy. I assume that this autumn the government will return to the Riksdag for new debates, then hopefully also with a prepared work on how the new sub-target will be implemented in the gender equality policy. I am sorry that I have exceeded the speaking time, but I would also like to wish all the Members, the Employment Committee's office, the President and everyone else who fights for our democracy in this House every day a pleasant summer!
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-92	Mr President, I would like to Much of what Gulan Avci says here and wants to extend a hand to implement, I am absolutely prepared as a social democrat to reach out a hand and receive and help implement. Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would just like to mention what Mrs Avci said in his speech that we Social Democrats, left-wing parties and environmentalists in any way in the reservation would not take the honour-related violence or the position of foreign-born women seriously. This is not true. We have received a report from the Swedish National Audit Office. We believe that the government's acceptance of it has been positive, as I mentioned earlier. I have not actually heard from the speaker's chair or seen in the texts of the report that you criticise this. What you are proposing is to introduce a new target that distinguishes women with immigrant backgrounds and Swedish women. We believe that if you have a goal where women and men should have the same rights to economic equality and to paid work, this includes all women and girls and all men and boys. That is our dividing line in this. We think that we take this much more seriously by having an inclusive approach, and we think it is a way of integrating gender equality. We do not want to separate special groups in this way. This does not mean that we in any way have a relativist approach to the issue, but that we really want to integrate this into the mainstream.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-97	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that I am pleased that you, Patrik Björck, asked for a reply to my speech – not least in view of yesterday's exchange of words between us in the Committee on Employment because the Director-General of the Equality Agency was visiting. I note time and again that both Patrik Björck and the Social Democrats are trying to hide behind the other objectives of gender equality policy. But, Patrik Björck, so here it is actually: Words don't matter as long as you don't transform the beautiful words and formulations into practical action. We know that we have had a situation for very many years in this country, ever since integration policy was introduced as a political area of our own, where women have been invisible. Throughout the last term of office, you and your party and your feminist government stood repeatedly and boasted that you were indeed a feminist government running a feminist policy. But time and again you, your party colleagues and your ministers missed the extent of vulnerability in our vulnerable areas and how religious extremism contributed to women's freedom in this country being curtailed day by day. If we are to talk seriously about lifting integration and women who are the furthest away from the labour market today, it is necessary, not least because there is a doubt as to how you conduct feminist policies, that you are asserting in your policies, in actions, in writing and in concrete measures how to lift foreign-born women. Unfortunately, we are not there yet, and that is why we need this interim objective.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-101	Mr President, I would like to Words matter, and that is why we think it is important not to introduce this sub-objective – precisely because words matter. This action is interesting, Mr President, because that is what we are doing. When we abolish custody allowances and when we change and improve parental insurance – as you in the previous alliance government have done – we make a real difference to all men and women in this society. When we pursue a strong labour market policy in which foreign-born women in particular are the ones who most improve their labour market position in these years with social democratic and environmental partisan government – then we make a real difference. When we strengthen the economy and when we invest in welfare, we make a real difference. Let's move from words to deeds. That's what this government is really doing. But we're not happy. We want to strengthen the economy even more and prosperity even more. We want to push back unemployment even more. That is what we do when we move from words to deeds. As I said, it is particularly foreign-born women who have strengthened their position on the labour market with our policies. That is the difference when we discuss the report. You want to introduce a word. If words are not important, I do not understand why this word is so incredibly important to bring in. We think that all men and women should have the same opportunities. You would like to point out that this applies specifically to immigrant men and women. That's what separates us. You're the one dealing with this with words, not us. We do things for real when we remove the custody allowance, improve parental insurance and push back unemployment. You've never been able to do that. It's important to remember that, if you're going to be honest. Then I realise that it may not be the Liberals who are the biggest problem in the Alliance on these issues, but you are contributing to it.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-107	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that Patrik Björck is standing in this Chamber and, in all seriousness, claims that it is thanks to your policy that more women have come to work. Excuse me, Patrik Björck – have you missed that despite the fact that in recent years we have been in a very strong boom with very low unemployment, unemployment differs very much between native and foreign born? The unemployment rate for natives is good 6 per cent today, while that for foreign born is up to 20 per cent. Furthermore, if we peel off the statistics of the group of foreign born and look at foreign born men and women, we will come up at terrible levels of foreign born women in this country who do not have a job to go to. You came to a set table with a good economy and with an establishment reform that had begun to sit down. It is clear that this leads us to see more women coming to work in a boom. But employment is only 30% today in the group that you boast that you have certainly got into work with your policies! How can you be satisfied and proud when we have a development in which so many women, despite a strong economy, do not enter the labour market, while parallel societies are spreading throughout the country? They do not affect you, they do not affect me, they do not affect our children or your grandchildren, but they do affect all those who are at risk in our areas. The feminism that you represent, you are happy to export to other parts of the world. But it never reaches our vulnerable areas – Järvafältet, Skärholmen and so on. Why don't you explain it? Why is it that your policy never highlights these women enough so that they can have a job and their own livelihood? We know that this is the case, with one's own economy, that one can free oneself from honour-related violence and oppression.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-110	I remind the House of the practice of speaking through the President and not directly between the debaters.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-113	Mr President, I would like to This year the Committee on Foreign Affairs has been given the honour of conducting the Parliament's last debate on matters. It is extremely pleasing in one way. At the same time, it is sad, because it means that Parliament formally does not have any more meetings this year. The issue we are going to debate today is the government's letter regarding Sweden's membership of the UN Security Council 2017– 2018. Membership of the UN Security Council is, of course, a very important issue for Sweden, as well as for the rest of Europe and hopefully the world. I would like to begin by expressing my support for the moderate reservation No 1 on the overall need for reform within the United Nations. Of course, I also support the other moderate reservations. I would also like to support the committee's proposal that the Parliament should endorse what the committee says about an independent assessment of membership and announce this to the government. This is one of the most important issues in today's report – the one on an external, independent evaluation of Swedish membership of the UN Security Council. This is important not only in order for us here in Parliament to understand what has happened, how the work has been carried out and what it has cost; it is also about gathering knowledge for future experiences as well as, in fact, about trust in society in international work. I mention this because in our society today there is a lack of confidence in some international cooperation and in the ability of politicians to work on security issues. That is why it is extremely important for us to be clear what has been done and how the costs, not least for the campaign, have been managed. The issue of funding has also been dealt with in the KU, Mr President. It is mentioned in the report 2018/ 19:KU20, which stated that there is a discrepancy between the department's assessment and the evaluator's interpretation of the mission. I therefore look forward to the Parliament supporting the announcement. However, I would also like to raise other issues that have been important for Sweden's participation in the Security Council. I would like to begin by pointing out that the UN is a unique body through its worldwide membership. Here the countries of the world are represented and can work for peace and human rights and reach far-reaching agreements. Issues where Sweden and the government have been driving are, for example, the climate, women's role, peace work and commitment to peace in Ukraine. I emphasise Ukraine because it is a country that is under attack from Russia and is also close to us. I would also like to emphasise what is about the need for a stronger UN, a UN that can work for peace and protect citizens. Today, the civilian population is in many areas vulnerable to conflict. That is why we need to work on humanitarian intervention. However, a major problem when it comes to the UN, Mr President, is the right of veto. The right of veto has made it difficult to get to grips with certain key issues. I am thinking, for example, of Syria and the situation there, including Russia's intervention. The UN is also prevented from intervening in the internal affairs of a country unless the Security Council decides to take measures to safeguard peace and international security. That is an example, Mr President, in which we in Sweden must work to develop the UN. I would also like to stress how important it is for the government, now that the work of the UN Security Council is over, to place greater emphasis and focus on the EU and security work in our neighbourhood. Sweden should be a constructive force in European cooperation and also ensure that the EU's intentions and solutions to Member States' needs are ensured, as well as a deeper common foreign policy. I would also like to mention women and children. Women and children are the hardest victims of conflict. Many women and girls suffer from forced marriages, genital mutilation, trafficking and sexual abuse. Violations of women's rights are one of the main obstacles to democracy and economic development. The UN has done a lot. I am thinking of Resolutions 1325 and 1820. But they also need to be implemented worldwide. And women must have the opportunity to be included in the peace process, in conflict resolution, at all levels of this work. Finally, Mr President, I would like to raise the issue of the situation in the Middle East. We read daily about how peace and security in the Middle East are being jeopardised. Here it is important that Sweden, with previously a high level of confidence in the issues, works very actively. Unfortunately, I have to mention that Sweden, when it comes to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, has landed wrong because of the government's actions in 2014 when it recognised Palestine as an independent state. This has led Sweden to difficulties in being a credible party to the negotiations. I also know that this has reduced the opportunities for the EU to speak with one voice. Of course, Israel's relationship with Sweden has also been damaged by this. I say this because what is happening between Israel and Palestine is important and concerns us all. In this context, Sweden must be a neutral and serious party. I see that the Foreign Minister is here today in the debate, which I very much welcome. I will certainly have comments on my speech. Mr President, what I would like to end with is a warm thank you to the Foreign Affairs Committee's office, which has spent a great deal of time and effort in its work to support us Members. I would also like to wish the secretariat of the Committee on Foreign Affairs a pleasant summer!
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-129	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has long shown a deep and successful commitment to the United Nations. As a pioneer country, we have shown the way on several major issues facing the world. For Sweden in the world, the UN has been perhaps our most important tool in promoting peace and security around the world, and it serves as an organ to help millions of vulnerable people. We should be proud of our extremely long commitment to the UN, where in many cases we have also been at the forefront of a better future for more people and for better development. At the same time, we are living in a changing world. The world of 2019 is not a world of peace. Perhaps it is not the world that we would wish we had after so many years in the UN. For too many people around the world, everyday life is an insecure and unfair place. Human rights cannot be taken for granted. That is something we have learned from history. It is through the UN that we can best drive the global change that we want to see for ourselves, and UN cooperation is the backbone of international work for peace and security, but here too there is an improvement potential, not least within our own organisation. This is one of the reasons why the Swedish Democrats have also promoted changes to the UN's internal rules on the protection of whistleblowers, the dispute settlement mechanism between the UN and its staff, evaluation and audit systems and the possibility of prosecuting persons who commit crimes during UN service. Mr President, I would like to While we have been on the Security Council, we have seen millions of families around the Middle East being forced to flee. We have seen how Russia has continued its aggressive behaviour, and we have seen negative developments in democracy in the world. In other words, global developments are in many respects alarming, very alarming, so many of us have had high expectations of the government's membership of the UN Security Council – a role in which we have been assigned to represent those who do not have a voice and stand up for what we see as fundamental, fundamental rights and values. It is also a role in which we have been able to set an example to other countries. The Swedish Democrats therefore welcome the consensus that we have within the Committee on Foreign Affairs in this report. It is exemplary that our committee has been able to find agreement in getting an independent review of Sweden's membership of the Security Council. Only through strong commitment can Sweden work for a better world. This also applies in the context of our work at the UN, and this applies in particular to our work in the Security Council. The government's work needs to be reviewed in order to maintain good transparency before Swedish taxpayers and Swedish voters. We should be able to have high expectations that the Swedish government has stood up for the values that the government claims to represent. Mr President, I would like to In this report, we are also dealing with a wide range of other requests for motion which may not be directly related to the work of the Security Council, but they are nevertheless very important and, in many cases, touch on issues that have been discussed and raised in the Security Council. In Israel – the Palestine conflict we see continuing problems, and I agree with the previous speaker, Margareta Cederfelt, that the government's actions have resulted in even greater problems. It is an act that has resulted in diplomatic difficulties, and just as Mrs Margareta mentioned, the recognition of Palestine is a clear sign of how it has acted in the directly opposite direction in order to achieve peace and security. In other words, the peace process has been made more difficult. There is no doubt that the Swedish Democrats on this issue are very clear. We are calling for both parties to this conflict rather than for unilateral criticism of Israel, as we have seen from the government, which, unlike the state of Palestine recognised by the government, is democratic and is based on the principles of the rule of law. Our policy in this area is based on both parties, both Palestinians and Israelis, being prepared and given the opportunity to compromise sustainable solutions for peace and consensus. Mr President, I would like to We have further motions in this report that we are dealing with. It's a whole series of important moves. As regards the situation in Syria, for example, but also Iraq, we have seen a lot recently. We have seen how the Islamic State, which previously controlled a country as large as Britain, has been defeated – not as an organisation, but they have lost control of the territory of these countries. But as I said, they are not defeated as an organization. It is still a terrible terrorist organisation that spreads terror among people in this area and still controls land areas in other countries. It is an organization that has forced millions of people to flee. They have murdered, enslaved, harassed and committed all the serious crimes that can be found out. The worst of all is that Sweden has part of the responsibility for this. Hundreds of Swedish citizens have come down to fight for the Islamic State, that is, hundreds of Swedish citizens have been part of the worst terrorist organisation of our time. The terrible situation in Iraq and Syria is not over. In Syria, areas are still controlled by other jihadists; the Idlib province is one example. In Iraq and in other parts of Syria, we are still seeing terrorist attacks by the Islamic State and similar groups. People are still suffering something terrible from what these brutal groups are doing. At the same time, we have other groups that have stood up to protect civilians and to help people in need. Not least several Kurdish groups in Syria and Iraq have been the main force against the Islamic State. They deserve our support. I wish we could have seen more of that from the government. More appreciation could have been given to the Kurds in Iraq and Syria. We also have a responsibility to support the victims in these parts – minorities have been slaughtered by IS and other groups – and to protect the Christians in the Nineves plain and so on. We have a responsibility to protect the people who have been the main victims. We have a duty to ensure that in future it will be safe for those who live there and for Swedish citizens. For this reason, it is no wonder that we should punish everyone who has been a participant in the organisation. I therefore welcome the fact that the Christian Democrats have raised a motion for an international ad hoc tribunal for crimes committed by IS. This is something that the Swedish Democrats fully support, but of course a wide range of other commitments are needed as well. Mr President, I would like to The very least we can do to honour people who have fought against IS and to honour the victims of IS violence and terror is to acknowledge the genocide committed by IS. There's something I can't stress enough. Mr President, I would like to I apologise for having oversold my speaking time, but I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 15. The Swedish Democrats, of course, support all the SD reservations in the report. I wish the committee office, Members and all the audience a pleasant summer.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-146	Mr President, I would like to The UN is a cornerstone of Swedish foreign policy. The UN is the benchmark of international law and international law. But the UN is not without problems. The UN reflects the world as it stands today. It is, of course, also visible in the Security Council. There was a great deal of disagreement in the Security Council before Sweden came along there, and there is still disagreement regardless of how many coffee or coffee sessions have precipitated during the Swedish period in the Security Council. The United Nations and the Security Council are facing the reality of an increasing number of authoritarian and dictatorial states seeking to grow in power and influence. They are, of course, challenging the entire UN system and the multilateral legal order that we have held high in the Swedish Parliament and in Sweden. This requires a special discussion, and it is not very visible in the government's letter. Mr President, I would like to When the Foreign Minister honours us with his presence in this debate, there is reason to start in a positive direction. I would like to emphasise that we in the Center Party saw it as important that Sweden took up the challenge of seeking a seat in the Security Council. It was done under the alliance government. We welcomed the fact that the Social Democratic-Environmental Party government won the seat in the Security Council almost three years ago. I also think it is good that Sweden and the government have raised and linked the issues of climate and security in the Security Council. It is important, and it is urgent that more people follow up and follow up. It is also excellent that the government has sought to participate, where it was possible, in order, for example, to bring about some kind of opening-up of talks in the Yemeni conflict and the Yemeni war. That, of course, is something we all welcome. We also welcome the priority given to the issue of women's influence, although we consider and have raised the question of how far it will be a lasting impression. Not least when we have received information in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have heard many times that without Sweden the issue would not have been raised. Then we can think about whether it is something that becomes permanent if Sweden is not included. As a critical UN friend, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has always said, it is of course important to also examine how the government has acted. The letter that has come, Mr President, we think, reflects a little bit of selective vision. It seems that all the good things that have happened have had a Swedish pen behind them. I do not want to rule out the fact that there has been a Swedish pen with it sometimes, but let us look at the signal of an investigation team regarding the crimes against humanity that Daish has committed. It would be strange, to say the least, if Sweden had not actively participated there and voted in favour of such a measure. One can, of course, highlight the issue and say that it has been handled thanks to Sweden or portrayed as the Swedish added value, but let me still think that there is reason to be a little more careful with all self-appreciation. Let me also point out, Mr President, the absence in the government's letter of the major debate that began in Parliament on the government Security Council campaign. It would have been nice if the government had also touched on this issue in a letter to the Riksdag. It was an issue where the Foreign Affairs Committee had to wrestle with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in succession to see what had pre-emergency. This issue should, of course, have been highlighted more clearly. I am thinking not of a campaign but of how the Parliament was handled in the campaign. What difficult questions have not been raised? What is it that you do not touch? We in Parliament note, of course, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has often wondered why we do not make proposals and claim that we are empty-handed. But we ask ourselves whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs has wanted to listen and have a dialogue with Parliament about our entrances. For example, we have raised the issue of veto rights and reform of the Security Council. Since this issue is so strong in Sweden, it should have been an issue on which Sweden acted during its time in the Security Council. It is a difficult issue, but there were opportunities to lift it up. Constructive renunciation to prevent an obstinate veto would have been useful to include in the discussion. Of course, it would also have been important to raise the issue that is often raised in the Swedish Parliament, by many, namely the possibility of humanitarian intervention – responsibility to protection. We have considered it important to stand up not only for states but also for people when they are threatened by their own state. It would have been urgent to raise that issue. Similarly, it would have been urgent to raise the issue of accountability and the ICC. The General Court is not directly part of the UN, but it is nevertheless important to include the UN's ability to manage and try to strengthen the ICC system when it is so strongly threatened today. It would have been valuable. The government has had openness and transparency as its entry point. That is, of course, important and correct. Press releases may be published after meetings of the Security Council, which has been a minimum, but it would have been interesting if this openness and transparency had marked the entrances to the discussions with the Riksdag. I have already mentioned the Security Council campaign and our attempts to gain deeper insight into the investigation that the government had brought up to date. The government invited civil society to dialogue. That is a good thing, not least because civil society is currently under serious threat in the UN system as well. There too, it is clear how many of the authoritarian governments and regimes are strangling the possibility for civil society to operate. There's a paint mouse paper on where we're going. More and more of civil society's so-called representatives are government representatives who are trying to stop or hinder the action of free civil society. As I said, it is good that they invited to dialogue with civil society in Sweden. It would also have been good if the government had been more interested in dialogue with the Riksdag and the Foreign Affairs Committee – more of dialogue and less of information. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all our reservations, and I would like to refer to the specific opinion. However, I only support reservation 3 in paragraph 1. I would also like to thank Mr President, the members of the committee, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the committee secretariat and the staff of the House and wish everyone a nice summer.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-165	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's time in the UN Security Council has been an important period for Swedish foreign policy. With Sweden being a member of the UN Security Council for two years, we had a good platform to highlight our values and our foreign policy priorities. On a general level, Sweden has had a major impact on feminist foreign policy, and it has made a mark on the work of the UN. I myself was privileged to be part of one of the two delegations who travel annually from Parliament to the UN. The trip gave me a deeper understanding of the UN and the solid work that Sweden does in the UN. I would like to thank all the staff in the Swedish UN representation and all the Swedes who work within the UN system. There's a lot of them. Sweden makes a difference. Unfortunately, however, the work and tone of the UN Security Council are very much governed by the five permanent members of the United States, Russia, China, Great Britain and France. To a large extent, these five decide what is to be discussed, how it should be discussed and perhaps above all what should not be discussed in the UN Security Council. Although vetoing is quite unusual, the five permanent members use their veto power to make the work of the UN Security Council much more difficult. Perhaps I had a naive belief when I thought that Britain and France do not always do so, because we can see that they too have their clear agendas in the UN Security Council on the basis of the policies of their countries. In today's report there is a unanimous announcement to the government that an independent actor should evaluate the time in the UN Security Council. I believe that Sweden needs more UN debate. Therefore, it is good if Sweden's time in the Security Council is evaluated, both for us in the present and for the next time in about 20 years when Sweden is expected to re-enter the UN Security Council. At the same time, as the committee states, it is not easy to carry out such an evaluation. Sweden was only one in 15 members of the Council. It is therefore difficult to see in the Security Council's decision what Sweden has been able to do differently. However, an evaluation can provide perspectives on Sweden's priorities and working methods during the UN Security Council. Through academic height, it can give important perspectives and input and at the same time increase the debate about and interest in the UN in Sweden, something that I think is important. Civil society plays an important role as guardians and intermediaries of information within the UN system by monitoring decisions taken, informing the UN and its Member States about developments around the world and informing the public about what is happening in the UN. Sweden has a tradition of close cooperation with civil society and includes Swedish civil society organisations in the delegations they send to various UN meetings. However, there are several states that want to restrict civil society's transparency and participation in the UN system. This is an unfortunate development of which we have seen several worrying examples. Civil society participation in UN high-level meetings is addressed within the General Assembly, where Member States take a position on a list of organisations. This means that in practice each Member State has almost the right to veto the participation of civil society organisations. There is also no need to give a reason to exclude some. This regime needs to be reformed to ensure civil society participation at UN meetings and within the UN system as a whole. The Left Party therefore believes that Sweden should work to strengthen the role of civil society within the UN. Sweden often sets an example when it comes to civil society representation. It is important that we continue and also develop this tradition. The Left Party believes that Sweden should stand up for civil society's right to participate meaningfully and present reviews and recommendations at international meetings and negotiations. The government should therefore always include a broad representation of civil society in the delegations sent to international meetings. Sweden is a long-standing UN friend and major donor to the UN system. Confidence in the UN among the Swedish population is high. With this role comes opportunity and responsibility. Sweden should work systematically to ensure that the UN safeguards and strengthens freedom of assembly and association in all its activities. The UN country offices and agencies have a special role to play in promoting the rights of vulnerable actors and must never give priority to issues of local political resistance. In view of the increasingly difficult situation of human rights defenders globally, it is particularly important that all UN Special Representatives stand up for human rights and have clear support from Sweden. We therefore believe that the government should demand and support the UN in standing up for the democratic space of civil society. Mr President, I would like to Today, every sixth child in the world lives in an area affected by war and conflict. In a conflict situation, children are particularly vulnerable. They have limited opportunities to speak for themselves and are rarely given room at the negotiating tables. Children's safety is often seen as a non-issue or as a matter that can be dealt with when the conflict is over. The Convention on the Rights of the Child stipulates that States Parties, in line with their commitments under international humanitarian law to protect the civilian population in armed conflicts, shall take all possible measures to ensure the protection of children affected by armed conflict. Sweden should therefore work to ensure that all international efforts include child welfare advisors. One of the biggest abuse of children is to turn them into child soldiers. It is impossible to say exactly how many child soldiers there are, but according to the Red Cross it is about one hundred thousand ls children participating in more than 30 armed conflicts around the world. The use of children as soldiers in war is nothing new, but according to the organisation it has become more common for children to participate actively in conflicts. It is, among other things, the development of cheaper and more manageable automatic weapons in recent decades that has driven this development. The reasons why children become soldiers can vary. Forced recruitment forces children out on the battlefield, to act as carriers or to be exploited as sex slaves. Becoming a soldier can also be seen as the only way to survive under very harsh and difficult conditions. Terror groups such as al-Shabab, Boko Haram and Daish, but also several states, systematically use children as tools in their warfare. The consequences are disastrous. Torture, violence, and drugs are just some of the methods used to force children into inhuman acts. Children are often used as cannon food and forced to do the most dangerous tasks, such as clearing the way through minefields. A report shows that in Sierra Leone 60 percent of all child soldiers have witnessed violent killing. Even more have been forced to see rapes, and nearly half have witnessed massacres. The price of children made into soldiers is almost immeasurable, and both mental and physical health suffers. Although the reasons why minors become soldiers are numerous and individual, it is vital that child soldiers are considered victims and not perpetrators. The UN Security Council has identified six serious crimes against children as particularly serious. One of them is the recruitment and use of children in armed conflicts. 66 armed groups have been listed in 14 countries that meet these criteria. Sweden should have a clear strategy on how to exert pressure through bilateral and multilateral channels to stop any use of child soldiers and to introduce and support programmes for the reintegration of child soldiers. During its time in the UN Security Council, Sweden has in a commendable way raised women, peace and security on the Security Council's agenda. It is almost 20 years since the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1325. Seven subsequent resolutions have also been adopted. Together they form the UN agenda for women, peace and security. The resolutions state that the increased participation of women in the prevention, management and resolution of conflicts as well as in post-conflict peace building and reconstruction is a prerequisite for achieving sustainable international peace and security. The war in Syria has now been going on for eight years. During Sweden's time in the UN Security Council, the war has been a tricky issue that divided the Security Council, especially its permanent members. Despite few resolutions overall, it must be seen as a success that Sweden's work led to resolutions on humanitarian aid to Syria. While large parts of IS have been beaten in ruins, there is a risk that the war is not over. Violence and war can re-emerge as Turkey now threatens the Kurdish areas. This can affect the Kurds – those who have fought IS the hardest. Sweden must stand up for peace and justice in Syria and demand that Turkey withdraw. Having said that, Mr President, I wish the President and all the Members a pleasant summer in favour of reservation 10.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-191	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by supporting all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats and calling for the approval of Amendment No 17. Unfortunately, Sweden's campaign to the UN Security Council was edged by a lack of transparency, appeasement of authoritarian regimes and secrecy. On several occasions, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been criticised for keeping documents on the Security Council campaign. This action led to an examination in the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee, which resulted in criticism of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. The Ombudsman has also criticised the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for failing to register documents concerning the Security Council campaign. It is clear that there is a need for greater transparency and greater respect for the principle of public access within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The work on Sweden's campaign to the UN Security Council illustrates just that. There are also other reasons for concern. One of them is that, in connection with its candidacy, the government chose to present Sweden as a so-called independent voice in foreign policy, despite the fact that our country is bound by treaties to work for the EU's common foreign and security policy. It is clear that the EU, as Sweden's main foreign policy arena, was given priority in favour of the UN and the Security Council, despite the fact that the scope for influence is severely limited and that the Security Council is dysfunctional due to the right of veto. Of course, there are also positive elements to what happened during Sweden's time in the UN Security Council; anything else would be strange. But the Christian Democrats' assessment is that the Security Council's seat cost more than it tasted, both politically and economically. We therefore welcome and support the proposal for an independent evaluation of the time in the Security Council. Mr President, I would like to UN cooperation is an extremely important part of Swedish foreign policy. The need for a global forum for dialogue and joint responsibility in relation to the world's major challenges is great. In addition, Sweden as a country has much to gain from a functioning international security regime. All too often, however, the UN has failed in its capacity to act when important values were at stake: freedom, democracy and respect for human dignity. Not infrequently, the inability and unwillingness of the United Nations have marked its action in the Middle East. During Sweden's time in the Security Council, hundreds of thousands of people in Syria have been killed and had their dreams of a life of dignity beaten in ruins by the Syrian regime. In Iraq, Islamic state criminals have been guilty of some of the worst crimes the world has witnessed since World War II. These have been rapes, enslavements, crucifixions and systematic torture. Against Christian populations and Yazidians there was a genocide. So far, Sweden and the Red-Green Government have refused to recognise IS genocide against Christians – Syrians, Assyrians, Chaldeans – and Yazidians. In the UN Security Council, too, the Swedish Government has not promoted a binding recognition of genocide in international law. This is a bleak fact that the government, in the light of history, will have to answer for. IS terrorists, who have trampled on human dignity in the most ruthless and barbaric way, must now be brought to justice. Sweden, like other countries, has a responsibility to ensure that these offenders cannot expect anything other than prosecution and international accountability. In 2017, the Christian Democrats put forward the proposal that the government should press ahead with the UN Security Council for an international ad hoc tribunal for IS crimes. This was dismissed by the government on the grounds that the situation in Syria and Iraq as a whole would be referred to the International Criminal Court, the ICC. Unfortunately, however, it was a stillborn proposal, which was virtually immediately blocked in the Security Council. The government had the chance to seriously raise the question of a temporary international tribunal, which had increased the possibility of bringing IS criminals to justice. An international ad hoc tribunal for IS crimes can be a way forward. The Security Council's decision on an investigation team for crimes committed by the Islamic State in Iraq indicates just that. But nothing in the government's letter indicates that this road was being tried. On the contrary, it says that in the negotiations Sweden stressed the importance of accountability not only involving the Islamic State. Of course, Sweden will work for accountability for all parties, but it would have been possible to work for IS terrorists to be held responsible in a special international tribunal for IS crimes. It is regrettable that the government did not listen to the Christian Democrats and others while Sweden was still a member of the Security Council. Now the issue is on the agenda, and that is a good thing. But when Sweden's time in the Security Council is to be evaluated, it will not only be about what was done but also about what the government did not do. Regrettably, the victims of the genocide and their families did not receive the support and redress they deserve. With this, Mr President, I too would like to thank the President and Parliament officials as well as the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the past semester and wish you a pleasant summer!
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-207	Mr President, I would like to In connection with the adoption by the UN Security Council in April of Resolution 2467 on sexual violence in conflicts, which Germany had presented, the United States called for the deletion of a paragraph on the SRHR, which meant that it facilitated abortions. If this did not happen, the United States would veto the resolution. The paragraph was not really about abortions but about the right to health for raped in conflict. After many ifs and buts, the Germans backed. The text that the United States did not want disappeared, and the text was watered down considerably. Thousands die every day because they lack the right to health care, maternal care, safe abortions, contraception, information, or the power to change their life situation. SRHR stands for sexual and reproductive health and rights and is about ensuring that these opportunities exist. In the run-up to the decision, Angelina Jolie and William Hague wrote a debate article in the New York Times. When the Security Council held the meeting, Nobel Prize winner, Congolese Denis Mukwege, Yazidi Nadia Murad and human rights lawyer Amal Clooney, representing Yazidians who have been abused by IS spoke. In the ensuing debate, some argued that the Americans should have been given a veto to make it clear that the United States, even within the UN system, is countering people's sexual rights. Others believe that the Germans were right because the resolution had other important aspects to counteract the stigma of those born as a consequence of rape in conflict. The US administration has become increasingly tough and no longer accepts wording about SRHR at all. What does Lars Adaktusson think about this? Is it right or wrong for the United States, by threatening its veto, to remove the wording of the SRHR in UN resolutions?
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-211	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats' view on the issue of abortion, as Håkan Svenneling well knows, is very clear and clear. We stand for legal and safe abortions, not only in our own country but also in other countries. We work for it in the context we can. On the other hand, we do not think that the issue of abortion is a matter for the European level or that it should be brought into the European Union, for which some parties and forces are working at the moment. That is why I voted as I did in the European Parliament. It was not because I am against legal, free and safe abortions, it was precisely because the EU should not be dealing with this issue. There's no doubt about it here. We stand for what is expressed in our medical-ethical program: the right to legal and safe abortions.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-214	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that Lars Adaktusson stands up for the right to abortion in other countries and that it is done within the UN system, which my question was about. If you're going to stand up for the right to abortion, you have to do it all the way. We see the various attacks that opponents of abortion are now trying to do to weaken the right to abortion. The President of the United States has been a clear advocate of these methods, and the decision of Alabama's 25 Republican men to ban all forms of abortion is just the latest in a long series of attacks. In the spring, Lars Adaktusson and the Christian Democrats were caught in the eye for their actions in relation to the right to abortion, both in the European Parliament and in Parliament. It may not be surprising given that you voted against the right to abortion on 22 occasions in the European Parliament, that you have travelled in Colombia this spring and met opponents of abortion, and that the Christian Democrats believe that a refusal to care should be introduced. Then, as a doctor, you should be able to say no to having an abortion for medical reasons or for personal ethical reasons, which you call freedom of conscience. In Italy, this has led to two thirds of the country's doctors not performing abortions, and in some regions there are as many as 95% of all doctors. This leads to people being denied the care they are entitled to. In another country, Norway, the Christian Democratic sister party, the Christian People's Party, recently received the first restriction of abortion rights since 1976. The amended right to abortion was KrF's most important requirement to be part of and support the Norwegian Government. Women's choices have now been limited in our neighbouring country. What does Lars Adaktusson think about the restrictions on the right to abortion in our neighbouring country, Norway?
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-219	Mr President, I would like to There is a misunderstanding in this debate when it comes to freedom of conscience. It is not just any question; it is a human right, formulated in Article 14 of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. It is mentioned in the same context as freedom of thought and religion. It is not the invention of someone who opposes abortions, but it is there. There is legislation in some forty countries in Europe that protects freedom of conscience and manages to combine such legislation with liberal abortion legislation and the right of women to decide. Trying to engage in a discussion of freedom of conscience that does not add anything to the substance does not add to the debate the seriosity it deserves. Mr President, I would like to An untruth does not become a truth because it is repeated or pronounced from the pulpit of the Riksdag. Håkan Svenneling says that I have voted against abortion on 22 occasions. That's wrong. That's not true. As I said, I stand behind legal and safe abortions. The reason I voted as I did was because I believe that social issues such as abortion do not belong at European level. To claim that someone has an opinion that they do not have is dishonest. I myself would never claim that Håkan Svenneling is for armed revolution, mass murder and deportation of dissidents because the Left Party has its roots in Communism.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-224	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for reservation 3 to be approved under paragraph 1. I have signed up for six minutes in the speaker's chair and will try to keep this. That means I can't cover every area. Therefore, anyone who is more deeply interested in the views of the Liberals on the letter on Sweden's work in the UN Security Council, I refer to going into Parliament's website and searching for the motion entitled 2018/ 19:3090, which is the joint motion of the Liberals and the Center Party. Mr President, I would like to The UN is very important; we know that. The UN Charter is central, and the various UN institutions – the General Assembly, the Security Council and so on – are a kind of backbone of international work and the rule-based world order we want. It is being challenged and undermined today by a variety of countries and forces. It is therefore important that Sweden is an active member of the UN, that Sweden is very committed and that we are a generous donor to various humanitarian efforts, projects, institutions and so on. Against this background, we have of course also had high expectations of Sweden's participation in the Security Council, when we now had an opportunity to be there for two years, 2017 and 2018. But, Mr President, it is a little worrying that one can sum up the government's reporting with the fact that the Swedish Government is extremely enthusiastic about telling us how well it has been, but when the media and the Riksdag want to take part of documents to review this so-called success, it has been cover-up and cover-up. This is surprising, to say the least, because Sweden's key words in the campaign to enter the Security Council were precisely transparency and transparency. The questions about the costs of the campaign, the handling of documents, evaluation and so on have since been threshed in the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Constitutional Committee, with the usual follow-up in the media. We in the Foreign Affairs Committee had to practically drag the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' political oath to the Franz Jäger cabinet in the palace of the Prince of Inheritance, which locked up the investigation into the campaign to the Security Council as ordered. I do not believe that even the most loyal foot-old in the labour movement can be satisfied with the government's action. But now, at least, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has decided to endorse the demand put forward by the Liberals and the Center Party, namely that there should be an independent evaluation of Sweden's membership of the Security Council. Mr President, I would like to One issue with which the government at least seems to be reasonably satisfied is Resolution 2401 of February 2018 on the ceasefire in Ghouta and Afrin in Syria. After many years of war, this was, of course, an important resolution, if it could lead to anything, and it was at all important that something came from the Security Council because Russia has for a long time blocked the UN from acting. Sweden worked on this text together with a number of other countries, including Kuwait, the Netherlands and Equatorial Guinea. If the ceasefire had lasted at least a few weeks, Mr President, some areas around Damascus and in north-west Syria would have had a little breathing space. Perhaps humanitarian aid could have come in. Perhaps more civilians could have been evacuated. But this truce did not last a week. It didn't last 24 hours either. I don't even think it lasted an hour. The effect on the ground of this Swedish-designed resolution was non-existent. This describes the Swedish government in its letter as a – hold on now – It is therefore Social Democratic new language for zero. It could possibly be applied in other areas. The football match didn't end 0 – 0; it ended I find it very worrying when, in this way, the Swedish Government is trying to paint rather than admit that things have not gone our way. One of the most acute difficulties facing the UN is the use of obstinate vetoes by permanent members of the Security Council, which prevents the Security Council from adopting resolutions in acute conflicts, such as Syria, as has been mentioned. This, of course, damages the credibility of the UN as a global player for peace and security. However, the government did not give priority to pursuing the issue of the long-term quorum and credibility of the United Nations. We should also have questioned the veto that was put forward much more clearly. The list of points where criticism can be made can be made longer. There has also been very strong criticism from the previous speaker in a number of areas, ranging from Sweden's Middle East policy to our unfortunately sometimes too weak voice to protect vulnerable democracies and minorities and so on. However, there are areas where Sweden has contributed to things. Basically, of course, it is good that Sweden is in the UN Security Council. We are driving the climate in a way that many other countries are not, and it is important that our voice can make a clear difference. Sweden has a much more active commitment to women's and girls' rights than many other countries, and it is also a work that we should highlight and be proud of. Mr President, I would like to In concrete terms, we can also mention the conference held in Stockholm, which brought together the parties to the war in Yemen. Of course, that meeting has done no miracles in substance. There has not been peace in Yemen. But the meeting was important, and it also provides a basis for future meetings where you can use some conclusions from the Stockholm Conference. Moreover, if the parties violate some of the principles and other things that have been found, they can strike each other in the head and claim that they do not comply with the rules and so on. This, too, is something that, step by step, can still contribute to something positive in Yemen, and so I would like to say, on behalf of the Liberals, that we think that conference was very important. With this, I would like to thank everyone for this working year – Mr President, all the officials of the Parliament administration, Members, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and others.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-239	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating Sweden's two years in the UN Security Council. Our report is based on the letter from the government, which describes the work done in the Council during this time. It is a very comprehensive material, so my eight minutes will only be enough for short impact in all the work that has been done. Like Håkan Svenneling, I would like to begin by expressing a great and warm thanks to all the Swedes who have worked hard with Sweden's membership of the Security Council and who have done their very best during an intense and difficult time – the staff at the representations in New York and Geneva, at the embassies around the world and here in Stockholm and all the Swedes who are employed in the UN system. Sweden has made a difference in world politics. It would not have been possible without all this toil from those who worked with Sweden's participation in the Security Council. A big and warm thank you to all of you! Then there is the question that we are debating today: how much difference has Sweden made? Would Sweden have been able to act differently in any way? The report contains motions from various parties, and I call for all reservations to be rejected with reference to the text of the report. On one point, we have agreed in committee, and this concerns an evaluation of both the campaign and Sweden's time and influence in the Security Council. This is something that the government is also in favour of, and we are now looking forward to the government starting an evaluation. It is important to learn lessons, both for Sweden's possible future membership of the Council and for our Nordic neighbours who may be next, as well as for other EU countries entering the Security Council. What has Sweden done? There has been a time in the world when polarisation has increased, the number of humanitarian crises has grown, the major powers have acted increasingly arbitrarily, multilateralism has been questioned and the world order based on international law that regulates the relationship between the countries of the world has actually been eroded more and more. The lock-ups in the Security Council between the five permanent members are well known. The right of veto binds the United Nations and makes it impossible to act even though it is so clearly appropriate. We have seen this not least in the Syria conflict, which is perhaps the most tragic example of recent years. The fact that the blockages are so strong that the conflicts are so difficult to resolve and that the Council and the UN are in a desperate need of reform could make you think that the situation is hopeless. Nevertheless, Sweden has been able to make some difference, and I would like to mention a few areas where it has been clear. Firstly, we have strengthened women's influence by working consistently on the issue of women, peace and security in all UN efforts, for example, where this perspective is now present. We have made sure that the role of women has been mentioned in the Council's statements. The Council has taken a stronger stand against the use of sexual and gender-based violence in conflicts, and a whole new sanction criterion has been developed on this violence in the sanctions against Libya, South Sudan and the Central African Republic. We have also significantly increased the number and proportion of women rapporteurs, not least during our months as President of the Council. As always, we have continued to push for UN Resolution 1325 and subsequent resolutions. Secondly, we have put the issue of climate change linked to security on the Security Council agenda. Thirdly, we have pushed the perspective of children's rights and strengthened work on young people, peace and security. During Sweden's Presidency in July 2018, Sweden arranged a high-level meeting, where a unanimous Security Council adopted a resolution on prevention of children in conflicts. A record number of 98 countries supported Sweden's initiatives as co-sponsors. As has been mentioned here, Sweden has also made a difference in some of the world's most difficult conflicts, for example in Yemen, where the terrible war has led to a humanitarian disaster. In November 20-18, 85 000 children were expected to have died. It is an indecent and completely incomprehensible figure. In this conflict, Sweden has worked hard to ensure that the Council continues to focus on the humanitarian situation and strengthen the envoy. The work led to the peace talks held here in the Stockholm area, as has been mentioned earlier in the debate. As far as Syria is concerned, we have worked on the resolutions that led to humanitarian aid reaching millions of people in need. In fact, the only three resolutions agreed by the Council during these two years were produced on the initiative of Sweden. With regard to Myanmar, where the Rohingya people have been subjected to terrible abuse, Sweden has managed, despite severe opposition, to put the country on the agenda and to ensure that the Council visited the country, that strong statements were made, that accountability was discussed and that a special envoy could be appointed. In the conflict on the Korean Peninsula, Sweden has also played a very active role, both in the Security Council and bilaterally. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Then one can wish that the world was different, that we had come further in putting an end to violence in Yemen and Syria, that we had dismantled the Korean Peninsula and democratised Myanmar. It hasn't been possible all the way. But we have done good work and made a difference to vulnerable people in many places. Of course, we cannot be satisfied with the world situation, but we can be proud of the efforts we have made in the Security Council. When we talk about all these crises and conflicts, we should remember that there are places where developments are moving in the right direction. In Gambia and Liberia crises have been avoided. In the Horn of Africa, Ethiopia has taken seven miles of life in a democratic direction. And the relationship between Eritrea and Ethiopia has improved radically. In Colombia, there is now a peace agreement between the government and the Farcgerilla. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, the world situation is difficult. Nevertheless, Sweden has managed to influence during its time in the UN Security Council. We now agree in committee that the government should ensure that an independent evaluation is carried out to find out how much and how. The world situation is difficult. Authoritarian leaders in large powerful countries are challenging the liberal world order. Democracy is under increasing threat. Wars and conflicts cause inhuman suffering and drive tens of millions of people on the run. Inequality, inequality, oppression and exploitation of both human beings and nature threaten our future. The world situation is difficult, but I am convinced that progress can be reversed. Never before has mankind had better opportunities to influence its future. Democracy can and will defend itself as it has done before. We have succeeded in halving extreme poverty, and we have now set ourselves a global development objective to eradicate extreme poverty. People live ever longer, learn more and will not in the long run tolerate oppression and poverty. The world situation is difficult, and it is all the more important for countries like Sweden to be more involved in taking global responsibility and standing up for international law, human rights and democracy. Then you need to have patience and reasonable expectations of what you can accomplish. I would therefore like to conclude with what Mrs Hammarskjöld said about the UN: the UN has not been created to bring humanity to heaven but to save it from hell. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the members of the committee for this year and to wish everyone present a happy and pleasant summer.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-263	Madam President, I would like I would like to agree that Sweden has done many good things during its membership of the UN Security Council. As Kerstin Lundgren pointed out earlier, we, too, on the moderate side, supported the application. We were also involved in initiating it during the time of the alliance government. But I'd like to come back to the accounting. I am very pleased that the committee is now proposing that the Parliament should support an announcement on an independent evaluation. Then I would like to ask Olle Thorell a question. Since I have not understood that the Social Democrats have been the driving force in committee in setting up an independent investigation, I wonder whether Olle Thorell is prepared to contribute to the rapid establishment of an investigation and that the investigation should also include an account of the costs of the campaign. I am highlighting this issue because it is extremely important. I believe that the members of the committee must assist in this, and in particular the members of the government parties.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-266	Madam President, I would like I thank Margareta Cederfelt for her questions. It is a pity that the Moderates are getting caught up in the campaign for membership of the Security Council. It's been three years. This has been reviewed in the KU, there have been debates here in Parliament – numerous interpellation debates with the Foreign Minister – and we have agreed in committee that there should now be an independent and independent evaluation of both the campaign and the influence that Sweden has had during this time. I do not share Margareta Cederfelt's view that the Social Democrats have been passive in this regard. We've been asking for information from the State Department. The committee's Bureau has examined the possibility of carrying out such an evaluation under the authority of the committee during the spring but has not succeeded. That is why we now think it is reasonable for the government to be given this task. I am pleased that we can come to an agreement on such an important issue. I think that shows that we have nothing to hide. We are proud of the efforts that Sweden has made. We think it was right for Sweden to seek this membership of the Security Council. And we think it's good that every stone is turned around, so that we from independent and independent researchers find out everything that has been done – why not.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-267	Madam President, I would like I do not agree with the fact that we are stuck on this issue. We want an account, and that is what we have repeatedly highlighted in committee and here in Parliament's Chamber. We will continue to do so until the evaluation is completed and presented to us in committee. That is why I am highlighting the issue. It has been delayed and delayed, of which I am absolutely convinced that Olle Thorell is extremely aware, as one of the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Can I really interpret Olle Thorell's reply as meaning that the Social Democrats in committee will be working very actively and hard to get an investigation on the committee table as soon as possible?
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-269	Madam President, I would like What we have agreed in committee is an evaluation – not an investigation – of the time in the Security Council. Of course, we want this to happen as quickly as possible. But let us remember that it is not an easy matter to evaluate this. There is an enormous amount of factors involved. Being able to derive exactly what is Sweden's degree of influence in complex processes and negotiations may not be possible in all parts. But we want it to be made as far as possible and independent from the government. It is also worth recalling that the government has nothing against this. The government welcomes the fact that there is an evaluation. I think that Margareta Cederfelt is possibly creating a conflict that does not really exist. That is a bit of a pity in Parliament's last debate. But it will be an evaluation. We are behind it and, of course, we want it to be done as quickly as possible.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-272	Madam President, I would like Global challenges require common solutions. Therefore, a well-functioning international regulatory framework is crucial for us to be able to face the future and overcome the difficulties we are facing. Cooperation and consensus must be established in order to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement and also all the ambitious and vital Agenda 2030 objectives agreed by the world. These are objectives that will prevent a runaway climate, which will otherwise lead to great human suffering and mass death of animals and nature – something that is already going on and escalating. These are objectives that will lift people out of poverty, improve their chances of life and free them to participate in democracy and shape their own lives. This applies not least to women, who have been held back for centuries, without power and formal power to change. Every objective of Agenda 2030 is incredibly important, and achieving it is in many ways crucial for our future. It is not least about being able to leave a habitable world to our children. A planet destroyed by climate change and war is no legacy to be proud of. That is why we must work together so that we can leave behind a better and more peaceful world. Therefore, I am still happy to read about Sweden's work in the UN Security Council and what we have managed to achieve during our time there. In a troubled world, the task of the Security Council is to safeguard peace and security, which is crucial. By being a clear force that has stood up for human rights, international law, gender equality and the humanitarian perspective, Sweden has shown that it is important and successful – and that it has also worked – to have a principled attitude. The fact that we have constantly, at all times, kept the focus on these fundamentals and for our obvious parts has helped to strengthen the work of the Council, even now that our time there is over. In addition to this bottom plate, which has lifted the level, the four thematic areas that Sweden has worked for and focused on have produced results. Madam President, I would like We have very much driven feminist foreign policy also in the Security Council, and we have consistently worked for women, peace and security. As a result, the Security Council has clearly indicated against sexual violence in wars and conflicts and a marked increase in the number of women's organisations now active in the Council's work. The fact that the Security Council strengthened its practice of including women's and girls' perspectives also strengthens the work of the Council – and of the entire international community – and the important results that need to be achieved in the long term. Throughout our time in the Security Council, Sweden has also consistently pushed for a more preventive approach to war and conflict. We cannot just stand by and watch an escalating development without trying to intervene at an early stage. However, preventing conflict must be a priority. It reduces human suffering and results in fewer people being severely wounded to both body and soul. Direct successes have been seen, among other things, in the process of a peaceful transition of power in Gambia and in the work of the UN Peacebuilding Commission. The work of the Security Council Working Group on Children and Armed Conflict is also an important element. All prevention must start with early intervention, and the children are our future. Protecting children today prevents conflicts tomorrow. This simple truth was also the name of the debate held in July 2018 that led to the launch of a process for developing practical guidelines on how to integrate child issues into mediation and peace processes. It is something you might think already existed, but that was obviously not the case. Protecting children and having a child's perspective is incredibly important in itself, for the freedom of the individual, but it is also a powerful tool in all preventive work – not least when it comes to conflicts. However, as we unfortunately see clearly around us, preventive work is far from sufficient. Therefore, conflict management and peace building are also necessary focus areas. Through our seat in the Security Council, Sweden has played a role in dealing with some of the most difficult crises and conflicts of our time. Several of them have been mentioned today. It concerns the war in Yemen, efforts in Syria, efforts to bring peace to the Horn of Africa and work for the Council to stick to the two-state solution in Israel – the Palestine conflict. The list of Sweden's work for peace and security in the world through the Security Council can be made much longer, but it is all in the letter. I therefore refer to it; it is very interesting reading. Madam President, I would like The climate issue is the greatest issue of our time, and given how it affects people's living conditions and opportunities, it is also one of the greatest security issues of our time. We in the Green Party have been pushing for a long time to draw attention to the link between the climate and its impact on safety. That link has never been clearer than it is now, and it is thanks to the work of the government and Sweden in the Security Council itself that it has come up on the international agenda. It is the Swedish leadership that has enabled the Security Council to agree to clarify the link between security and climate change throughout its work. We know that this is a changed climate, and the consequence of it, on which a future security policy needs to be based. We are already seeing people being forced out of their homes because of climate change and how wars and conflicts spread in the wake of drought. The fact that this link has now been made in the Security Council means a lot to the world's overall climate work, and it would never have happened if Sweden hadn't pushed on. It is thanks to the efforts of Sweden and the Government to highlight in all fora the clear link between climate change and security policy that the issue is now anchored on the Security Council agenda, and it sends a clear signal to all the UN institutions: the climate issue is the major security issue of our time. It is only by meeting the threat of a changed climate – by reducing the impact, reducing emissions and making climate adjustments – that we strengthen the communities affected and can reduce the security risks involved. The Government's letter also addresses many other areas where additional work has been done, many of which are incredibly important. It is about peace operations, humanitarian issues, accountability and, not least, the protection of civilians. It goes without saying to us environmental partners that human rights are universal. They shall apply to everyone, at all times and across all national borders. That Sweden has been part of the Security Council for two years, which has given us a clear platform to push for feminism, peace and climate justice globally, we are incredibly proud of. The whole list of the letter – the starting points of the bottom plate, thematic areas, geographical areas and everything else – is in itself proof that a small Nordic, sparsely populated country can actually bring about global change. It also strikes me as extremely intensive, targeted and competent our officials and representatives have worked on this, and I agree with the thanks that have been expressed to all those who have worked before, during and after our time in the Council. Despite the major challenges in the functioning of the UN system and the Security Council, this gives me some hope for the future. If the political will exists – and it is incredibly important to emphasise that if the political will is there – and the tools are in place, the international community can do great things. That is something that is really needed to meet the challenges ahead. I support the proposal in the report.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-289	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I am, of course, very pleased about this opportunity to debate Sweden's member cap in the Security Council during 2017-2018 in this House. It was two intense and rewarding years in the midst of world politics. It was, of course, also two frustrating years when differences of opinion between permanent members prevented the Council from reaching an agreement. We wanted to contribute from the outset to a Security Council that can assume its responsibilities under the UN Charter and maintain peace and security internationally. We wanted to contribute to a Security Council that could better face the new risks and threats of our time, such as the link between climate change and security. We also wanted to contribute to a more open and inclusive Security Council work in which those affected by the crises and conflicts of our time – women, young people and representatives of civil society – are heard. In Stockholm we had monthly briefings for the Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee; so there were plenty of opportunities to present suggestions and ideas. We have held regular meetings with civil society and Swedish expertise in both government agencies and academia, and we published weekly newsletters about the work in the Council on the Government's website. In New York, we continuously engaged international civil society and worked constantly to ensure that representatives of civil society could participate in the Council. The UN representation also published ongoing video blogs from the Council's work. Perhaps the most important thing was to involve civil society in the countries on the Council's agenda. For the first time, we had as many female briefers to the Security Council as we had male. I would like to express my special thanks to all those who have contributed to Swedish membership and especially to civil society – your input, your support, your pressure and your efforts were central. Has Sweden succeeded in its work in the Security Council? That question has two answers. My first answer is that Sweden has succeeded, because we have stood up for our principles and values in a turbulent era. All of Sweden's work in the Security Council has been based on the cornerstones of Swedish diplomacy: international law, human rights, gender equality and a humanitarian perspective. Our work has been permeated by the fundamental realization that peace and security concern everyone. Women must be given a place at the negotiating table. By protecting children today, we are preventing tomorrow's conflicts. We focused on climate-related security risks, and we countered further declines in some of the most difficult crises of our time in Yemen, Myanmar, North Korea and, indeed, Syria. We managed the confidence shown by UN Member States by electing Sweden to the Security Council. We have, not least, dared to be uncomfortable with the permanent members of the Council with a principled attitude and by keeping the elected members together properly. My second answer to the question as to whether Sweden has succeeded in the Security Council is a counter-question: can any individual member of the Security Council succeed as long as the Security Council as a whole does not fully assume its responsibilities and as long as it uses the veto as it has done? However, the fact that the UN Secretary General António Guterres described Sweden as a bridge builder in the Security Council when the Council visited Dag Hammarskjöld's farm in Backåkra last April illustrated that Sweden made a difference. Another illustrative example is the thanks for our work in the Council that our UN ambassador received from Malian women's organisations during a visit to the country. That can also be said. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The work on membership of the UN Security Council was presented in the letter to Parliament presented on 11 April and debated here today. I have to show it, because it's just as if it didn't exist. It is 161 pages and, if I may say so, is a very solid description of the work that has been done in various committees and other things, both geographically and thematically. That is what we should be discussing, and I hope that we can continue to discuss it. We want to summarise the issues dealt with by the Security Council during these two years, how Sweden contributed to the work and also what challenges there were. We are in favour of an independent assessment of membership; we have been all along. We thought that Parliament itself wanted to do so, but when Parliament now wants the government to take responsibility for this evaluation, we welcome the committee's proposal. This has also been done in the past when Sweden has been a member of the Security Council. Of course, among the issues I would like to highlight are the agenda for women's peace and security. Thanks to the fact that we have been so active on this issue, the Security Council was able to sharpen the tone of sexual and gender-based violence, for example by introducing completely new sanction criteria on this issue. Swedish initiatives led to more equal mandates for UN peace efforts. The mandates underline more clearly the contribution of women to peace and security and call for women to be given space in political processes. Let me also mention Syria. At our entry into the Council, Sweden was given special responsibility for the humanitarian situation in Syria. Perhaps the most important result of this role is that we led the work on the resolutions that enabled millions of Syrians to continue to receive humanitarian emergency aid such as food, water and fuel. One can evil itself over resolutions and say that they last an hour or so, but they raise the price of warlike action. Moreover, they are often a response to what civil society demands. The resolution for which we were responsible, which was mentioned here, came into being in precisely that way – in response to civil society's demands for those in need in Syria. Another issue is Yemen. Sweden is working very hard to increase the Council's commitment. We supported UN envoy Griffiths's efforts to descalate and resume peace talks. It eventually became a Stockholm agreement in December 2018. I believe that this was due very much to the work we have done in the Security Council. Another example is Myanmar. We worked from day one to draw the Council's attention to the alarming situation of Rohingyes. It was not easy, but we got the Security Council to express concern with a common voice. The Security Council also visited Myanmar, and a UN envoy was appointed. The total cost has been discussed. I must say that there is nothing more to investigate in terms of costs. The Foreign Affairs Committee has received every single number. Everything has been reported, including to the committee's own investigators. Every number is fully accounted for. Nothing is darkened or hidden in any way. The committee has received this report and, of course, it should be included in an assessment. The cost mentioned is SEK 65 million over a period of two and a half years. That corresponds to the budget we have had for this. It also represents less than 1% of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' administrative appropriations during this period, and it has really helped to sharpen the work of the Foreign Service. We are transferring our experience from the Security Council to current and future members of the Security Council. For example, Germany has openly committed itself to pursuing the issue of women, peace and security – about women, peace and security. We know that there is a continuation of many of the issues we have been involved in. The Nordic-Baltic perspective is needed. That is why we are now giving support to Estonia and Norway, which want to enter the Security Council. Now I have listened to many contributions. I have to say one thing: I am incredibly proud of Sweden. I am proud that, against all odds, we managed to enter the UN Security Council. I am proud of the work we have done there. I'm proud of our diplomats. Thank you to all of you who have realised that and also expressed a thank you from here! There have been 915 meetings during this time. In addition, there have been 115 resolutions, 180 press statements and 48 Presidency statements. There is also practical daily work. These are the issues mentioned in the letter I am now holding up. It is about the African Union, Burundi, Eritrea, Gambia, Mali, Somalia, Myanmar, North Korea, Cyprus, Kosovo, Georgia, Ukraine, Colombia, Haiti and so on. It is about work on sanctions committees. It is about working with children in armed conflict, where we have led a job and been chairman. We have done all of this. I have to say that I am incredibly proud of it, because I think it also makes us a safer country. We work with so many countries. We make our values clear in this work. Can't we be a little proud, too? It would have been nice to hear it from more people. As we now discuss concrete ways of continuing to contribute to UN efforts and peace-building work, I think we can emphasise this. And perhaps at last, Madam President, it is about getting better at explaining what is actually at stake: cooperation for peace according to clear rules that apply to everyone or an international order that is characterised by the power of the strong, uncertainty, short-term interests and unpredictability. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank all the members of the committees, particularly in the Foreign Affairs Committee, for the pleasant debates. I also want to wish everyone a nice summer.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-320	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by welcoming the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is involved in the debate and, above all, the work that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has done within the framework of Sweden's time in the UN Security Council. The UN is our most important global player for Sweden's foreign policy. This work has therefore been extremely important for Sweden. In 2015, when I am fairly confident that Margot Wallström was involved, the UN's 17 global goals for sustainable development, known as Agenda 2030, were adopted. Through Agenda 2030, the world's countries have committed themselves to reducing poverty, eradicating hunger, increasing equality, creating gender equality and halting climate change. Our world today is incredibly unequal. While the super-rich live in a completely different world from the rest of us, there are still very many people living in extreme poverty and in need of daily humanitarian aid. By putting Agenda 2030 at the top of our agenda, both locally and regionally, but also for our work in the EU and the UN, together we can reduce the world's injustices and create a better world. This summer is the first high-level meeting in July. Then there will be a new high-level meeting at the UN in September. I wonder, Minister for Foreign Affairs, what initiatives the government intends to take at these meetings to put Agenda 2030 at the top of the agenda in the UN and in the world at large. And what can Sweden as a country do together to counteract global inequality?
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-325	Madam President, I would like The most important thing, of course, is to set an example, to show how we try to make our policies interrelated, how we act in international contexts, that we use aid and development policies in combination with foreign policy, that we work for both equality and equality, and that the economic, environmental and social aspects are interrelated. I think it will also be a lot about how we deal with the global climate issue and that climate and security will be issues that rest over everything else that we do. But it is also important that we show, with domestic policy, that we are prepared to take the initiative and take the lead. We are happy enough to have our UN ambassador, who will play an important role in this work and at the high-level meeting.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-328	Madam President, I would like I think that Sweden often does a very good job in this area. However, when Mrs Wallström says that you should set an example, I still get a little worried. Yesterday we had a budget debate here in the Swedish Parliament. There we debated precisely the increase in inequality that the Left Party sees and how the Social Democrats have actually begun to go that way. For example, we see the removal of the military tax, a tax that we have had for over 30 years in Sweden – 5 percent extra in tax for those who have the highest income in Sweden. If you are to take the leadership shirt also globally, you need to raise issues of tax evasion, which we know is a major problem for middle-income countries and rich countries, but above all for poor countries. There is also a need to discuss how the gaps are widening and separating. There is a risk that we think that as long as we stick well with Bill and Melinda Gates, so that they create assistance and distribute their incredible resources, and do it with all the other super-rich in the world we get a better world. But the problem is that we even got there, that individuals have so much power and such enormous income that their economies are bigger than the economies of individual countries. At the same time, we have extremely poor and vulnerable countries that we must constantly stand up for with the world's humanitarian aid. We often describe it as providing a lot of assistance, and we do so from the Swedish side. This year we are not quite up to 1%. That is 0.98 percent because they removed 700 000 SEK from the government's aid budget. But there is actually more money coming from people who come from other countries, who work in Sweden or other countries and send money home to their relatives. As a result, world aid is far too small in relation to needs. That is why we need to speed up to help the people who are the toughest.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-332	Madam President, I would like I don't have a different view of reality and I don't do any other analysis. The great concern around the world today is that there are growing gaps. The OECD, large banks and all analysts know that increasing the gap does not create any good societies. Unfortunately, however, we also have a parliament with a majority which does not share that view and which also makes proposals and forces us to make compromises in areas where we would not always like it, at least not as Social Democrats. It is worrying when we are forced to make such compromises, but unfortunately the alternative is much worse. That's why we have to do the best we can. I do not think we have anything to be ashamed of when it comes to our development policy or how we act around the world. There we usually get very high grades from those who assess our policies, so I think we should continue along that path. But even here in Sweden, the focus should be on reducing the gaps between people also economically, just as we need to reduce the gaps between city and country. This will make it easier to create a good society for all.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-336	Madam President, I would like I was not going to start like this, but I note that the Foreign Minister feels compelled to do something. I was a little surprised to hear that. I thought it was a free choice for all parties to reach an agreement such as the January agreement. Madam President, I would like I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is proud to refer to the letter on Sweden's membership of the UN Security Council. I have read it and can note that it is full of pride in its own results. That is precisely why we want to look at the cards, Madam President, and see a truly independent evaluation of all the time in the Security Council in order to be able to make a valuation. It sounds very much like all good has been achieved from the Swedish side, and very little of the problems and failures are highlighted. You need to see both sides in order to learn lessons for the future. Therefore, it would have been welcome if the letter had had a little more self-criticism in its image. Madam President, I would like One issue that I would like to highlight is, of course, how the relationship has been in Parliament, because it has not been simply. Then I am not thinking of the historic Security Council campaign, but I am thinking of what our dialogue has been like. I note in the letter that there have been dialogues with the other Member States, consultations and dialogue with representatives of civil society and experts, and then there is Parliament. It clearly describes the picture. The Parliament has been informed and there have been presentations, but it has not been a dialogue. This picture has also marked the relationship in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I wonder why, Madam President.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-341	Madam President, I would like But we have come regularly to brief and listen to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Every month you have had every opportunity to say: Please, drive these questions! The only person I can remember who, during this period, made concrete proposals on substantive issues that we should be pursuing was Birgitta Ohlsson, as long as she remained in Parliament. Otherwise, it has been quiet. We haven't heard any suggestions. Instead, you have remained in the campaign and are still part of it. We have highlighted problems in this letter, and it goes without saying that, in such a difficult world situation as we have, the work is characterised by the most important issue, namely the war in Syria, which is now in its ninth year. We describe just how difficult it is to use the veto in the Security Council. But we're here as soon as you invite us, or we've had you with us. Haven't we had a dialogue? The dialogue must be about sending information in both directions. I think it's a little unfair to say that, Kerstin Lundgren, because I mean that there have been all the possibilities. We invited you to discuss how we would bring these issues out even when we started work on this. I think, as I said, that it is unfair, and there is still a lack of what it is in fact you think we should have done better. Can you give some examples, Kerstin Lundgren? According to the UN Charter, the issue of veto belongs in the General Assembly, not in the Security Council.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-346	Madam President, I would like This is characteristic of the relationship between the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As Fredrik Malm mentioned, we had to fight to get into the Jäger cabinet and see the secret papers on the Security Council campaign. That's how it started. After many ifs and buts, we made a suggestion on how to solve this lengthy story, and it was that we would be able to come and read secret papers sitting in a room together. Madam President, I would like It is clear to readers of the letter that the programme of presidents for the coming month, informed about Sweden's membership through current weekly newsletters, had presentations from current officials and answered any questions. This shows that a dialogue has been informed but not sought. Compare with civil society! In a dialogue, the Minister for Foreign Affairs had heard the proposals that were made and which are also reflected in the reservations contained in the report. Madam President, I would like The Secretary of State is constantly saying that we have not made any proposals. The main problem, however, is that the Foreign Minister has not listened and sought dialogue. It has been a sad part of this work. I hope that in the coming years there will be more dialogue and not just information.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-349	Madam President, I would like This is deeply hurtful. I, my cabinet secretary and my staff have been on the Foreign Affairs Committee regularly every month. Has anyone stopped you, Kerstin Lundgren, from asking anything, making comments and having ideas? Has anyone on the Foreign Affairs Committee stopped you? Why else do you keep saying these terrible things? We have in every way committed ourselves to the Foreign Affairs Committee and answered all the questions. Both the Constitutional Committee and you have investigated this, and we have shown you all the figures. The Foreign Affairs Committee has seen everything. We've been in different meetings, and we've been welcoming you all along. I'm sorry to have to say it, but I think it's a bit of a hard time saying the fox over this. What we are losing here is a discussion of the issues at stake. Give me one or two examples of things that you were not allowed to say, Kerstin Lundgren, and which were suggestions for what we s hill have done in the Security Council! This is sad, because we have really invited and always said that we want the ideas with us. We have received it from civil society, and we have had a format for it every month. There is so much for the Foreign Affairs Committee and Sweden to follow up on substantive policy. There is so much we need to continue to work for here at home, in the European Union and in the UN context.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-354	Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Foreign Minister for taking part in this debate on the Security Council. However, there are many issues in the report that do not concern the Security Council. We could discuss them for an eternity, and we will certainly have reason to do so another time. However, I was going to focus on something that I and another Member mentioned in the speaker's chair, namely Israel – the Palestine conflict. A number of years have passed since Sweden, against the government's own directive on the recognition of an independent state, chose to recognise the state of Palestine. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs believe that the opportunity for Sweden to act for peace and security in this region has improved since then?
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-357	Madam President, I would like Yes, I think it was the right decision to make, and we are joined by 135 other countries in the world that have made a similar assessment. If you want a two-state solution, which is what the EU is advocating and which also includes UN Security Council resolutions, you must create the conditions for the Palestinians to act in a political way and, of course, to live up to all the obligations that come with it. We thought there would be strong reactions from Israel, as we have seen. We have wanted to be used as a deterrent. Unfortunately, there is no peace process today. However, in the EU context, we are working consistently to maintain the EU's agreed Middle East policy of 2009. We are working with other countries, and some of them are now considering recognising Palestine because they see that developments are going in the wrong direction. We are committed to all those countries that are interested in reaching a peace settlement and getting something that is balanced and that supports the two-state solution. I would also like to thank you, Markus Wiechel, for saying in your introduction that you are proud of Sweden and what we have accomplished. It is an important signal to everyone who has worked hard for this.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-361	Madam President, I would like I think we have done a lot that is good, although not everything is, of course, positive. But it is important to lift up both the positive and the negative. As far as my original question is concerned, I did not note a clear answer as to whether the recognition has enabled Sweden to be a more active party to the peace process. On the other hand, I noted that the Foreign Minister remains committed to recognising Palestine. After all, I and many with me believe that the government's action in this conflict is very one-sided, to the detriment of Israel – something with which the Israelis agree. My question therefore remains: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs really mean that our ability to act as a peacekeeping force has improved since Sweden recognised Palestine as an independent state? Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to wish the Foreign Minister and all those whom I did not mention in the speaker's chair a happy summer.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-366	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, there is no ongoing peace process. Unfortunately, we are now waiting for an American proposal which everyone fears will only drive the development in a negative direction. I believe that this has given us the opportunity to talk to the Palestinians and also, as we always do, to express respect for Israel's need for security. If you do not understand this, you will never understand the conflict either. We're not for one side. We are in favour of a two-state solution, and we continue to argue for it. It must then be acknowledged that Palestine has the right to a state and that this is the only way to make the two countries live side by side in peace and security and with respect for one another. We are in no way against Israel; on the contrary, we are a friend of Israel. We will continue to assert their needs in order to achieve a two-state solution. We are working very actively on this issue in both the European Union and the United Nations, and we are doing this based on international law and on what has been a recognised position from the European Union since 2009. These are our positions. Then we push for it to hopefully be an active peace process.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-369	Madam President, I would like I would also like to express my thanks to all the staff who have contributed to Sweden's efforts during membership of the Security Council. I know a lot of people have worked hard and made amazing contributions. Parliament's task is to review the government, and that is precisely why we from the opposition are pushing certain questions. One issue that we come back to all the time is the accounting of the costs of the campaign. Since we have not understood that we have received a full answer, we continue to pursue this question. It is not only we who have raised this issue, but also the Constitutional Committee. There are other bodies, which is why I hope that we will now have a united parliament that supports the committee's position on an independent evaluation. I hope that the government will ensure this independent evaluation as soon as possible and that we will thus receive a report here in Parliament. I would like to highlight one more question in my speech here. This is about the UN's function. The UN is important – there is no doubt or difference. Sweden has done a lot – there is no difference either – but I want to point out that, when I have read in the letter, I cannot see what Sweden has done to push for reforms within the UN. A seat in the Security Council is, of course, an opportunity to push for a reformed UN that can become more capable of action and thus have a greater mandate to work for peace and human rights. It is both a question of working on the ground and of ensuring that the results achieved can be maintained.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-373	Madam President, I would like This is a good issue of reform and veto, which I know is of great interest to many. We have really pursued these issues, and this is clear from sections 3 and 13 of the letter. It is about improving the working methods of the Security Council and also about cutting the veto and limiting the use of vetoes, but this is done in the General Assembly, not in the Security Council. It has to do with the Charter. We participate in various groupings, mainly the Nordic countries, where we discuss various proposals to limit the use of vetoes. In cases where it can lead to crimes against humanity, genocide or crimes of international law, veto should not be possible. So there is a series of groupings where we are active and where we have joined in order to ensure that we move in that direction slowly but surely. However, this is not an issue that is on the Security Council's agenda, but it is happening in the General Assembly and must continue to do so. Otherwise, we have really pushed for reform of the work of the Security Council. One thing we have done very consciously is to try to make sure that we use the elected members to form, so to speak, a counter-force and counterweight in relation to the permanent members and thereby try to prevent the use of vetoes. We have done this in a planned way during this time, and in some cases it has proved successful to work much more in that way.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-377	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the President's Office and our Presidents for their cooperation and work during the year. I would also like to wish the Secretary of State a pleasant summer. I would like to say that what is a good question is for us to decide which questions we ask, Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs. There is much that can be done during the Presidency months but also during membership of the Security Council, and that is why I am raising the issue of reforming the UN. It is clear that there are possibilities during that period, and I would have liked to have seen more about this in the letter. It is an extremely important issue in order for a global body such as the United Nations to be able to really work for peace and human rights. This is also the case with the evaluation that is now to be carried out. Ultimately, it is a matter of confidence in politics, and it is a matter of confidence in international bodies, not just from us in this House, but from Swedish society. There we all have a responsibility to ensure that the people have confidence in the work done. I therefore look forward to the evaluation that will come, not only in terms of what has been done but also in terms of the funding of the campaign. This is an important issue that is of great importance, not only to me and the opposition, but to all of us.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-382	Madam President, I would like I think there are few questions that have been examined as much as the question of candidacy. It has been examined by the Foreign Affairs Committee itself and in length, but it was apparently an investigation that was too positive as no one has ever mentioned the latter. It addressed the costs and explained them clearly. There is nothing secret, but you have all the figures reported to you, Margareta Cederfelt. You have also had access to all the material, and both the Constitutional Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee have looked at these issues. But it is good that everything is included in an evaluation. That's what we think, so of course we should do it. I just wanted to be kind and say that I think these were good questions, because when there are issues it is easier to see how we should take things forward and not stay in something that has been discussed much before. I think it is a most respectable view that we should work more on the reforms. We have also done this and been in the Security Council at a time when there came a new Secretary-General, who has tried to reform internal work, that is, what the whole of the UN organisation should look like and what to work with at a time when the budget has become smaller and smaller, including for what we want to do in the field of the UN. That is why this is a very important issue. Sometimes, however, not all our resources and our time are enough to deal with these issues. However, I think it is a most respectable view that it is important to explain even more clearly what we have done to help with the reform work. I agree that confidence in the entire UN system and all the UN efforts has to do with how we have organised the work. We are happy to do so and we are happy to do so in future.
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-391	Ladies and gentlemen! It is now time to round off and sum up a parliamentary year as nothing else in Swedish politics. After a government formation that took 134 days, a new government took place at the shift council at the castle on January 21st. Since then, the usual political work has taken off, but with some new conditions, which have also been reflected in the work of the committees and this House. Autumn's formation of government was a special time in Swedish politics that I think we will all remember. And that is probably not just for us in this House. My neighbors back home in the villa area in Norrköping have stopped taking a Sunday walk in the neighborhood. They're going for a round of Presidents. But it's on me, just like coffee and cookies. Having organized the most protracted formation of Swedish government in the history of Sweden, I was invited to a prize gala to award an award to the Organizer of the Year. You can think about the organizers' judgment. So did I, until I realized that I was the warning example that would make the prize winners appear in so much better light. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me get back to the order! For my part, as President, I have decided on three key words to indicate how I would like the Parliament as an institution to work and develop during this parliamentary term: democracy, the committees and the long-term perspective. When we, as representatives of the Parliament, meet the citizens, I believe that democracy is a given theme. During the parliamentary term, under the heading of the democratic anniversary, we celebrate that it has been 100 years since we introduced universal and equal suffrage for women and men in Sweden. On 17 December 1918, the Riksdag took the decisive and historic decision of principle on the right to vote. It was a decisive step on the road to democracy, and our anniversary began on the day 100 years later. The democracy anniversary will permeate the outgoing activities of the Riksdag as an institution and will not end until 2022, 100 years after the first five women took place in the Riksdag. But you should not just meet the anniversary here on Helgeandsholmen. During the parliamentary term, I and the Vice-Presidents travel to all counties with democracy as their theme. Among other things, we open the Riksdag's hiking exhibition about the anniversary and visit upper secondary schools and higher education institutions. Celebrating democracy also marked Open House in Parliament, the Speaker's spring dinner and my speech on the National Day. Even during many of my missions and those of the Vice-Presidents on foreign affairs, we refer to the anniversary of democracy as a platform for discussing the state of democracy in the world. For example, I and the two Belgian Presidents hosted a seminar in the Belgian Parliament on democracy, when I and a delegation visited Belgium in February. But it is not just the Presidency's responsibility to bear the democratic anniversary. I hope you want to join us. We in this House have a common and special responsibility to hold talks with the Swedish people about democracy yesterday, today and tomorrow. Even at a time like ours, when democracy is being challenged in our country and elsewhere, we have reason to look back on historical victories. But it is also up to us to lay the foundations for the democracy of the future. The second key word, the committees, concerns you Members, parliamentary work and the parliamentary situation. Of course, committees always play a central role in the parliamentary process, but with complicated mandate mathematics, their work is even more central. We need, perhaps more than usual, forms of work that give us both good dialogue and a good decision-making process. I would like to contribute to the strengthening and development of the committees' bureaux, committees and committee offices in this area. For example, a leadership development programme is now under way for the presidents. I believe that leadership in the committees is important for a good working environment and good results. We are also working in the Conference of Presidents to enable committees to learn more from each other, and – I hope – to move towards more uniform forms of work, not least in order to make it easier for Members to move between different committees. With regard to the preparation of ordinary reports, at least 10 out of 15 committees are now working in basically the same way, which is a major change compared to the previous Parliamentary Session. My third key word, as I said, is long-term. This is largely about a general approach to the work of the Riksdag. It concerns all of us, but not least the Swedish Parliament Administration in its work on support for the parliamentary process and parties. We need to look back and consider that we are managing an institution with centuries of history in buildings of great historical value. At the same time, we need to look forward and constantly be ready to develop and change Parliament's work. What requirements does the Riksdag as an institution need to be ready to meet in five or ten years' time? The often large shifts between parties that we see in the elections affect not only the House but also the support that the administration needs to provide and how that support should be designed. This calls for flexibility, but also for a strategic approach. The Swedish Parliament Board decided in March on the strategic plan for the parliamentary administration's work during the parliamentary term. Having strategic planning is part of a long-term approach. The heart of the business – support for the parliamentary process – is an important part of the plan. It is well in line with my ambition to highlight the importance of the committees, but of course it has a broader reference. Security work is also emphasised in the plan. We need to continue to develop, for example, physical security and information security, but also work on continuity planning so that Parliament can continue its activities under all conditions. Another ambition is to develop the relationship between members, party chancellors and the Riksdag administration, so that roles and expectations are clear. This also means that the administration should create a more coherent and coordinated service for all of us. The project's Board of Directors has recently received a start-up permit from the Riksdag Board and will run until 2022, but we will also need to renovate most of Parliament's other buildings over the years thereafter. This means that properties and premises are another important part of strategic planning. Finally, the plan emphasises the importance of digitalisation and that we need to put in a higher gear in digitalisation work. Let me also mention a couple of other topical issues. The Swedish Parliament's Board also has this parliamentary term a working group on gender equality. It is led by First Vice-President Åsa Lindestam and Second Vice-President Lotta Johnsson Fornarve as Vice-President. The Swedish Parliament's Board has also adopted an action programme for gender equality. Parliament as an institution should be a role model in the work on gender equality. A parliament with an equal working environment for women and men should be self-evident. I am convinced that this is also what the voters expect. In this connection, I would also like to stress the importance of the commitment of both women and men to creating an equal parliament. Furthermore, the Riksdag Board has recently supported a review of certain issues relating to members' remuneration. It is urgent that Members from all over the country have the opportunity to carry out their duties throughout the Swedish Parliament in a good way, and I will continue to defend that Members should receive compensation for travel and accommodation. At the same time, compensation systems must be legitimate and balanced, and it must be a matter of course that everyone follows the rules that apply. Violation of the rules risks damaging confidence in the Riksdag and the members of the Riksdag on a general level, which is very serious. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll have to start rounding off a little more personal note, so just between us. I think we each have our own story about how we experienced the long political autumn 2018. About a hundred of you Members are new since the elections. You would begin to learn the parliamentary work and begin to shape your duties as members in a situation when the Riksdag did not work in the usual way. I have heard from many of you that you felt that it was a strange time. I also know that someone came in a little later in the autumn in Parliament and carried out their very first vote on 14 November when we tried my first proposal to Prime Minister here in the Chamber. Undoubtedly a little special introduction to parliamentary service. I would like to say that I am impressed by the commitment and energy that you have shown during your first year in Parliament in these special circumstances. For me, of course, September 24 was a very special day. I am still humbly grateful that I then got the confidence of the House to be the Speaker of Parliament. What I did not realise on 24 September when the club fell on the table was that immediately after the election of the President, I lost my right to vote in this House. Suddenly someone else came in and was going to sit on my chair on the East Götta bench, namely my esteemed replacement John Widegren. It was a little shocking, I admit. I was quickly cleared of the Chamber and suddenly stood in a corridor behind it while you continued the Chamber sitting. Between us I can say that it felt a bit like I had ended up in the movie Love Actually. I'm sure many of you have seen it. You know the scene when Hugh Grant has just become prime minister and comes to 10 Downing Street for the first time. He's stepping in. There's all the employees in a row, and he'll be introduced to them. I was in the hallway. There was a row of people who said, "Hey, we're your staff." Well, hey, I said. Now you're going to give a speech and unveil Urban Ahlin's portrait, they said. We've written your speech, please. Oh, I said, thank you. And here's Urban Ahlin. Well, hey, I said. Hey, he said. So we went to the bonding track. What else is, to paraphrase Hamlet, is government formation. Ladies and gentlemen! It was my first experience this autumn. To conclude, I would like to thank each of you for your work in Parliament during this unusual Parliamentary meeting. I would also like to extend warm thanks to the Speaker's Bureau, the Director of Parliament and all members of the Parliament's administration for their very good cooperation. The parliamentary administration has 670 employees in a wide range of professional areas, and they are all important for the performance of parliamentary work. The employees of the Party chancellors are necessary for the political work to be carried out – a thank you also to you. Now comes a lovely summer time. I would like to take this opportunity to wish you all a happy, sunny and rich summer with Evelyn Lindström's words in the song. With open eyes let us look at the wealth of life that sprouts and simmers wherever spring blooms! ..................................................... Thank you!
i-863dbcc9ee61cc82-422	Mr President, I would like to Given the warm applause, I would not really have had to say anything. On behalf of all Members, I would first of all like to express my thanks to the parliamentary staff and to the Vice-Presidents. I would also like to thank the President of the House. It's been a pretty strange year for all of us, and I've got, as an age president, a few to compare with. Many are new to the Riksdag, and others have been given new tasks. That also applies to the President. On Thursday 26 September, the President opened individual talks with representatives of the parliamentary parties. There were many rounds, many conversations and a lot of coffee. It became a bourgeois budget. It was Christmas. It had time to be New Year's. Only on 16 January was the President able to present a proposal to Parliament for a new government composed of representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The President has also been outside Stockholm, visiting Finland and Norway. It has been a Brussels visit and a European Union spokesperson conference in Vienna. The Speakers of Latvia, Iceland and Armenia respectively visited the Speaker of the Riksdag. It has been held Open House, there have been European elections and, of course, very many debates in this House. In a few days we celebrate Midsummer in Sweden. Midsummer is perhaps the most beloved weekend in Sweden. I hope that the President will have both herring and some cake. But above all, I and the Members of this House wish the President and his family a really nice and relaxing summer. Thank you for this year! I'll see you in the fall again.
