i-444d246a996643ff-3	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all the reservations of the Moderates, but for time-winning, I only agree to reservation 9 under paragraph 4, which deals with resource allocation. Sweden is a fantastic country, where education is free of charge. There are many opportunities to study the most varied courses at Sweden's various universities. There are 15 state universities, 16 state colleges and 5 artistic colleges. There are also 14 individual training providers. In Sweden there are 400 000 students at our universities and 75 500 employees, i.e. a considerable number of students and staff. There are everything from short-term training programmes to long-term vocational training programmes. The Government writes in the 2016 Research Bill that Sweden's ambition is to be one of the top knowledge nations in the world. It points out the importance of the education having a high level of what is good for research, higher education and community building and that we should strengthen the whole of society with our educations. There are therefore high expectations of our training programmes. Madam President, I would like A very important issue is the allocation of resources. In April 2017, the Steering and Resource Investigation, which is abbreviated Strut, was appointed. In February 2019, a report was submitted and is now being referred. At the end of June, you should return with the referral. From the Moderates' side, we believe that higher education institutions' resource allocation systems should pay more for academic quality and throughput with a degree at the university and have a connection to establishment in the labour market. We also think that the resource allocation system should be based to a greater extent on quality rather than quantity. What does it look like at our various universities? When I say... higher education institutions... I mean both higher education institutions and universities. The number of students is increasing. The throughput is increasing, but unfortunately a lot of people are dropping out of their programs. During the previous academic year, the longer programmes left three quarters until the next academic year. It can vary from 60 to 100 per cent how many are left on the programmes. At the lowest level it is on programs that have a two-year university degree, followed by the subject teacher programme. The highest level, with up to 96 percent remaining, is in the psychotherapist program and the medical program. Madam President, I would like It is also seen that men drop out of their education to a greater extent than women do, especially when they attend women-dominated training courses such as pre-college or nursing training. Social background, on the other hand, does not play a role in the tendency to drop out of studies. Unfortunately, you can also see that the degree rate is a little lower on many programs, because students drop out during the education or do not finish their education. It is as little as 22 percent that is finished with two-year university degree programmes, which is, of course, a frighteningly low figure. We hope that this is not a downward trend, but unfortunately we see from several courses that it takes longer to complete and fewer graduates. This, of course, is a trend that must be broken, and it is of course urgent to do so. Control and management are important. We want to streamline governance, so that we can invest more in higher education and research itself and not so much around, as it is right now. We also want to see increased collaboration between universities. One can work together in terms of educational offerings, dimensioning and educational programmes, and also in terms of research. Several higher education institutions have since a study a few years ago joined forces and created larger university or university programmes, but more can do this. Even if you do not go together, it is important to be able to work together in several areas. We also want to see a higher quality. It is important to be able to compare different educations. When applying for an education, it can be good to see what kind of education there is and, for example, how many teacher-led hours you have. You might want to see a quality evaluation. You might want to see how systematic the work is to make the students feel comfortable at the place of study. They also want to see if it is a good learning environment and if they have a chance to establish themselves in the labour market after education. This is something we want to strengthen. A survey has been carried out to see how you can get a wider admission. Among those who have a study-motivated environment since before, for example with parents who are educated in higher education, 50 percent more are studying in higher education than among those who do not. Gender, foreign background, sexual orientation and disabilities can prevent you from choosing to study at a university or university. Several universities are working on this. For example, Malmö University works very much to recruit at primary school and also to make it easier for students who have some form of disability to participate in studies and complete their studies. This must increase. The Moderates see that there is something that needs to be speeded up quite a bit. The number of students with any form of diagnosis is increasing. They apply to college and, of course, want to get through their education and get a degree. Preventive work and help in places of study are important. I still think that Sweden holds a very high class at its university and higher education programmes. But we need to speed up these improvements, which need to happen. Otherwise, we will soon be surrounded on both the inside and the outside by all other international educations.
i-GPMwZ2m43YZxfzMzqCP38i	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of paragraph 10 of the UbU13 report. A student, Connie Dickinson, received two thirds of her tuition fee back in 2018 because her education did not meet the standards. It would have been a mess. She went to Mälardalen University. Madam President, I would like It's not often I get upset. I'm pretty refined these days. But when I heard that Mälardalen University was in the middle of being upgraded to university, I was upset. Is this the criterion of being upgraded to universities – to keep the quality of the courses so low that the students receive their tuition fees back through the courts? In that case, it is a scandal and something we will object to if we have the chance to do so. Another frightening thought: Connie Dickinson's fellow students had the education paid for by the state. Of course, no money will be paid back. But their education was as poor as Dickinson. The difference was only that it was Swedish taxpayers who were responsible for the cost. Let me be clear. I want the government to pay for higher education. Everyone benefits from it in the long term. I think that Sweden's system is superior to many other systems we have in the Western world. I'll be very clear about that. But then the educations had to be much higher than the Dickinson and her fellow students. A villain in the drama Connie Dickinson is the focus of quantity instead of quality in the higher education system, which the previous speaker was a bit concerned with. Almost everyone is going through theoretical higher education. It is seen as the height of social development. At the same time, we train many students to become unemployed, at least in certain theoretical higher education programmes. What Connie Dickinson wanted was to attend an adequate education that met the standards of quality. Yeah, she even paid for it. But she did not get what she paid for because it is more important to squeeze in as many students as possible than to maintain adequate quality of education. It is a wrong policy. If you don't believe that, ask Connie Dickinson, who today is called Askenbäck's last name. At the same time as we push students into theoretical higher education, the labour market screams for skilled labour. We should all help to upgrade vocational training. I am mainly addressing the left side here. It is not ugly or less worthwhile to go to vocational education than to take a theoretical education. I wish that more politicians and parties would emphasise this. We also need to review the admission system for certain courses. It is all too well known that students have entered the teacher training course with horribly low results on the university exam. We just had a presentation on that in committee. We need to remedy this, at least if Connie Dickinson and her fellow sisters are to be able to attend full training in the future. Relatively simple measures that we advocate are to reduce the proportion of students who come in through the university test of certain educations, such as teacher education. They are the ones who drop out of teacher training. Admission tests can be introduced on the courses where this is relevant. I am also thinking here of teacher training. In our opinion, these measures must be taken if we are to get the right balance on quality. Gender equality, how do we see it in SD? Let me be very clear on this point. The best for a position, job or professorship should have the position whether it is a woman or a man. We're in favour of meritocraty. I've been training to say that word. In principle, there is talk of quotas for women for professorships these days. We are against any form of quota. I think the gender differences will even out with time. If Connie Dickinson and her sisters only get a good education, they will compete with success in all academic positions. Women are already overweight in most academic positions. What we are strongly opposed to is the gender science that is not based on scientific foundations and which is now being imposed on all kinds of subjects and courses. No one in here would give Flat Earth Society a place at our higher education institutions. Then, I mean, not destructive theories that claim that there are no biological differences between men and women should also have a place at our universities. Could it be that the pervasive gender ideology is one of the reasons why Connie Dickinson received a poor education? I'll leave the question in the air. Finally, on another issue, Madam President. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that there has been inflation in this with the upgrading of higher education institutions to universities. I was in a little bit on it at first. Just because you call a university university does not improve teaching or research. It is rather the lowest form of populism to only raise a university to a university without objective grounds. It is clear that those who work at a university want to say to their peers and relatives that they are now working at a fine university. But we decision-makers shouldn't worry about that. We should have clear criteria for when a higher education institution is to be raised to a university, and primarily linked to research. Connie Dickinson, for example, had not been the valet of Mälardalen University being called Mälardalen University. Her education would have been just as poor anyway.
i-444d246a996643ff-31	Madam President, I would like We are debating a motion report in which the majority of the committee proposes that the Parliament rejects all motions. We in the Center Party have a number of reservations linked to our movements but also a number of specific opinions. Of course, we're all behind it. However, I would like to support only reservation 59, which deals with the employment relationship of education and training. Madam President, I would like We're approaching graduation hours. Many look forward to putting on the white hat that rests in the closet, singing a song about the student's happy day, and wondering if they have entered the higher education that they have applied for. It is clear that expectations are high for many different reasons. Therefore, it is incredibly important that the range we have at our universities meets the expectations of young people or slightly older people in the education that exists. It is important that we highlight quality. There are a number of challenges in the world of higher education in terms of quality reviews. I had the privilege of attending the Education Committee's meeting just now and taking note of a report on the quality of our teacher training. It is extremely worrying to see the too many points on which criticism is being made. But it also gives the opportunity for those students who apply to the teacher education to focus on the areas of improvement that exist and make a difference there. It is not that what is bad today needs to be bad tomorrow. It is something that you will be working on to put the focus on making those improvements. Whether you as a student look forward to starting a higher education in the autumn that you have applied for or imagine that you might wait a few years, it is important that the way forward is open. We are talking today about higher education. But it is also about different forms of adult education, folk high schools, polytechnics and so on. The fact that we have a fantastic education system in Sweden is something that I am proud of. But we must also keep in mind that in all its parts it is of the quality that it needs. There is also a significant lack of skills linked to the lack of a sufficient number of trained people. Whether we talk about a sufficient number of PhD teachers in teacher training, there is a shortage there. But there is also a lack of training for nurses and teachers. We heard today that there will be 5 000 teachers a year missing. It is clear that it is extremely important how education works. But it is also about what more paths, for example, to the teaching profession that we can politically open in different ways. We in the Center Party have a special opinion on this aspect of teacher training. Linked to the January agreement, it is part of the agreement to review the quality of teacher education but also other parts that we need to do to get more teachers in the Swedish school. Madam President, I would like There are many different things that we need to highlight on a day like this when we talk about higher education. We are talking about study and career guidance. I mentioned the students who are now looking forward to various types of education. We know that study and career guidance is an important part. It should develop in different ways and be offered not only in the time you are in school but not least on Sunday afternoon after the family dinner when you have sat and discussed and thought. In which way should you think ahead? There should be good digital solutions so that you get access to a really good competence there. I know there's access to that. But there is something that needs to be known to more and more students so that you feel that it is something that you can look up in a good way. On the part of the Center Party, we have proposed a number of different elements that need to be made available to an increasing number of people. It may be a matter of slowing up the pace of some educations. It may be that you sometimes offer training at half speed. It may be that you have more and more effective summer months that you can use for in-depth courses and so on. If you want to go in and read our whole exercise, you're welcome to do it. The motion from the Center Party can be found on Parliament's website. I have stayed at the student's perspective, and I think it is incredibly important that we look at how this perspective can also permeate politics in different ways. I have mentioned study and career guidance, accessibility in the form of different course-designed programs, different speeds and so on. It is important to feel that this is an effective part of getting to work as soon as possible. That is why I voted in favour of the reservation on the working life relationship of education and training. It's important that it's connected. Madam President, I would like In the field of higher education, a number of studies have been set up. I'm not going to pre-empt them. I'm not going to go into them. But it is important that we bring in in different ways what I have already talked about – the importance of quality. Another part that I would like to highlight in this context is about how universities get access to assignments when it comes to working with validation in different ways. We need an accelerated validation process, and we need more efficient systems. But there also needs to be incentives for higher education institutions to work with validation in an increasingly better way. There are exciting projects that have also been carried out in other parts of society that higher education could take in and connect to. In civil society in particular, there are examples of exciting validation projects that could be used in a good way. Madam President, I would like I mentioned in the introduction the specific opinions. I would like to talk about what they contain. It is about how to review teacher education, how to become more teachers and how to reform education. It is about supplementary education and how it becomes available. This is another important part where we need to recruit teachers to the Swedish school. It is also about the content of teacher training. There is a part of the special opinion on the importance of having a good teaching of sex and cohabitation education in all teacher training courses so that all teachers feel secure in the contexts where this is brought in. There are quite a few different subjects, and this becomes part of the basic competence. It is also about that we get more special teachers and teachers in Swedish as other languages. As I have said before, there are a large number of challenges for higher education, but I am nevertheless proud that we can have an education that exists throughout the country. However, it needs to be given additional incentives to become even more accessible to more and more people. Here, our learning centres are an important part that should also be highlighted in this context so that distance education and these parts will have the opportunity to develop in the future. Once again, I would like to say that the allocation of resources should provide the conditions for lifelong learning, encourage courses at half speed, distance courses and relevant summer courses as well as premium quality, working life relationship and regional cooperation. I would ask you to accept reservation 59 in paragraph 25.
i-444d246a996643ff-49	Madam President, I would like We have an amazing university in Sweden. It normally costs nothing to study; there is no need for college funds, such as in the United States, or any search for scholarships. The university is largely free to organise its courses and does not get subjects for the first time, as in Hungary, for example, where the ruling party does not like gender studies and simply prohibits them. The Swedish university and the Swedish study aid system give everyone an opportunity to study further. But the opportunity is not used by everyone. Parents' educational background is often crucial for those who choose to continue their studies. If the children of the working class choose to study further, we often choose vocational training, the education that leads to work. Children of well-educated parents are thus the most likely to move on to research. It affects research, of course, and we will come back to this in the next debate. Our education no longer distinguishes between women and men, as it did 100 years ago. All education is open to everyone, but in practice it differs, especially in the higher education system. The Left Party's Party Movement Gender equality in the education sector – from preschool to college, as the name says, contains several proposals to increase gender equality in the education system. Throughout their schooling, students and students make a number of choices between subjects and educations. It is choices that are influenced by social background but which are also influenced by and consolidated gender roles. We have some different gender equality goals that universities will work towards, and we have government agencies that work to support the higher education institutions in their work. Yet gender equality is progressing far too slowly. In the Left Party's motion, we put forward a series of proposals aimed at contributing to the realisation of gender equality in the education sector. As part of the labour movement, the Left Party has been involved in building up the public sector, which includes colleges and their research. The University's task is to convey knowledge and education. It is important for creating prosperity and an open and democratic society. At the same time, there are shortcomings that need to be addressed. There is much to do to increase gender equality at Swedish universities and colleges. For a long time, we have a research and higher education community where most students choose places based on stereotypical gender roles. The professors are mostly Cisman, and Cismans are more likely to advance in positions. Work on gender equality in higher education, research and space activities needs to be intensified. In several areas, it can be clearly seen that the choice of education differs according to gender. For example, as many as 85 per cent of beginners in nursing education were women and 75 per cent of engineers were men. Despite the fact that women are in the majority of basic education, we can see how the proportion of women is falling the higher up in education systems we are looking at. The proportion of female professors is distressingly low, 28 percent. So there is a lot that needs to be done in order for us to have an academy that is for everyone, regardless of gender and regardless of class. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to endorse reservation 20, which deals with students with children. The opportunity to study with children is important both for gender equality and for countering social misrecruitment. Even those who have worked for a few years and supplemented at Komvux must be given real opportunities to study at the university. About one in five students has children. Statistics from the National Board of Student Aid show that 14 per cent of those who study at post-secondary level and have study funding receive supplementary grants because they have children. As many as 80 percent of those who receive the child allowance are women. Especially in education for shortage professions as a teacher and nurse, as many have mentioned here, the proportion of students with children is high. It should therefore be in the interests of both society and higher education institutions that students can complete their education with as few obstacles and interruptions as possible. Few universities, however, have a policy for students with children. There is also no regulation for what is normal teaching time, but there can be mandatory elements, such as exams and seminars, in the evenings and weekends when regular childcare is closed. If we are to get a college for everyone, we also need a college that works for the person who has children. Madam President, I would like The Left Party believes in lifelong learning and wants everyone to have the opportunity to further educate themselves and form themselves later in life. A person's education should not have to be shaped by the choices he made when he was 15 years old and perhaps rejected university qualifications. Then we need a good adult education. One problem in adult education is that the lack of qualified staff is acute. A specific adult teacher training would be a good opportunity for those who want to work with adult education. It would also help to improve the quality of adult education. The Left Party therefore proposes that the possibility of establishing an adult teacher training be explored. The lack of competence in adult education also affects the results in Swedish for immigrants. Having teachers with the right education is usually considered to be a prerequisite for maintaining a high quality of education, but this does not seem to apply to adult education. At the end of this month, the study Strengthened quality and equivalence in komvux for pupils with Swedish as a second language should be completed. The study is tasked with investigating the need for changes in municipal adult education in Swedish for immigrants and SFI in combination with other education and will, among other things, make suggestions on how to increase the competence of SFI teachers. We are, of course, behind our motions in this area too, but I am only in favour of reservation 20. It is about students with children and means that we want all colleges and universities to have a policy for students with children. We also want a gender equality bonus. The Komvux investigation has previously suggested that some higher education institutions should offer a profile against Komvux in their teacher education. This investigation is under referral. With that, Madam President, my hope, as I said, is that we will soon be taking decisions in this House in the direction that we have proposed in our motion, which I am not taking up today, that is to say that an adult teacher's education is introduced so that all students can have a teacher who is trained to teach them.
i-444d246a996643ff-67	Madam President, I would like I'm usually extremely sparse with lines, as you've noticed. They are mostly used for political play. But sometimes you can use them for something sensible, like asking sensible questions that you really wonder about. I reacted when I heard the word Cisman. I think it has become a scolding word, and I do not think that we should have the epithet and scolding against any group in society. That's the first thing I reacted to. Then there was the issue of equality at universities. According to the information I have read, there is a majority of women in virtually all areas, except precisely with regard to the number of professors. According to my information, this is the only area where women are in a minority. There are more women students at higher education institutions, which will have an impact in the future. Girls today have better grades on average in both comprehensive school and upper secondary school. These men seem to be falling for more and more. I wonder if it is purely quotas proposed by the Left Party.
i-444d246a996643ff-71	Madam President, I would like This is the first time I have heard that the word "cisman" is a word of scolding. It's definitely not a word of bark. Being a Cisman simply means being a man who has been born as a man and considered to be a man all his life. So it is the opposite of a transman or trans person who has not been perceived as his or her sex throughout his or her life. That's really the only difference. The reason I chose to use Cisman is that when we look at the university, or the whole of society, we see that it is men who have been born as men, regarded as men and treated as men throughout their lives who have the benefits in society. If the Swedish Democrats want to make life easy for themselves and do not see that there are people with different starting points and conditions, it must stand for that party. From the Left side we see that people have different possibilities depending on who they are and what their background is. On that basis, we are building our policy. On the second issue, it is very easy to see that the higher the education system we come, the fewer women there are. Although there are far more women studying at the university and much more women being examined, not much more women are admitted to doctoral programmes. There are also considerably more men who benefit during doctoral studies. I will come back to that during the debate on research, where it belongs.
i-444d246a996643ff-75	Madam President, I would like Then I've got it right. So men who have changed sex are not over-represented, and they do not have the advantages of men who have not changed sex. I think it's getting a little too weird. Precisely – different groups have different conditions, as the Swedish Democrats have also realised. Then our proposal and our focus is to try to give everyone the same conditions – for example, to give women or other groups with fewer opportunities better opportunities, to invest more resources in socio-economically weak groups. It is to fix the conditions and try to give everyone the same conditions. It is quite another matter to try to influence the outcome, as is done with quotas, sham quotas and a lot of other such things. We clearly mean that we should try to give everyone the same conditions as far as possible. We'll never get all the way through. The world doesn't look like that. If you look out of the university's bubbles, the reality seems to be such that we will always have a little different conditions. But, of course, we will even out the conditions as far as possible. It is a completely different matter, as I said, to try to influence the outcome. It will be unfair to those affected by the quota.
i-444d246a996643ff-79	Madam President, I would like It is only to be noted that the world is not made up of two sexes: men and women. It also means that changing sex is not the only thing you do. You confirm your gender. You can do that. You can also belong to those who do not belong to the gender norm and thus are somewhere in between or belong to both sexes. Then you're not a Cissman or, for that matter, a Cissian like me. Even people who don't consider themselves a man or a woman are on the university, as far as I know. I've met quite a few of them. This shows that the Swedish democrats are here discussing something that in any case Ro bert Stenkvist does not master. Read more about transgender issues before you discuss this discussion! That's my tip. The Swedish University was opened to women in the 1870s. That's about 150 years ago. It was a few years ago, but it has been very slow for women to get anywhere. Men have been quotad at all times. Until the 1870s, only men were quotad into the university. From the 1870s only men were allocated to certain educations. Very few were open to women. Long thereafter, only men were allocated to various services, for they were closed to women. We in the Left Party do not propose quotas at the university. What we are proposing is a university that takes into account that people are different and that the university today benefits men. Because we continue to quota men. Not on paper, but in fact, that's what we do.
i-444d246a996643ff-83	I would remind you that we use both first and last names in the debates.
i-444d246a996643ff-84	Madam President, I would like In order for all patients to have access to high-quality care regardless of where they live in the country, trained healthcare professionals with high skills are required in all parts of the country. In order to achieve a long-term sustainable solution to the supply of skills in healthcare, a combination of efforts is required. The university and education, which are dealt with in the report we are now discussing, have a self-evident role, but also efforts in other committee areas here in Parliament are needed. Reality does not care about boundaries between our committees or appropriations in the state budget. It is all connected, and I would therefore like to try to describe in my speech the whole issue of the provision of skills in health care. Madam President, I would like Care queues are growing. Today, some 90 000 people are waiting illegally for a first visit to a specialist doctor or an operation. In addition, the medical quality and the chances of surviving, for example, severe cancer diagnosis differ depending on where the patient lives in the country. Patients should not have to wait for treatment longer than strictly necessary. Care queues put the condition at risk of worsening, and at worst it leads to death. Modern healthcare is hugely knowledge-intensive and complex. There are high demands on education and training. Costly high-tech equipment is becoming an increasingly heavy cost item for the principals, as well as new innovative treatment methods and more efficient medicines. For healthcare to be efficient and patient-safe, therefore, there is a need for a high tax burden, sufficient patient data and professional management and governance that promotes research, development and further training. Many county politicians, or regional politicians as they are called today, have a very difficult, if not impossible, task when it comes to improving health care. They are under strong economic pressure without adequate opportunities to follow up and analyse their activities in depth. Many small regions, with a few hundred thousand inhabitants, are often too small to mobilize the exceptional governance that is needed. It is thanks to a professional, loyal and hardworking staff that the most severely ill patients generally receive good care. However, many regions find it difficult to recruit and retain staff, and the shortage of nurses and specialist doctors becomes evident. Care queues are growing and the risk of overcrowding is increasing. The human suffering will be great and patient safety will be threatened. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats are convinced that our outdated health organisation with 21 equal regions, that is to say 21 different principals, makes care unequal and contributes to the shortcomings that we see in health care. We therefore want the state to take over responsibility for health care. Then resources such as health professionals and medical equipment can be used much better than they do today. And above all, the conditions for everyone, regardless of where in the country they live, to receive medical care of the highest quality. A headship reform is necessary, but it is complex and will require considerable investigative work. It will take time, but we politicians cannot wait passively while we see that the care queues are growing. Therefore, in order to secure the supply of skills pending the reform of the headquarters, it is important to create an attractive working environment so that the competent health care provider stays within the profession. Skills development and clear career paths are important steps here. However, in order to ensure the supply of skills, it is of course also crucial that we have an appropriate dimensioning of training places in different health professions. Then we're back on campus. In particular, there is a need for training places in maternity care, psychiatry and certain specialist nursing skills. In addition, in order to secure the overall picture, we believe it is important to introduce national coordination and long-term planning of training places within the healthcare professions. We Christian Democrats believe that it is crucial to cope with future skills provision in health and long-term care. Madam President, I would like The school is another area where it is crucial to secure the supply of skills. According to the Swedish Association of Teachers, Sweden is estimated to lack more than 65 000 teachers in 2025. In order to recruit motivated people into the teaching profession, the school must become a more attractive workplace. The working environment and working conditions must be improved. The ability to make a career and faster pathways into the teaching profession are also important factors. Here we see that supplementary education should be shortened to one year's studies so that more already active people with subject knowledge can become teachers more quickly. Researchers at universities and higher education institutions are a professional category which has good subject knowledge and which, after completing educational education, could remedy the acute shortage of teachers, not least in upper secondary education. However, there are currently obstacles for researchers who want to keep research in parallel with a job as a secondary school teacher. In accordance with the Higher Education Act and the Higher Education Ordinance, a clinical researcher at a higher education institution can at the same time maintain a position as a specialist doctor or psychologist in health care. This is called combination employment. However, the state pension agreement only allows this if the service provided by the region is linked to clinical tasks. We Christian Democrats believe that if combining positions could also include upper secondary school and thus services that are not strictly related to clinical tasks, researchers could help to cover the great need for qualified upper secondary school teachers. Madam President, I would like I myself am an associate professor at Karolinska Institutet, and it is in Sweden a privilege that I, who come from a non-academic family, can become a researcher. The academic freedom is absolutely amazing. The free choice of research subject and method is extremely stimulating. My own research aims to develop new drugs for the treatment of alcohol dependence. There are few occasions in the professional life that have been so satisfying as to get together with my research team to compile data, look at the results and see that they actually support our hypothesis and that months of hard work can produce results that can help other people. Madam President, I would like Most people who apply for research do not do so to get a high salary or a fantastic career. But it is not possible to get away from the fact that the lack of job security in academia can be tiring. I myself defended my doctorate in 2002 and got the first permanent job of my life in 2015, i.e. 13 years later. Like most other researchers, I lived on a scholarship for several years, after which I had various shorter employments that were exempted from the Employment Protection Act. I think many people can understand that these uncertain conditions affect many factors in life, not least the future pension, planning around family formation and the possibility of obtaining mortgages, to name but a few examples. In addition, it is rare for a higher education institution to pay the researcher's salary for an indefinite period of employment. We researchers who are not clinicians and therefore cannot have a combination employment therefore often have to fund our entire salary through research grants. Grants are being sought in increasingly tough competition, often run for a short period and cover only parts of their own and doctoral students' salaries as well as costs for research. The effect is that a disproportionate part of working time is spent on applying for research funding instead of actually conducting research. Often you get information from the major donors during the autumn, and only then do you know if you have enough funds to make it through the coming year. In the event of a lack of funding for a period of time, it is not uncommon for the researcher to be dismissed from his permanent position, with a lack of resources as a justification. Madam President, I would like If it were possible to hold a combined employment contract between a higher education institution and a secondary school, this would, above all, remedy the acute shortage of teachers in upper secondary school, but it would also have a number of other positive effects. The link between upper secondary education, higher education and research would be strengthened. The job security of researchers at our higher education institutions would increase, and more PhDs could remain within academia and conduct strategically important research on a part-time basis as they do not risk being made redundant from the higher education institution due to a lack of work during a period with fewer awarded research grants. I think many scientists would be interested in that possibility. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the Christian Democrats' reservation 38 in paragraph 16. I would also like to emphasise that I support all of the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but for time to come I refrain from calling for their approval.
i-444d246a996643ff-102	Madam President, I would like This college report covers many important areas. An important goal and purpose of higher education is not only that we should become better overall as a nation and that we should contribute to research and so on, but also that we should secure our skills, which some colleagues have been thinking about. We have chosen from the Liberals to draw attention to a number of points in this report, inter alia linked to the validation of newcomers' skills and how we can get them into working life more quickly. Unfortunately, with regard to the joint reservation that we have with comrades from some other parties and colleagues in the committee, we are being rejected. Just a week ago, Ekot reported that educated foreign nurses with a foreign degree have to wait up to one and a half years to take the two partial tests required to obtain their nursing degree. Madam President, I would like This is a waste of the skills and resources that come to our country, while at the same time there is a shortage of labour, particularly in the areas of care for the elderly, health care and school. We Liberals believe that the government cannot watch when it is only possible for a prospective nurse to write the test at two universities. The government must intervene actively and ensure that more opportunities are offered to write the test. The government must also help to use the higher education system, the higher education institutions, to contribute to the common welfare. It is about securing the demand for trained nurses and teachers. These are the main assignments that our higher education institutions have. On the question of access to higher education, we have also raised motions for the report on introducing aptitude tests, not least for teacher training. It is clear that we do not get support in committee – unfortunately. But we Liberals maintain that if you want to apply for teacher training, you should pass some sort of aptitude test. It's a question we've been pushing for a long time. Unfortunately, the Swedish Council for Higher Education, UHR, in its recommendation, suggested that the issue should not be moved forward. However, when the aptitude test was carried out in 2016 – 2017, 452 students were considered qualified while 23 were not yet considered suitable and therefore not eligible for the teacher training. Imagine that the small experiment at two universities could show such results. This shows that there is actually a need for some kind of admission test or aptitude test. Maybe not everyone should attend teacher training. I have visited the university in Jönköping, and they have chosen to permanently include an aptitude test. It has been said itself that it increases motivation. Those who apply are more motivated than others, and they sharpen up when they come to teacher training. It is not that they take the chance and apply for several courses; if they do not enter law school, they jump into teacher education and then see how it goes. Madam President, I would like Why is this important? Well, we Liberals have also raised motions on the quality and content of teacher education. Representatives of the University Chancellor's Office visited the Education Committee today. They claim they can't affect the search pressure. But we politicians can influence the search pressure, and principals who run schools at local level can influence the attractiveness of the teaching profession. We signal respect for teachers, teachers' powers and salaries. This way the search pressure can be raised. What we can influence at higher education institutions and higher education is the quality and throughput of teacher education. Not least in the light of the University Chancellor's report, which was preferred today, we see very alarming and worrying figures, Madam President. Half of the teacher training previously studied has been failed. Half of those who have failed have not only a small deficiency but, instead, very serious deficiencies in several areas, so-called assessment bases. It should send a signal of warning to the current government not to continue the irresponsible policy and expansion of places in teacher education and higher education institutions. This autumn it is time for the subject teacher education. There it is really vulnerable, and there are indeed problems with quality – given that subject teacher training has spread in so many areas. We have also raised this point in the report, and here too the Social Democrats reject our proposals for stricter requirements. I call for reservation 48 on the content of teacher training. It is important to review the educational content in favour of more methodology and to review the content so that the students in the teacher education are even better prepared for working life. Despite several quality reforms for teacher education, students still say in surveys from, among others, the Teacher Association that they feel that they cannot handle conflicts in a classroom or that they do not learn enough about the craft of teaching in a classroom. Furthermore, it has emerged in the University Chancellor's Office's harsh criticism that the connection to the scientific basis and research is lacking. This is particularly serious, Madam President. It is completely contrary to the portal clauses of the Higher Education Act. One of the very first paragraphs of the Higher Education Act states that higher education must be conducted in connection with science and proven experience, not least in connection with research. Our teacher training doesn't. Why are we liberals so involved in the issue of teacher training in particular? It is the largest education in the higher education sector, Madam President. It is the most strategically important education for our society and for our democracy. We should be able to attract the best students and the most suitable students. But they should not only enter the education, which has been our criticism of the Social Democrats, but they should also remain in the education and leave the education with a degree. Here comes the question of the so-called retention, that is, how many students are left after three semesters, six semesters or ten semesters. We are seeing dramatic developments, Madam President. It is not enough to get into teacher training, but you also have to get out with a passing grade and a passing degree. We Liberals will continue to follow the issue of teacher training, and we will continue to pursue the government in order to increase the quality of teacher education.
i-444d246a996643ff-119	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing the motions raised by Members of Parliament during the autumn, which are about the university. There are 170 claims, and there are 59 reservations. I intend to focus on a few things in the speech. It is so important that a society uses its main tool to build its country strong and strengthen people's freedom. Of course, that tool is education. In Sweden, we have gone from the fact that in 1956 there were 17 000 students at higher education institutions and universities to the fact that there are now over 350 000 students. It is really something to be proud of – proud but not satisfied. We can see that the sloping recruitment is still large. Those who from their homes have the tradition of studying further, those who know how to do, go to higher education. Those who don't know don't even look. The most under-represented group in higher education is men with working-class backgrounds. That's not good enough. Wider recruitment will always be one of my top priorities, perhaps because I myself have gone the long way to higher education. I know from my own experience that it's not really that difficult and complicated. You quickly learn the codes once you have entered higher education, and you actually have something important to add when you come from a under-represented group, no matter where you are but perhaps above all in higher education. I would like to take this opportunity to tell you a little about what the government decided during the last parliamentary term. This applies both to things that meant the proper use of some of our common resources as well as things that cost little money but that were important for other reasons. The government decided that the university will be added close to 2 billion to enable the expansion of 25,000 new permanent training places throughout the country. These are funded places. It is particularly important that the places are actually permanent so that the universities can plan their activities and use their resources properly. A new national system for quality assurance of the university's education has been introduced to ensure that students actually receive an education of the highest quality. A new admission system for the university has been developed. It values work experience, improves the university test and takes advantage of people's skills. This is important because there is a need for an open, clear and fair way into higher education. Work experience must be meritorious. A national resource centre for the development and dissemination of knowledge and methods against racism has been set up. An investigation has been initiated to develop a new strategy for increased internationalisation, including the goal that more students and researchers should be able to travel to and from Sweden. Higher education institutions and universities have been given the task of integrating gender equality into their activities to ensure that everyone, regardless of gender, has the same opportunities. The UHR has been tasked with spreading good examples to combat discrimination against students with disabilities. In addition, we have had a steering and resource inquiry which in February submitted its proposals, which are now in the process of being consulted. Much more has been done. The list can be made long. Education and research are our main tools for building Sweden strong and strengthening the freedom of all citizens. Our goal is for Sweden to be a leading knowledge nation and one of the world's leading research countries. Education contributes to lifelong learning, no matter who you are and where in the country you live. It equips people for today's and tomorrow's labour market and combats unemployment. It strengthens the competitiveness of our business community and provides the conditions for new jobs that currently do not exist. This is particularly true in the green sector. Not all jobs today will exist in the future. However, we are not just going to train for work. Education also increases the level of education in our society and thus strengthens democracy, which we must defend every day. Formation has its own value for me as an individual to understand myself and the world around me. This is extremely important, not least today, when we see that human dignity and democracy are actually being called into question in some places. Universities and higher education institutions are the backbone of our common community building. It's an investment that's paid off well. Sweden is today one of the world's most innovative countries. Unemployment is low, and our economy is doing well. But we have challenges, not least in the climate area. The forests are burning all around our country. We have a Mediterranean climate in April. At the same time, there are people who claim that the climate challenges are fake. I hope that our higher education institutions will focus even more on meeting the UN's 17 sustainability goals and then perhaps also have a special focus on the link to health and equality for all people. We can always do more. The most important thing we can do, however, is to prioritise investments such as education before any tax cuts for those who already have. This was realized as early as in the 1940 school inquiry, in which I immersed myself during the weekend. It had two objectives: to review the education system in general and to increase recruitment to higher education for people in rural areas and among groups with lower levels of education in particular. This continues to this day, almost 80 years later. We need to continue their work. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-444d246a996643ff-136	Madam President, I would like Social Democrat Gunilla Svantorp chose not to mention teacher education at all, nor to answer the questions put by the Liberals. That's remarkable. People are happy to cheer at the university of applied sciences, where over 90 per cent of students get jobs in the field of education one year later. We're not just going to train for work," says Gunilla Svantorp. But when it comes to teacher and nurse training, which I mentioned as an example, we have quality problems. We have a crying shortage of teachers and major quality and throughput problems in higher education. The representatives of the Social Democrats say nothing about this in their speech in the debate on higher education. We have made proposals to change the quality of teacher training. For example, we want more methodology instead of even more pedagogy. The aim is to improve contact with working life so that students are better prepared. We have also said that we want an aptitude test. All these pleas have been rejected, Gunilla Svantorp. Why?
i-444d246a996643ff-139	Madam President, I would like Let me remind the honourable Member, Roger Haddad, of what we are discussing: motions from the general period of exercise last autumn. I think Roger Haddad has been in Parliament as long as I have been, that is, since 2010. That's why he should know how we in Parliament handle things. The fact that most of it is rejected – as the report also shows, where we explain the reason for rejection or whatever – is very much about the fact that there are already various activities, such as investigations and referrals. Things are happening, so motion is not approved. It cannot be a surprise to Roger Haddad that it looks like this. This is the way Parliament works at the moment. Furthermore, I would like to remind Roger Haddad that, after all the motions were written last autumn, we had a formation of government when we signed a joint January agreement with 73 points. In this, the teacher training, which is paragraph 56, is in very good condition. We will investigate about all the questions Roger Haddad asked about. Instead, I would like to ask Roger Haddad a question. All the time you talk down teacher education, but never ever do you compare the challenges of teacher education with other educations that also have challenges. I have never heard the Liberals or anyone else raise this issue, but the teacher training is constantly being taken up. There are other courses that also have challenges. Aren't they interesting to the Liberals? What do you want to do about the fact that there is a loss in other educations? I almost find it rude to say that we do not care about teacher training. Yes, we do. We are working hard on this issue in the January agreement.
i-444d246a996643ff-143	Madam President, I would like I did not say that Gunilla Svantorp did not think this was important but that it was not mentioned in her speech. Our choosing to focus on teacher education is because we think that the teaching profession is Sweden's most important profession. That is why we choose to talk about teacher training. I will continue to talk about it. And that's up to me, not the Social Democrats. If the Social Democrats want to talk about something else, Madam President, they can do so. This is where we have problems with throughput and retention, i.e. how many remain and eventually graduate. Why is that important? Yes, because we have a lack of teachers. 50 000 – 80 000 teachers are in demand. What do the Social Democrats think? You cannot just sweep everything under the so-called January agreement. We will review the admission requirement, but I asked about the content without receiving any comment from the Social Democrats. Then I specifically asked about our proposal on aptitude tests. Does Gunilla Svantorp think that one should introduce a general element with aptitude tests for all teacher training courses in Sweden?
i-444d246a996643ff-147	Madam President, I would like During my speech, I spoke very much about broader recruitment. It looks different depending on the education you attend. The education that has the most students from under-represented groups is teacher and nurse training. That's where you end up. It is true that I did not specifically mention teacher training, but I was talking about a whole. I think it is extremely important to broaden recruitment. Roger Haddad asked us what we think about various things that are currently being investigated and which are also included in the 73-point agreement. I am not going to answer that question because, as I said, this is being investigated. We have had a trial with aptitude tests that have worked well. However, I cannot say today that this should be introduced into all teacher training. On the other hand, the January agreement states that we should discuss how we increase the quality of teacher training. Appropriateness tests are then part of this. I do not think that today we can say what it should look like in the future. We also discuss these issues almost every day, and I therefore think that we can actually have a little patience.
i-444d246a996643ff-151	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad raised most of the questions I would ask about teacher training, so I'll have the good taste not to repeat them. But maybe I can have a short line change anyway. There are things I am very happy to hear, such as the fact that we have to provide conditions for different socio-economic groups. I couldn't agree more. The previous speaker mentioned men with working-class backgrounds. That makes me especially happy, for I come from there myself. I'm both a chasm and a man with a working-class background. Gunilla Svantorp mentions that there will be 25 000 new higher education places. We already have 350 000 students enrolled at the country's higher education institutions. What I'm reading, what I'm getting reports, is that somewhere there's a breakpoint. I will try to be as honest and fair as possible and not to propagate politically here. But somewhere there is a point where the amount of higher education students, the quantity, is broken by quality and we reduce the quality of our higher education. There are many, and I am prepared to agree with them, who believe that we are there now. We've crossed the breakpoint. The focus has been on getting as many students as possible. Madam President, I would like Gunilla Svantorp mentions 25 000 new students. We gain nothing from it in Sweden as a nation. Neither do the students if we cannot maintain quality. I am very concerned about quality. I'm not worried about the quantity. We are in a great position internationally when it comes to quantity.
i-444d246a996643ff-155	Madam President, I would like I didn't get a question, but I'm still going to take the opportunity. Yes, we think it is important to expand higher education. We have been doing this for years. Above all, our party has made sure to expand, because it is important to enable more people to take part in higher education and thus contribute to society. But I want to point out that every place is funded. There's no place that's not funded. For some years now, we have a quality assurance system. We have had quality assurance systems all along, but under the alliance government we had one that was not approved in Europe. Now we have one that is approved and regularly looks at the quality of education. We've seen what it looks like. If you get a remark, yes, either you correct it or the education is discontinued and the right to a degree disappears. I would like to say that we have a system that works very well. I would like to take this opportunity now that I have Robert Stenkvist in the speaker's chair and ask a question about what we are always asked about. It's about gender science. Issues relating to equality and justice always raise opposition. Gender science is a socially critical subject that the Swedish Democrats obviously do not think should exist. I've heard that many times now. Gender science challenges a traditional hierarchy and traditional norms. I would like to ask Robert Stenkvist how he thinks we can increase equality if we do not look at norms and values in our society.
i-444d246a996643ff-161	Madam President, I would like Wrong, Madam President, wrong! We are opposed to gender studies that are not based on scientific foundations. We can have as much gender science as we like, but it should rest on a scientific basis and not be overideology printed on. Otherwise, we will have as much research as we want in gender science. We have read Ivar Arpi's series on how to force gender science on courses where it is completely irrelevant. Then one goes against this with free universities and universities and freedom of teaching. Now we're getting off the subject. It was skilfully done by Gunilla Svantorp, because now I completely got off the subject. But as for the fact that it is not based on a scientific basis, I have just today read a book by David Eberhard. He shows researchers after researchers, including the famous Judith butler, who claims that there are no biological differences between men and women. That is what I mentioned in my speech. I think that is completely unscientific. I and my party, the Swedish Democrats, claim with support in all the science available from the 15th century onwards that there are biological differences between men and women. It's been shown a million times. A specific question, Madam President, to Gunilla Svantorp: do the Social Democrats believe that there are biological differences between men and women?
i-444d246a996643ff-165	Madam President, I would like Now I can't ask a question back to Robert Stenkvist, but I get puzzled when he says that gender science is not based on scientific basis. I wonder what that means. But that's what we're gonna have to do in another line shift. As Robert Stenkvist refers to Ivar Arpi, I would like to refer to all the answers to Ivar Arpi's articles, not least that of Ulf Mellström at Karlstad University, who is a professor of gender studies. They're wise. There are many good objections to what Robert Stenkvist says. Since I have the privilege of chairing the Board of the Centre for Gender Research at Karlstad University, I read a lot about this. I would say that this science is one of the most transparent, perhaps unlike others. There are high demands that what you do should be transparent. What I think annoys those who do not think gender science is important is that it has emerged from women's science. For those who like to stay in the old society and do not go forward and who think that man is the norm, it obviously challenges the perceptions that exist. But I won't ask any more questions because Robert Stenkvist can't answer.
i-444d246a996643ff-169	Madam President, I would like Investing in education and higher education is an investment. It is an investment that the individual student makes in himself. But it is also an investment that we jointly make to create and maintain a modern society, an innovative and resilient society. That is why we need to maintain high quality in our universities and colleges. We will offer our students the very best education we can. We will have education with both breadth and excellence. We need to continue to broaden recruitment so that more people get the chance to study at universities or colleges. Higher education must be present throughout the country, if not with campus areas and seminar halls, at least via distance education. We need to lower the thresholds for higher studies, and we need to continue to expand the number of study places. The government is working on all of this. Some of it is in the January agreement. The government has delivered, both this mandate and the former, and will continue to deliver. Just now it was announced that the government is continuing its investment in artificial intelligence. We invested 20 million last year and continue with an additional 20 million this year. I am pleased with the 300 SEK increase in the grant part of the study aid that was carried out for the autumn semester last year. No one should have to give up studies because you can't afford them. Another threshold is the availability of housing at university sites. It is mainly a municipal task, but government decisions during the last term of office facilitated for the municipalities concerned. I am thinking, among other things, of investment support and changed assignments to Akademiska hus. There are now great opportunities to build up the housing shortage for students in the next few years – if we are lucky. So we gradually remove the obstacles and attract more to the universities. But broader recruitment also means that we will need to take better care of our students. Unfortunately, we see an increase in mental illness among our students. It's alarming. Psychic disorders are more common among students than among professionals in the corresponding age groups. This shows investigations, and we have to face that. The student health care is of course an important task here. We may need to provide more resources but above all make student health more visible. This is largely about prevention. But being able to register as a student has not been easy either, nor to come back after a period of illness. The Environmental Party wants the conditions for illness during the study period to be more similar to the conditions that apply in working life. Then it needs to be easier to register as a student, and it needs to be possible to get sick part-time, even for shorter periods than a full year. We need a shorter clean-up time. Today it is 30 days for students while it is a day for employees. In addition, rehabilitation responsibilities need to be clarified. Today, sick students have no regulated right to rehabilitation at all. Madam President, I would like University and higher education studies are about forming and preparing and equipping for a working life. It is a question of assimilation of knowledge at a higher level, but also of learning how to assimilate knowledge. It's about learning to read and write in a scientific way. Learning to read a scientific article is learning how to produce knowledge. Quality in teaching is best achieved by trusting our university teachers, but also by providing teachers with better conditions. If you have only about five or six hours a week with your students – and that is unfortunately the case, especially in humanities and social sciences – the conditions are not the very best. In the January agreement we regulate how we get a teacher education with a higher quality. That point is very important. We simply have to face the increasing shortage of teachers that we see before us by graduating more and better equipped teachers. One of the keys to this is what is stated in the agreement on just more teacher-led hours. More teacher-led hours we also need to take with us to other training courses, not just to teacher training. A student should be allowed to meet his teachers at least ten hours a week. This should be seen as a fundamental requirement for quality in education, even if we are not there today. Another important measure is to strengthen the link between research and education. This would increase the quality of education, but probably also in research. Students need to meet teachers who are active researchers. The teaching should be based on scientific basis and the latest research findings. But researchers also need to meet students. That feedback is extremely valuable. This is included in the Steering and Resource Investigation, Strut, which has been mentioned earlier here today and which we will certainly have several opportunities to debate further in the future. Another suggestion in that study, which I think is very good, is that the performance-based allocation of resources is proposed to decrease in importance. Although adjustments have been made within the system in recent years, this funding allocation, based on high throughput and full-year performance, is a rather troublesome element that constantly pushes to reduce the quality of education. It is not good for anyone that you as a teacher should feel pressure from departmental or faculty management to approve an exam that is actually not good enough. I do not think teachers do so to a great extent, but the pressure is disturbing. I therefore await further preparation of the investigation and hope that that part and several others will be implemented in the future. Madam President, I would like I would like to end by returning to a point in the January agreement – a point that the Green Party has been pushing for a long time. This is about lifelong learning. We will strengthen the possibility of a change in life. The possibility of further training or re-training above the age range should be increased. There may be many reasons to change your profession and course. We live in a world where the labour market is changing. The profession you've been trained for may no longer exist. But it can also be personal reasons. You are looking for personal development or need to retrain for health reasons or other reasons. To the budget bill next autumn, a proposal on how the study funding system needs to be changed should be presented so that it can be implemented in 2021 – it will probably be good. Madam President, I would like With those words, I support the proposal of the Committee on Education and Training in report 13.
i-444d246a996643ff-190	Madam President, I would like So we are now moving from higher education to research issues. These are two very exciting and important issues, which of course go a little hand in hand. I would like to begin by saying that the Moderates are behind all our reservations, but for time winning, I only call for the approval of reservation No 15 under paragraph 6, Research infrastructures and innovations. The research bill from 2016 mentioned above says that Sweden should be a leader in research and innovation and also a leading knowledge nation. This will lead to the development and well-being of society and to a competitive business environment. Sweden should be an internationally attractive country with investments in research and development. Public and private investment in research and development will continue to exceed the EU's objectives. Overall quality enhancement of the research will take place, and gender equality will increase, as well as collaboration and societal impact. These are great goal formulations, and the Moderates of course agree with them all. Sweden has long been a leading nation in knowledge and research. Now we are getting lost, and one might ask why, Madam President. What can we do about this? To look at this, the so-called Steering and Resource Investigation, Struten, as has been mentioned here before, has been set up. It is an investigation that will look at how we will improve both the university and research. This investigation has been followed by a great many, especially in the research world. Many researchers are concerned about what has been presented so far; the investigation is being consulted now, but a presentation has come anyway. An angry and worried scientist actually called the investigation the dummies-- I wouldn't say that, of course. There have been both rice and rose, and there are some to which we are critical. What do you think the ostrich says? It says, among other things, that performance requirements for research and education in practice should be abolished. The investigation is also consistently negative to the fact that the research is quality reviewed and evaluated and instead thinks that the universities can evaluate themselves. We are very critical of this. Within the Moderates, we say that we must prioritise quality over quantity. A global trend is that universities' research funding is becoming more and more competitive, which is very important, I think. This means that the research applications are reviewed by anonymous assessors based on whether the project has any potential and whether one sees any future for the project and also on the previous achievements of researchers. Among other things, the OECD advocates this approach. The aim is, of course, to improve the quality and dissemination of research. We think this is very positive. But what does Struten say about this, Madam President? They say they want to go against this trend, reduce research funding and instead increase basic funding for higher education institutions. This means that we want to allocate the money differently and possibly give higher education institutions greater flexibility. But the money must of course be taken somewhere, and you want to take it from the research councils, including from the Swedish Research Council, where award now takes place through competition. This proposal would mean that 70 million of the grant to the Swedish Research Council was cancelled. This, of course, means a major change for the Swedish Research Council, and it strikes at the research that is competitive – what is called the excellent research. This would mean that around 70 research projects fewer could receive funding by 2020 – a big difference. Many research projects could not receive any funding, and much research that has been going on for a long time would be slowed down. This is of course very negative, so M and KD have a spring change motion where we suggest that the money goes back to the Swedish Research Council. What else do the Moderates want to do? We want to streamline research in the assignments of higher education institutions. We also want to prioritise research so that it can reach world class in certain strategic areas. This means that research resources need to be concentrated in fewer universities. We also want the government to clarify the principles for how to actually allocate the money to research. It is still a little unclear how this will happen. The Moderates also want to see a better link between research and industry. Then there is the EU's research framework programme. It is very important, and we are working very much on this. The EU currently has an ongoing framework programme called Horizon 2020. It includes both Euratom and the European Institute of Innovation and Technology. It's the eighth program. This includes, of course, Sweden. We have a large part and are considered to be a prominent country. There is also a new programme, the ninth programme. It's called Horizon Europe. It is also very successful and good. But on the part of the Moderates, we believe that we in Sweden must be present earlier, so that we can have a greater impact on what is to be included in the EU's research programme and so that Sweden can continue to be a world-class country with impressive research, which also leads to better innovations. So the Moderates think that the research is very important. As a doctor, I find medical research particularly exciting. Thanks to the research, I have been able to see with an advanced MR camera how people make decisions on important issues. I thought that we should make decisions on this issue and hope that you will decide in the same way as me and the Moderates. Then I want to tell you that there is also a vote going on in the brain. Several areas of the brain have a debate, one might say, based on norms, past experiences and things that have been taken in the past. The reward system also plays a role: if I vote like this, I will receive a reward. It is the frontal cortex, that is, the boiler lobe, that governs all the votes that take place in the brain. I hope now that your vote will be like my vote, so that you will vote like the Moderates.
i-XfFvhrPSdjLcKgwhR7Rmct	Madam President, I would like I call for reservation 11 in the UbU14 Research report. Sweden is well placed internationally in terms of funding and funding for research. There is no doubt about it. We have many talented researchers, and we do not perform too poorly in many areas. We are quite good in Sweden and can be proud of it. It is all too rarely that we highlight our good points. But now, after all, we are here to tell you what can be better. One measure we should take is to allow higher education institutions to specialise more. I think that the research would go forward with that proposal and that the universities focus on the research they are the best at. We can't all do research on everything. Maybe not all universities need to do research on everything. Regional universities may not be able to do research at all. Then maybe it's just as well that they don't and invest in good education with high quality. A dark spot of shame that we should not be proud of at all is the now almost forgotten Macchiarini scandal. That's why I'm bringing it up again. There was an investigation of this scandal, carried out largely by Sten Heckscher. When I read on to this debate, it turned out that all the documents relating to that investigation have disappeared. I do not know if they have returned now, but I have not been able to find them. This, ladies and gentlemen, is totally unacceptable and even scandalous! It is also unfortunate that the doctors and other staff who tried to sound the alarm about Macchiarinis's madness at an earlier stage were systematically opposed and even threatened. My question is, have we learned anything after the Macchiarini scandal? Does it look the same today when it comes to the culture of silence? I'm letting the questions hang in the air here, for everyone to think over. I and some others here were on the parliamentary Strut group, which has been mentioned a lot of times here. It was interesting to sit there, actually. One proposal presented by the investigator was to reallocate state grants from state institutions such as the Swedish Research Council directly to the universities. I think that was a good suggestion, contrary to what the Moderates said here. Of course it is interesting to try and then evaluate it. If it doesn't work, you can go back to an old system. It's not worse than that. This would also increase the autonomy of higher education institutions, an issue where not least me and my party have received criticism. That would be a perfect boost to independence. In addition, I think that we will get just as good research if a larger part of the funding goes directly to the universities. I was in the ostrich, and there I heard no objections to the proposal, as I recall. But afterwards there has been quite a lot of criticism of it. I think it is good to present the policy of one's party as early as possible, for many reasons. I have raised this in previous debates with research on nuclear power in general and on energy production from nuclear power in particular. It is true that there is no ban on research into nuclear power today. However, I have learned that this research has been a very low priority, which I find to be a great pity. There is much talk about the need to reduce our emissions of carbon dioxide and that we should live fossil-free. The Green Party talks a lot about having a completely renewable energy production. I do not believe that society can be driven by the standard we have become accustomed to with renewable energy production alone. I'm sure it won't work if we don't freeze the winters and if our big energy-consuming companies are going to be able to run all year round with full effect. If we are to maintain our welfare, standard of living and the level of living we have become accustomed to, we must have a large energy production with nuclear power. That is why we should increase our research into nuclear power, so that we can build fourth generation nuclear power plants within the reasonable future. These nuclear power plants are safe, clean and extremely efficient. I would also like to quote Percy Barnevik's words about our energy production in Sweden: Sweden has cheap electricity, clean electricity and safe electricity. In short, we have the energy supply that all other countries would like. Now our greatest concern seems to be how to get out of this situation in the shortest possible time. I think it's a little apt, actually. Finally, I would like to mention this with politically-driven research. Of course, SD does not want such governance. Read my lip! It is, in fact, impossible: it is simply not possible to govern politically either research or high-quality education, because then it is no longer high-quality. This shows not least the trend of gender science. It is not in all respects independent research. We believe that it is politically controlled research. Now I feel like I'm repeating myself, and I apologize for that. The scientific newspaper Curie has claimed to be lying about what both I and my party have said on this issue. In addition – and this is beneath all criticism and must be contrary to all that is called honesty and academic criticism – I must not give a reply to what they have written about us. I do not even get a comment under the article where they mention me and my party in negative terms. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is beneath any academic criticism! Speaking of fake news and filter bubbles: here we have a genuine filter bubble, I think. Let me return to this with Mr Dickinson from the last debate. We in SD don't want to influence Connie Dickinson politically in any way. We want her to have an adequate education. If you don't understand, maybe you shouldn't call yourself an academic at all.
i-444d246a996643ff-224	Madam President, I would like I do not quite understand the logic of what Mr Stenkvist says. First he says that we should prioritise different types of research and that we should invest in the research that is important. Then he says that politicians should not interfere in research. And then he says that it is better that the money goes directly to the universities, so that they get more flexibility. The money should therefore not go to the Swedish Research Council. I can't get it right. What does Robert Stenkvist really want to do with the research?
i-444d246a996643ff-226	Madam President, I would like Nuclear research became a political priority at one time. I think that pad should be removed. It concerns our energy production and our standard of living. There is a strong social interest here. Basically, I mean absolutely that the universities must, and should, be allowed to decide for themselves over the research. The autonomy of the teaching institutions is reduced through the Swedish Research Council, Forte and all these organisations. We can take a piece of that funding and bring it directly to the universities. Then they'll be less politically governed. It's hard to understand. We will have independent universities that control their own research. We have the strategic areas. The Government, the State and the Riksdag have decided that they should be strategic research areas. It is also a form of political governance – nothing else can be said. But the government, the parliament and I too agree that we are to some extent directing research for the sake of society. I mean, every penny is government-funded. No, not every penny. Some of them, of course, come from companies. It's a little bit about balance, if we're gonna be honest. But basically, the universities and universities will direct their own research. They should even direct their own gender studies themselves, only it is based on scientific foundations.
i-444d246a996643ff-230	Madam President and Robert Stenkvist! Maybe I didn't get much wiser. I thought that Robert Stenkvist began by saying that it is important that we invest in proper research, future research and research that leads to results.
i-444d246a996643ff-231	That's what I heard. At least that's how I think it should be invested. This is made more difficult by saying that as much as possible should be flexible so that universities can choose for themselves. I also think that one should be able to invest in good research, but it should lead to something. It's, as you say, the government money we use. Then it is important that it leads to innovation, leads to something that is good for society and leads to development. Then I see a risk of too much flexibility.
i-444d246a996643ff-233	Madam President, I would like I agree, except for the first Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel said. It didn't sound good to me. It sounded like the politicians were going to rule way too much. That was the first sentence, the first movement. I have forgotten the exact wording, but I absolutely do not support that.
i-444d246a996643ff-234	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that we in the Center Party are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but I am only in favour of reservation 6 in the report for the time being. Today we are discussing motions on research policy that have been received during general exercise. It is important that we discuss research policy in this House annually. At the end of the 70's, a proposal of principle was made that each government should leave a research bill. And since 1982, when Thorbjörn Fälldin led the government, the government has delivered a research bill that points to the direction of Swedish research policy. This is where we have the major discussions about Swedish research development. Those who endeavour to read the report can see that there is no part of what the Center Party has been pushing for a long time in the field of research. That's why I'm going to have a little more focus on it. Sweden has very good conditions when it comes to research. We have many higher education institutions that stand out well in international measurements. We have outstanding research. We have a tradition of good and successful research. It is about research that has led to new medical findings, which allow us to feel better and live longer. But these are also new technologies that enable the industry to keep up with technological development and lead technological development, so that jobs and growth are created throughout the country. These are very good parts that follow from the research that is taking place. We need to step up and take further steps to ensure that Sweden continues to be an internationally strong research nation. Research policy debate tends to focus precisely on publicly funded research. During the alliance government, public funding for research increased by over SEK 9 billion between 2009 and 2016. That was an increase of 30%. The latest research bill, from the Red-Green Government, chose to slow down investment in state-funded research funds. That's the wrong way to go. Unfortunately, however, Swedish research policy tends to focus far too much on state-funded research. The vast majority of research carried out in Sweden is conducted in private companies and in private research and development. It is worrying to see that private investment in research and development in Sweden is declining while private investment in research and development is increasing in 18 out of 22 comparable countries. Sweden is losing competitiveness. Madam President, I would like What needs to be done to strengthen Sweden as a research nation? From the Center Party we see several parts. Strong and attractive research environments are needed in Sweden. There, state funds are important prerequisites for ensuring that we have higher education institutions of international top quality and that we have a good research infrastructure. We have this in Sweden today with M ax IV and ESS. But it's also about other parts. There it needs to be done further. We need to improve the conditions for higher education institutions to profile themselves in order for us to have even stronger higher education institutions in different areas. We can see in the higher education landscape or the university landscape that we have in Sweden that both large and smaller universities have a very good tip, and that they must be allowed to develop further. The tip is needed, but at the same time the link between research and education needs to be strengthened. This shows not least the review carried out by the University Chancellor's Office, which is linked to the teacher education, which has been discussed earlier today. We need to make sure to create good conditions when it comes to running companies in Sweden. We are seeing developments in which more and more companies are operating in an international market. They operate in several different countries. Then we need to ensure that we have attractive research environments, which we have been into. We need to have competitive taxes and laws in Sweden in order for companies to choose to put their business in Sweden. And we need to ensure that we succeed in providing skills. It is about the Swedish students having the right knowledge to be interesting for these companies but also about succeeding in recruiting international researchers and students. On the latter point, Sweden has failed. During the last parliamentary term, there were a number of examples that I believe we have all heard in this House. International students and researchers were not allowed to stay in Sweden because of bureaucracy and regulations. This meant that they ended up in other countries, and Swedish competitiveness was further reduced. Madam President, I would like There are only weeks left before an EU election or an election to the European Parliament, to say the least. The EU has the world's largest research budget. It is a great opportunity for Sweden, as a research nation, to be part of European cooperation and to ensure that the common budget to be adopted in the future continues to have – and it may be even clearer – a focus on high quality in research. It is with concern that we can see that Sweden is able to bring home an ever smaller share of the common European funds. There, the Center Party, together with the Alliance during the previous term of office, ran, when the research bill was submitted, that Sweden needs to have a clearer goal of taking more of the funds available in Europe and thus also strengthening our competitiveness. This also applies to public funds allocated through European cooperation. Madam President, I would like We have heard earlier in today's debate that gender equality within academia has major challenges. The Center Party shares that picture. We have a rather poor development in higher education in Sweden. The majority of students are women, but when it comes to professors too few women choose to take career steps within academia. We need to improve that. Today, however, a report from the University Chancellor's Office showed that in 2008 19 per cent of the professors were women, and today it is 29 per cent. It's going in the right direction, but it's going too slow. We need to do more to strengthen and improve conditions within academia so that more people see and choose that career path. This also strengthens Sweden as a research nation. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that academic freedom is important to protect when talking about higher education and research. We can see how authoritarian regimes control research, close research or create very difficult regulations for universities and other research institutes. There, Sweden must ensure that the constitutionally protected academic freedom that exists in Sweden and continue to work on these issues at international level so that those countries that violate the important principle of academic freedom cannot continue to do so.
i-L9XztfhHetBRtbFHcBN9Mj	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Isabella Lövin, Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister for Education Anna Ekström, who at short notice replaces Minister Ann Linde, and Minister Matilda Ernkrans. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for the Environment and Climate Policy Isabella Lövin answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility. As the Minister of Education has come in on short notice, there are not many pre-announced questions to her.
i-444d246a996643ff-254	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. Sweden needs a stronger defence as the development of security policy in our neighbourhood continues to deteriorate. In defence policy, we are striving for broad political agreements. It gives strength and long-termness to the decisions taken. Over the past year, we have seen how the government has chosen to ignore important conclusions from the Defence Committee. For example, it has been about the assessment of the risk of an armed attack but also about how total defence issues should be organised in the Government Office. Mr President, I would like to This creates uncertainty as to how the government views the status of the Defence Committee. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Defence: is the Defence Committee's report the basis for the next defence decision, or is it merely a basis for discussion? Is the government prepared to support the financial level of defence expenditure that the Defence Committee will propose?
i-444d246a996643ff-258	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that Sweden needs a stronger defence. In the years that we have now been in government power, we have seen a trend towards increased war capacity and increased military capabilities. It was extremely doubtful during the eight years you sat in the government, Pål Jonson. The defence committee's report has not yet been presented. However, I assume that it will form the basis for the next defence-oriented decision, which is planned for spring 2020. I do not intend to hold any negotiations in this House on economic levels. However, I would like to say one thing. It is that experience shows that defence decisions run the risk of being underfunded. There is also a risk that funding will not reach all the way through. This, in turn, leads to constant renegotiations. It is time to end these renegotiations. Perhaps the Swedish Armed Forces and FMV should also make their assessments of the framework before establishing and making a political agreement. What is agreed should also be held in the confrontation with reality.
i-444d246a996643ff-262	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. I just want to inculcate that we Moderates now expect the Social Democrats, who are the great government party, to be willing to enter into a political agreement also on the defence economy. We have a defense committee that's been working for two years. Its final report must be seen as a whole combining security policy analysis, defence policy efforts and the defence economy. Mr President, I would like to We must ultimately take the deteriorating security policy environment very seriously and provide the means to strengthen the defence.
i-444d246a996643ff-265	Mr President, I would like to If there are any people who take the security policy environment seriously, it is us. We're working on this day-to-day. We take part of different reports, mate different things and make different decisions in everyday life – in reality. We're not just discussing. When it comes to the economy, you should strive to have as much solid ground under your feet as you can ever have. It should be a common interest for as many people as possible. Or does Pål Jonson think it is satisfying with recurring renegotiations and forecasts that turn out not to be true?
i-444d246a996643ff-268	Mr. Speaker and Isabella Lövin! Last May, the European Commission presented its proposal for a new long-term budget. It is proposed that the Swedish EU contribution should increase by 35%, which corresponds to just over SEK 15 billion per year. The Swedish Democrats have been very clear that, on the contrary, we want to see a reduction in the EU levy. Less than a month ago, the Minister for Finance stood in this Chamber and said: That is why we are pushing the line that the budget should remain at 1% of GDP. ..................................................... My question is: is the government prepared to use its veto to stop the Commission's draft budget? I would appreciate it if the question were to be answered with a yes or a no.
i-2AsHCKXv9kZ1RYHa8V9oiA	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Charlotte Quensel, for the question! We do not look with great enthusiasm at the fact that Britain is now leaving the European Union. It will have an impact on the forecasts for the EU's long-term budget. The government is primarily working to ensure that Britain's withdrawal does not affect the budget, but we need to look at which expenditure items can be reduced. Structural funds and also agricultural aid are parts of which we can see a redistribution and a reduction. For us, it is important that we do not eat up additional budgetary space for Sweden by having a disproportionately higher increase than other Member States. But it is far too early to veto. Europe is a very important force in the world today. We need to make sure that Europe works.
i-444d246a996643ff-273	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that Isabella Lövin does not want to answer yes or no. But in 17 days' time, we will have an EU election. I believe that the Swedish people are worthy of a direct answer from the government. Therefore, I repeat: is the government going to use its right of veto to put an end to an EU fee which, according to the government itself, will touch the cost of our entire defence? I think all Swedes would appreciate a clear yes or no before going to the ballot boxes.
i-444d246a996643ff-275	Mr President, I would like to I think Charlotte Quensel is asking an impossible question. The answer to the question cannot be yes or no. It is about ensuring that Europe functions as well as possible. And we shall ensure that we do not have to enter more funds into the EU budget than is a reasonable share for Sweden. To torpedo the whole of EU cooperation through a veto is to go very far. I think Charlotte Quensel knows that.
i-444d246a996643ff-277	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Minister Lövin. The climate issue is the destiny of our time. I think we agree on that. If we are to be able to meet the goals we have set, we need to reduce our emissions, in the world and in Sweden. Unfortunately, we see that emissions are falling far too slowly to meet our targets. I do not want to get stuck in a number exercise if emissions increase or decrease. But we can agree that they are decreasing at a far too low rate. This is also confirmed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. How does the Government view this development? And, above all, how do we intend to reduce emissions, which increased during the last parliamentary term? I am proud of what we have agreed in the January agreement, but I would like to hear what the government intends to do further. I would also like to hear how European cooperation is viewed. There, an offensive climate policy has been based on the fact that we can have an ambitious burden-sharing where we take on ambitious targets. How will this be connected if we fail to reduce our emissions sufficiently?
i-R7fdayepSfdStuPYicYUGX	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Magnus Ek! Of course, I am at least as concerned as most others that emissions are not falling at the rate we need to see if we are going to cope with what scientists are saying to us. We need to reduce emissions by somewhere between 5% and 8% a year to meet the 1.5-degree target. On the other hand, I feel confident that we have begun a thorough transformation of Swedish society – in the transport sector, industry and the housing sector. We are forcing renewable fuels into petrol and diesel, and we are going to have a stop to fossil fuels, as we agree in the January agreement. We are also working at European level, where we have greatly strengthened the EU emissions trading system. However, this transition takes time, and we need to do more. We will present an action plan for this, according to the Climate Act this autumn, and sector by sector, telling us how we need to further strengthen the policy in order to really reduce emissions at the pace they need.
i-444d246a996643ff-282	Mr President, I would like to If I may then give myself a supplementary question: Is it not the case that one reason why we may have lost some speed in the transition here in Sweden is that there has been uncertainty in some of the sectors that will supply the fuels and energy needed in the green transition? This concerns the forestry sector, and it concerns the conditions for biogas and solar energy. How does the Government intend to act so that such uncertainty does not arise in the future? If there is time – 30 seconds of speaking time is not much – perhaps we can return to burden sharing.
i-444d246a996643ff-284	Mr President, I would like to We have production support for biogas. We have provided long-term conditions for investments in biofuels with the change of fuel, which forces renewables into petrol and diesel. We now see how Ikea starts selling solar panels in Sweden as one of some priority countries, and several electric car manufacturers designate Sweden as one of the countries where they want to launch electric cars. So we see that with our policy we provide security, and we will see more investment.
i-444d246a996643ff-285	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Climate Change Isabella Lövin. Air travel is one of the world's fastest growing sources of emissions, and every year the international aviation industry is subsidised by about SEK 200 - 300 billion in Europe alone. Under the so-called Chicago Convention, countries are not allowed to tax aviation fuel. If this is to be changed, the International Aviation Organisation (ICAO) should pursue this issue. On 5 March this year, I stood in this House and debated this issue with Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The Minister of Finance then promised that a well-thought-out strategy would be developed for how the government would drive this tax exemption to be abolished.
i-Lx1BMWrBAVKaT57wjGXhnY	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Jens Holm! We are pushing this issue in ICAO; Jens Holm can be absolutely sure of that. Jens Holm can, however, be equally sure that it is very difficult to move forward internationally. I would say that there are many of those who do not want to see a Swedish air tax that points to the Chicago Convention and ICAO and says that the issue should be pursued there instead of Sweden having its own air tax. They are the ones who do not want us to go ahead in Sweden – or in the EU. So there are many different levels. Air travel must bear its own environmental costs. Previously, aviation has not accounted for anything in Sweden, but now we have introduced a flight tax. I am also in contact with colleagues at EU level on an initiative to introduce a common aviation tax at EU level, and there we will move forward at the next meeting of Environment Ministers in Brussels. We continue to follow up these issues on a structured basis at all levels.
i-444d246a996643ff-290	Mr President, I would like to It would be great to have a common aviation tax within the EU, but now it is the tax exemption for aircraft fuel. If this exemption is to be taken seriously, a decision is required at the ICAO General Assembly. I think the Minister for Climate Change is aware that the next General Assembly will start on 24 September. As we know, the climate cannot wait, and that is why there must be a government strategy ready. I ask again: is there such a strategy, as the Minister for Finance has announced?
i-444d246a996643ff-291	Mr President, I would like to Of course our officials are working on this issue. It is a priority, and it is also a point in the 73-point programme – the January agreement – in which we are pushing for international taxation of aviation fuel. Having said that, I am sorry to say that I have rather low expectations when it comes to bringing the United States and the rest of the world on such a tax, but of course we are doing this.
i-444d246a996643ff-292	Mr President, I would like to In order to be able to meet the requirements for conversion, support for research is very important, and there the Swedish state should be an example. As far as Sweden is concerned, this should be much more extensive than today in terms of research into the production of sustainable biofuels. Research is needed because we need to have more processes and raw materials approved as biofuels for, among other things, aviation. Without Swedish production, Sweden becomes dependent on imported biofuels, and that would be very sad because we were one of the first countries to introduce reduction obligations for aviation fuel. Thus we should be one of the first producers of biofuels for aviation – we have the raw material ourselves in the form of Swedish forests.
i-ETkoRH4GfAh71S9rT4DPQg	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson! I do not believe that outside this House and outside the circle of the honourable Member there is any doubt that this is a government that stands up for us to have a fair climate transition and for us to invest a great deal of resources in the environment and climate. In fact, that is precisely what we changed when we were now given the opportunity to table an amending budget: we added over 2 billion more to the environment and climate budget. In these investments there is of course more money to develop what we can use our Swedish forest for. This applies, for example, to biofuels for aviation, but there are also many other things that we will use the Swedish forest for. Because it is a fantastic raw material that we should of course use in the climate transition, and this government does.
i-8NoENB23M3ALHzw4B3B4Cg	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Matilda Ernkrans! You put back a lot of things that your own experts have sawed and said are not effective, as we have talked about before. They have said that it is not a policy that brings the issue forward. Researchers at Luleå University have shown how only residues from logging can supply Swedish domestic aviation with biofuels without the need to harvest more forests. With the technology we have today, they see that we are up to almost 100%. We see the potential, but the government doesn't seem to. Why?
i-444d246a996643ff-298	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a leading research nation. We are the country in Europe that spends most of its money on research and innovation in relation to GDP. This government stands up for research and innovation, and this also applies to environmental and climate research. You can't remove 2 billion and think you can replace them with 100 million to Formas. That's not how it works. You have to have a whole thing. We really need to ensure that climate change is fair and carried by research and innovation as well as a change in people in their everyday lives. It is a matter of making this change wisely, and this government does.
i-444d246a996643ff-300	Mr President, I would like to Liberals have raised the issue of peace of mind and education at school during the spring. This is a very important issue for maintaining the school of knowledge and, not least, for those students who have the greatest need for a compensatory school to also be able to learn something and not be disturbed by other students. Mr President, I would like to We have noted in several studies, including from the Swedish School Inspectorate, that more students are disturbed by other students. The Swedish National Agency for Education's latest report states that teachers do not intervene in 30 per cent of the cases – thus providing a consequence – even when they violate regulations at school. The Swedish National Agency for Education has also shown that principals rarely or never use disciplinary measures when there is trouble in school. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for Education Anna Ekström how she sees that more people in school do not use the disciplinary measures allowed by the school law.
i-444d246a996643ff-303	Mr President, I would like to Security and study in our schools is important. Stitch, for late arrivals, anxiety in the classroom and violence and threats should not have a place in our school. The pupils who attend school should be protected from other pupils' mess, and the teachers who work in school should have a working environment worthy of the name. I think it is important that we have good rules in place, and I think it is important that the rules that exist are complied with. I look with concern at a development in the school world where parents and students are increasingly acting as customers in a market and where the teacher and the headmaster are at a disadvantage – the disadvantage you end up in when you have to adapt to customers' demands. For me, it is self-evident that security and study should be maintained and that rules of conduct should be followed. I assume that Roger Haddad agrees with me that it is important to ensure that the school is free from such irregularities. I also assume that, in our future cooperation after the January agreement, we will ensure this.
i-444d246a996643ff-306	Mr President, I would like to The reason why the Liberals are asking the question of study and employment peace is that it is extremely central in school policy. It is not only about threats to teachers but also about teachers and adults not having the courage to intervene against the mess. I have not been asked how the Minister for Education views the conclusions of the Swedish National Agency for Education, i.e. the authority under the authority of the Minister. The Swedish National Agency for Education notes that for various reasons, principals do not use disciplinary measures. What does the government intend to do about this?
i-444d246a996643ff-308	Mr President, I would like to We're going to strengthen the school order. We have already started work with, among others, the Liberals to introduce a national plan for security and study. We want to ban mobile phones that interfere in class, and we want to ensure that it is possible and easier to relocate and shut down pupils who interfere. I assume that the rules that exist are respected in a good way. I will follow closely that the principals have the opportunity to follow the rules, but I – perhaps unlike Roger Haddad – trust our principals. They've got the tools and they're gonna use them.
i-444d246a996643ff-311	Mr President, I would like to How we deal with the climate issue is crucial for our future, and time is scarce. If we are to succeed, we need to make more of what we know works, but also to succeed in developing new solutions, and the role of research in this work is crucial. At universities and higher education institutions, the new organisation Climate students are conducting an important debate on how higher education institutions can assume their responsibilities, both in terms of reducing their own climate footprint and in terms of how research can show a responsibility. My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. What is the government doing to increase the transition pressure, and how does the Government view the role of research and universities in achieving our climate goals?
i-EjsGq1Lt1wh6spQK7Miffw	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mattias Vepsä, for the question. I have met the climate students myself; it was one of the first organizations I met as a new minister. Sweden has got a Minister for Research who is deeply involved in climate and environmental issues. I am absolutely convinced that what climate students do and what they operate within and between each other in higher education institutions will affect how higher education institutions can take further responsibility for climate change. That is what will have to be done. Responsibility for sustainable development is already enshrined in the Higher Education Act. How to deal with this is, of course, something that the government closely follows in government dialogues and other things with the higher education institutions. I am very confident that this debate and this transition are indeed here now. I am convinced that our higher education institutions want and need to be a part of that transition.
i-Vh3fZHEPrzoMBYF2XhyE2R	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In the run-up to the EU elections, a majority of voters state that the climate issue is the most important. The Swedish government, as we have heard here, has high goals and ambitions and has invested heavily in the climate. But we can do even more within the framework of the European Union and take an even greater responsibility for a fair and inclusive transition. The following question will then be: What is the Minister's view of the future EU research work?
i-444d246a996643ff-320	Mr President, I would like to It is extremely important that our European cooperation also carries the research. After all, we have cooperation within the EU which – if we get it in place – will be the world's largest research programme, namely Horizon Europe. The Government has pushed for the programme to bear sustainability and gender equality and for it to be research of the highest quality. We Social Democrats have been very clear as recently as a few days ago that we would like one third of the research to go to a fair climate transition.
i-444d246a996643ff-322	Mr President, I would like to Outside the window spring breaks out, and the ground turns green again. There are probably many of us who sometimes feel that we would like to spend more time out in nature, feel the scent and see life as teeming but also experience the silence that exists.
i-444d246a996643ff-324	It is a problem that the accessibility to nature experiences is different, not least for children and school students. I would like to know whether the Minister for Education intends to do something to reduce the difference that exists and to make the accessibility of nature experiences better for children who do not have this naturally in their neighbourhood.
i-444d246a996643ff-325	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rasmus Ling, for a very good question! In our Swedish school, in our curricula and in our curricula, we have a rich content that reflects the knowledge that children need to bring with them in order to be able not only to work or study further but also to be responsible adult citizens who take part of everything that exists in our country, including rich nature experiences. In many of the subjects included in school curricula, this is well described. I do not have time here to explain exactly how, but I fully agree with Rasmus Ling on the importance of this being something that permeates our curricula. I would also like to inform you that the Government has just recently commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to clarify how Agenda 2030 can better permeate teaching. These are, of course, things that are already clearly described in our governance documents.
i-444d246a996643ff-329	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer. I am pleased that this is being taken very seriously. I would like to raise a related issue which is also relevant in many municipalities. Not least in my own municipality of Malmö, schoolyards are discussed and the importance of pupils being able to move on breaks. We also know that the importance of physical activity outside is very great. I hope that this is something that the Minister for Education will ensure in the future that the municipalities do not cheat with.
i-444d246a996643ff-331	Mr President, I would like to The issue of physical – and also mental – well-being is taking an increasing place in the international discussion of what is a good school. The leading schools, those with good knowledge – unfortunately better than the Swedish school results – are starting to include in their policy documents goals for the well-being of students to a greater and greater extent. The issue of physical activity takes on a greater and greater place both in research and in the international discussion. I will follow this debate with interest. I will certainly come back to Rasmus Ling in this discussion, because it is very well worth taking.
i-444d246a996643ff-334	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Higher Education and Research. One of the most important prerequisites for us to get a good school in Sweden is that we have enough well-educated teachers. Recently, the first half of UKÄ's evaluation of teacher education in Sweden came, and it is not a very encouraging reading. Half of the teacher's training is subject to a question of quality. Among other things, it is a lack of connection with research, which is an important part of the criticism. But the OECD also made criticisms about our teacher training already in 2014. It was about too little teacher-led time and the number of higher education institutions. I hope that the Minister will agree with me on the need for action. But I'm a little curious about the timetable, because it's an emergency.
i-SCtMPSAYKoHh7msHD5dxgZ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question. I would really like to emphasise that we have a very strong commitment and that the government takes this very seriously. We must ensure that we receive teacher training that is of good quality throughout the country. We see the interim evaluation we have now received as an important instrument for improving the quality of teacher training. My picture is that the universities where the quality is questioned are very committed to correcting this and ensuring that they retain the right to give the degree. That is what we want them to do, because we need more well-trained teachers in our schools. What you can think about is, if you Moderates and Maria Stockhaus are so involved in this, how it is that you have said no to the 300 million in quality enhancement to just improve the teacher training that this government has delivered.
i-444d246a996643ff-340	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to raise a completely different issue with regard to teacher training, namely the drop-out, which is a huge problem. There are many who go to teacher training, but there are a lot of people who drop out. According to UKÄ, who was in the committee today, it has a clear link to what high school grades you had when you got into education. The government has previously increased the number of seats widely, and it has reduced admission points to teacher training.
i-444d246a996643ff-342	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate the commitment of the Moderates. After all, it would have been tasty if it had been followed by an answer to the question of why it is saying no to the quality enhancement that has been done to strengthen the quality of teacher training, if one is so involved in this. With regard to drop-out, it also has to do with how you get your training. It will be better if you have a better economy to manage an operational education. We will have to come back to this discussion.
i-444d246a996643ff-346	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister for Environment and Climate Change Isabella Lövin. Sweden's current strategy for the Arctic region dates from 2011 and was shaped according to the geopolitical situation and opportunities of the time. An update was made in 2016 on climate and environmental issues but not other issues. Now it is 2019 and much has changed in the Arctic region since the first strategy was established. The Swedish Defence Research Institute has today gone out and pointed out that the 2011 strategy is no longer up to date. My question is therefore: does the government intend to develop a new strategy that is up-to-date in today's geopolitical and security policy situation?
i-GMxVqSocSVpSm2D8SnS7hf	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Cassandra Sundin, for the question! The Arctic is indeed a region that attracts a great deal of international interest. We noticed this very recently at the Arctic Council, where, for the first time in 23 years, a ministerial declaration could not be agreed because the United States was opposed to any wording related to climate change. It is indeed very worrying that we should not be able to cooperate and acknowledge the perhaps greatest threat to the Arctic region's flora and fauna and to the people there. Developing a new Arctic strategy is the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We continuously update all international strategies that Sweden and the government have.
i-444d246a996643ff-352	Mr President, I would like to Then I must thank the Government very much for the answer. After all, there is now a forthcoming EP election, and there is a strong gain in coordinating Nordic votes in the European Parliament. Is the Minister prepared to raise the Arctic on the common agenda?
i-444d246a996643ff-354	Mr President, I would like to We constantly highlight the Arctic. Sweden is one of the countries that is part of the Arctic Council. We are an Arctic nation. Many countries and interests are looking at the Arctic right now. We will of course continue to cooperate with the other Arctic countries, as we have done. We will also continue to give priority to this issue. There are many aspects to this that are worrying.
i-444d246a996643ff-357	Your President! My question is addressed to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. We have had a military reconstruction on Gotland, which is very good for many reasons, and the Gotlanders are very positive about it. However, one thing happened just two weeks ago today. Tofta's shooting field got a new decision with an impact area that really worries. As a result, the new area of influence is 20 times larger than the previous one, despite the fact that it is the same type of weapon that is in action. Within the area there are 4,400 residents. This is the most important development area we have on Gotland. A lot has been built there for the last 15 years. My question to the Minister is: Is the Minister prepared to take the initiative in commissioning the Swedish Armed Forces to seek solutions for coexistence between the Swedish Armed Forces and the civilian population on Gotland?
i-444d246a996643ff-361	Mr President, I would like to We do not usually exercise ministerial rule on the part of the government. This is a position that lies in a different sphere of authority and at different levels of decision-making than at the Ministry of Defence.
i-444d246a996643ff-362	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I do not see it as ministerial rule to give a clear mandate. I see very big problems. If we do not remedy it h, we will have reduced defence will and reduced capacity for total defence, which becomes completely dependent on the private business community, and we will find it more difficult to recruit personnel on Gotland. The problem needs to be solved. I hope that the Minister is prepared to take an initiative and give a mission, as the Minister for Defence can do.
i-444d246a996643ff-365	Mr President, I would like to These issues are dealt with in accordance with the ordinary procedure laid down by the Swedish Parliament. We do not usually intervene in such processes, but the decisions that are now taken may be handled according to the regular regulations that exist in the context. That's my answer.
i-444d246a996643ff-367	Mr President, I would like to My question is to the Secretary of Defense. The country's self-sufficiency in food has been a non-issue for a long time. The food comes, it always works out, it has been said. Today we know that it is not that simple. MSB has released the social information about the crisis or war coming, and there is a debate about how vulnerable we are in the country. Sweden's self-sufficiency in food is below 50%. Unfortunately, the figure is falling all the time. Each week, five dairy farmers close down because profitability is too poor. Sweden can handle about 12 days in a crisis or war situation and then the shelves are empty in the grocery stores. Here in Stockholm, the capital, they will be empty after two days.
i-444d246a996643ff-372	Mr President, I would like to I believe that this is a huge and common problem for all parties in the Swedish Parliament, including the KD. I do not know whether anyone at all has an immediate solution to present. If the questioner has it, I would like to see it. We are at the beginning of the construction of a total defense. It was pulled down a lot after the Cold War. Of course, the issues of self-sufficiency are one of many issues that need to be addressed in this whole perspective. I am looking forward to a step-by-step development in the coming years. As I said, this is one of the issues that must be dealt with, but it must also be financed. It is a fact that there is a fragility in the system that it is important to highlight in different contexts. But I do not think there are any simple solutions to this, but we will have to work patiently together.
i-444d246a996643ff-376	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. Let us go to the other side of the Baltic Sea and Finland where you have a completely different thought on this issue. With a dependency ratio of approximately 80 per cent, Finland is able to provide food for its inhabitants for up to 12 months. In Sweden it goes at best for 12 days, and a normal year we have it very tough. How will what the Minister said be felt in our country?
i-444d246a996643ff-379	Mr President, I would like to Finland drew completely different conclusions from many other countries when the Cold War ended, and I believe that Finland was right in many of its conclusions. Like many other countries, Sweden pulled down a lot, and we now have a long way to go. It is not as simple as simply referring to Finland, but we need to find a Swedish solution to this. All parties in the Riksdag have a homework to do, and in the first reports from the Swedish Defence Committee we can find some thoughts about the future. But it's not free.
i-444d246a996643ff-382	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Education Anna Ekström because the Riksdag has decided that there should be order reviews at school. There has been a debate and discussion for a long time on how to deal with the problems associated with messy and noisy students. They create messy environments, leading to both anxiety and insecurity for the students who are staying in them. It is a bit the same theme that Roger Haddad was on earlier, but I had no idea, Minister. We already have a lot of tools today, and the government is making various investments. Not least, a large number of crowns have been added to the budget to get more teachers' assistants, social educators and more in the school environment. Does the Minister see order reviews as an effective and relevant tool to achieve the important objective of safety and education at school?
i-444d246a996643ff-387	Mr President, I would like to It is tricky to answer such a question because the Riksdag has supported the order reviews. I have full respect for Parliament's decisions and will of course come back to how we take care of this announcement. But since the question is asked, I have to say what I think. I think it is to push far beyond the goal of introducing order reviews in the Swedish school. Even today, our hardworking teachers and principals can communicate with the parents of the students. They can write various forms of judgment or give them verbally. I find it very unfortunate to introduce a system in which all Sweden's well-behaved students will give rise to long dramas in the form of order reviews from already hard-pressed teachers. However, I am a minister who accepts the rules of parliamentary procedure and will, of course, come back to how we are going to deal with this announcement.
i-444d246a996643ff-391	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I have a supplementary question. Security and study in school is a priority, both for the government and in the agreement we have reached with the Centers, Liberals and the Green Party. How do the Minister and the Government intend to work on this issue so that we can really move forward and reach the goal?
i-444d246a996643ff-393	Mr President, I would like to Maybe that's what annoys me the most about this. We really need to do more to give our teachers and principals really good tools to maintain security and study. We will work on a national plan and provide greater opportunities to turn off and relocate students who mess up. We will also work on introducing a ban on disturbing mobile telephony during classes. What we're not supposed to do, I think, is lay down a education responsibility for the students of our hardworking teachers and principals. As a matter of fact, we're gonna have to do that for parents.
i-444d246a996643ff-396	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Isabella Lövin. A few days ago there was a UN report which clearly shows that we are living in the sixth mass extermination. The existence of some 1 million species is under threat. This is also happening in Sweden. Here's one in ten species examined redlisted. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's report to the EU shows that biodiversity is also heavily crowded at home. In 2018, the Government invested SEK 1.4 billion in protection of valuable nature and SEK 1.2 billion in management of valuable nature. It is therefore a matter of both protection and management of a valuable nature. I am curious: What has been the government's commitment to the environment and nature produced?
i-444d246a996643ff-401	Mr President, I would like to I thank Rebecka Le Moine for an important question. Let me remind you that when the M-KD budget went through, these appropriations were halved. Now that the UN report, which came on Monday, shows how extremely important it is to protect and even restore nature, I am very pleased that we have a January agreement and that we will be able to present a budget in Parliament where we are restoring much of these appropriations. We have been able to build new wetlands, which is extremely important for endangered species. We have been able to protect over 59 000 hectares of land, which is absolutely necessary to protect particularly key biotope-rich land. We have also been able to build state led systems in the mountains so that we make nature accessible – to connect with Rasmus Ling's question about how people can get out into nature.
i-444d246a996643ff-404	Mr President, I would like to I thank Isabella for her answer. As we know, the term of office began with Mr M and Mr KD presenting the napkin sketches, where these two appropriations were halved. With our amending budget, we have now added EUR 150 million for protection and EUR 200 million for management. However, WWF recommends SEK 10 billion just to achieve goals in terms of protection of valuable forests. How does the Minister think we can achieve our national targets?
i-444d246a996643ff-408	Mr President, I would like to Before the M-KD budget went through, we were actually on the way to achieving our national objectives in terms of protection of a valuable nature. Now we are not really going to make it by 2020, which is very regrettable. But since the Green Party joined the government, over a thousand areas, new or expanded, have been protected. We have therefore significantly increased the pace of this work, which is necessary.
i-444d246a996643ff-411	Mr President, I would like to The number of fatal accidents at our workplaces has increased markedly. In January we had the highest number of deaths in ten years, as many as nine. It is the fourth year in a row that the deaths are increasing, and the trend is in quite the opposite direction to the government's zero vision. In 2018, 58 people died. There is a great deal of criticism of the government, which in fact has authority responsibilities, about lack of coordination between authorities, too little resources, lack of clarity and so on. The government has had overall authority responsibility for five years and has thus had five years to improve the situation but not succeeded.
i-444d246a996643ff-415	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Saila Quicklund, for the question! The government takes this development and the increased number of deaths at work very seriously. We have a health and safety strategy that runs until 2020 and where there is a zero vision, as the honourable Member pointed out. A number of measures have been taken during the previous parliamentary term, and in view of the very dark beginning of this year, the government has taken a number of measures. On 18 April, we decided to commission Statskontoret to evaluate the current work environment strategy in order to develop a new strategy. The Minister for Labour has flagged that other measures may be needed to prevent fatal accidents and that this should be given a priority role in the forthcoming strategy, because it is totally unacceptable that people should die at work. We see how it has declined historically, but it is still at a far too high level.
i-444d246a996643ff-420	Mr President, I would like to My question is put to Minister Isabella Lövin. There is now an EP election, and the social pillar is currently on the table. It is based on 20 principles in three categories: equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions, social protection and social inclusion. Initially, the government parties promised that the proposals in the social pillar would not be binding, but a number of proposals have already been made that are just being imposed. On 16 April it was voted on the Working Conditions Directive, which was endorsed by the Government. There are some good things in the pillar, we think, but this is something that the European Union should not decide. In the long run, it will challenge Swedish self-determination. In the long term, the directive could jeopardise our entire Swedish model, and there is a great deal of disagreement between the parties on this issue. My question is: is the government repeatedly being fooled by the EU, or is it the case that the government repeatedly deceives the Swedish people by saying that it should not affect us when it subsequently becomes law?
i-WELiohmw9371NXzXwnYwEy	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Alexander Christiansson, for the question! The social pillar of the European Union is a voluntary agreement on certain principles in which we shall work together and also learn from each other. We see that many countries in Europe have not come nearly as far as Sweden in terms of social security and social security systems that take care of parental leave, and the Swedish labour market model is something that we consistently protect in the EU context but which has also proven to be very successful, unlike minimum wage schemes. We want to continue to have exchanges with other EU countries on these issues. In some cases it may be that we can go forward with minimum legislation, when we know that this does not adversely affect us.
i-444d246a996643ff-427	Mr President, I would like to The climate can't wait. Massive measures are needed to bring about the transition. The S-MP government has launched a series of measures to forcefully shift Sweden in a more sustainable direction. For me as a social democrat, it is inexplicably important that the work is carried out in a way that leaves no one behind and that promotes sustainable growth and development throughout the country. Conversion work must cover everyone and offer far more opportunities than obstacles. I would therefore like to address my question to Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Isabella Lövin: How does the government ensure that the transition takes place in a way that results in more jobs and reduced divides between people and senders?
i-DhNTK93aZoZZrb7Y5ntWNn	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hanna Westerén, for this important question! The green transition will cover the whole country and also provide new opportunities, not least for those living in rural areas. When we invest and force biofuels to enter petrol and diesel tanks, it is the Swedish forest industries and biorefineries that are made possible throughout Sweden that will create employment and secure economically good conditions for everyone. Climate change is an investment programme that basically covers all municipalities around the country, and we see that thousands of new jobs have been created through it, but not just there. We also see wind power, which is a growing sector where many people have new jobs around the country. Solar cells are another example, and the other day the industry said that you need at least 8 000 new people in this industry.
i-444d246a996643ff-433	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Education Anna Ekström. Swedish soil and forest are some of our most important industries of the future, which are currently screaming for skills and employment. It is lacking everywhere throughout the industry and applies especially to those who want to work with animals. We see that the agricultural upper secondary schools run for high pressure. They have diversified a lot with horse training, construction training and such things, but at present there are not enough people with qualified knowledge coming out to the green industries. Moreover, we can see that our foreign-born young people do not find their way to this industry at all. What is the Minister's idea of how we can move forward and feed the green industries with labour?
i-444d246a996643ff-437	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, John Widegren, for an important question! When I'm out meeting employers, skills provision and access to the right skilled labour force is priority one, priority two and priority three. The government had a ready-made proposal that was put on the table of Parliament during the last parliamentary term and that was about how we should strengthen the professional programmes. Because this is a lot about the upper secondary school's professional programme, which has lost much appeal. Unfortunately, the Riksdag voted down this proposal, which was a great disappointment for me but also for the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and all member organisations there and for LO, TCO and Saco and their member organisations. In fact, I have never experienced such strong support from the industry as the support we received for the very important proposal we put forward. Unfortunately, the Riksdag voted it down, and the first person to call me and be sad about it was the chairman of the National Association of Natural Agricultural Upper Secondary School. I hope that we can come back with proposals and that Parliament will make a wiser decision at that time.
i-444d246a996643ff-442	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Isabella Lövin. At the beginning of this term of office, the political situation was open, and it was not clear which government was going to take office or which tax policy would be up to date. In the autumn, we chose Swedish democrats to support an M-KD budget, where, among other things, the air tax was abolished because it lacks a proven climate effect and also hits the rural economy hard. Studies show that aircraft emissions have been drastically reduced since the 1980s, mainly through technological advances, not through fiscal incentives. In addition, Sweden, which is a large country in the EU, accounts for a fraction of aviation emissions. The new left-wing liberal government then chooses against better knowledge to reintroduce the harmful air tax. My question to the Government is: What long-term effects on urbanisation in Sweden does the Government believe it will be when the conditions for aviation in Sweden are reduced?
i-U1TMCVFj4F9zEBjswj3yZx	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Eric Westroth, for the question! That was not a correct description. We have seen a doubling of aviation in Sweden since the early 1990s, and this is an increase that is not sustainable from a climate point of view. In addition, we are working and investing to offer alternative ways to travel in Sweden through large, historic investments in the railway budget, and we will build high-speed trains. A domestic air tax of SEK 60, which applies throughout Europe, is hardly what hinders the development of Sweden. On the other hand, we see that people are now starting to think about the issue of flying and that the increase in flying has decreased. The forecast is that the flight will decrease. I believe that we should be able to live and function throughout the country, and we can do this today with existing means of transport – the railways and the aircraft that exist.
i-444d246a996643ff-450	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. When the Cold War days were over, the Swedish defence began to be dismantled. In 2010, the then alliance government hit the nail in the coffin and made general military service dormant. Now we agree that Sweden needs a strengthened defence because of an uncertain situation in our surrounding world. As many of you will know, military service was reintroduced in 2017 under the rule of the Social Democrats. During the period when military service was dormant, many officers stopped. They went to other professions. During 2020, the Swedish Defence Agency expects to train about 5,000 conscripts. After that, the number will increase in the coming years. To train conscripts, more officers are needed.
i-444d246a996643ff-454	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this important question. The Swedish Armed Forces state that they can complete basic training for up to 6,000 conscripts with current access to officers. Nevertheless, the supply of officers is considered to be a major challenge in the coming years. There is an outflow mainly due to pension departures. Increasing the number of people undergoing basic training and compulsory military service also increases the number who can apply for officers' training. We thus have a platform where many more people who were perhaps not previously interested have the opportunity to take an interest in this profession. We have also reinstated officers who have left the Swedish Armed Forces. In 2018, 70 were reinstated. We also have a project called More Ways In, where you can offer a shorter officer training to graduates who have military basic education. Then we can note an increased number of applicants for the Swedish Defence University's officer programme.
i-444d246a996643ff-457	Mr President, I would like to Soon we are going to elections in 28 countries. But there are still some countries in the Western Balkans that would very much like to join the company. Some of them have not celebrated 74 years of peace but 24 years of peace, which means that they have completely different challenges from what we have in the rest of Europe. These challenges include high unemployment. In these countries, the climate issue is getting far down on the agenda. The consequence is a great deal of pollution in the communities around these countries, where plastic is an extreme problem.
i-444d246a996643ff-459	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Jasenko for the question. Plastic in our seas and in nature is a global issue that has come much higher on the agenda. From the Swedish side, we support developing countries through our assistance to enable them to develop recycling systems and waste management systems. At European level, of course, we do not provide aid. On the other hand, we need to have a common policy and establish a number of recycling possibilities, and we are pushing for plastic refineries. We are also pushing to ban the export of plastic waste from the Union under the Basel Convention, because this is environmentally hazardous waste if it ends up in nature. Unfortunately, we have seen that plastic from Europe ends up in the sea in Asia when it has been exported to countries in Asia. So we're working to ban it.
i-444d246a996643ff-462	Mr President, I would like to In this area, the Left Party has only one reservation, reservation 13, to which I call for approval. I will also devote my entire speech to this reservation, although of course there are many other areas that are important to talk about. But I am content to talk about the reservation. The dream of academic freedom, free and critical research and working life with a high ceiling often crumbles quickly when new PhD students set foot inside the university's doors. Within the framework of academia, structures are often tough and hierarchies strong, especially when it comes to gender equality. Although it has been almost 150 years since the first woman, on exemption from the king, studied at universities in Sweden, we still have an academy dominated by men. When Ellen Fries defended her doctorate in 1883, she was the first woman in Sweden to receive a doctorate. During her public defence, one of the professors said that he hoped that she was not only the first of her kind but that she was also the last – that is, the last woman. It is an attitude that seems to prevail beneath the surface of parts of today's universities as well, although some male doctoral students and researchers appreciate having something beautiful to look at or someone to get coffee. These are some of the lines that today's women in academia have encountered. Research in universities cannot be seen in a vacuum. Equal opportunities for people to research regardless of gender and class is a prerequisite for a democratically established academy and for quality-based research where it is the competence that determines, not gender or friendships. We know that women are disadvantaged the higher the education system. A recent report from Allbright states that women made up about half of economic students and have done so since the beginning of the 1990s. Forty-four per cent of doctoral students and 34 per cent of senior lecturers in economics are women. But less than every fifth professor is a woman. It is therefore 50 percent students, 40 percent doctoral students, 30 percent lecturers and less than 20 percent professors who are women. The trend is very clear and telling. Today, overall, more women than men are studying. Of the graduates in 2016/17, 64 per cent were women. But of those who were admitted to doctoral studies that same year, only a small majority were women. Of those who have been admitted to doctoral studies, more men than women have a PhD position, have a different position at the university or are business doctoral students. Women are more dependent on employment outside the university or in other ways. Women are thus systematically disadvantaged in academia. The men are given the services, and the women are allowed to come forward as best they can. Of course, it also makes it easier for men to qualify during their doctoral studies that they do not have to work alongside them. Despite the structures that disadvantage women, there are women who succeed. In a study on the large research grants, so-called excellence initiatives, it was concluded that women make up approximately 30 percent of Sweden's top researchers. It's a low figure, but it's still 30%. Despite this, it turns out that women receive less than 20% of research funding for excellent research. Excellency is thus given to male researchers who are not as excellent researchers as their female colleagues. The funds for basic research are also allocated to men more than to women. The problems exist at many levels. These are structures that reward men during doctoral studies and then structures that reward men when posts are appointed and research funds are allocated. Gender equality work also differs between universities and higher education institutions. Some universities are far-sighted and ambitious. Others see equality as a non-issue. The delegation for gender equality in the university writes in its accounting Gender equality in the university – will it now be arranged once and for all? that the image of the academy is disappointing. It is an organisation characterised by norms and values that confirms men as superiors and an organisation where there are different conditions for women's and men's qualifications and career development. That is why the Left Party in its motion proposes that the state-funded research grant should be distributed equally and that a maximum of 50 per cent should go to men who do research. We also want to investigate the possibility of introducing a gender equality bonus in the universities' basic grants to promote gender balance in research and academia. We cannot continue to have an academy and research that rewards men, and we do not have time to wait for it to resolve itself. Mr President, I would like to There is currently no effective police research in Sweden. Most of the people involved in police-related research are criminologists, psychologists and sociologists. Yesterday I received information about biological traces and DNA analysis in Swedish forensic science. This is something that is extremely valuable to be able to link perpetrators to crime via, for example, DNA. But research in the field does not take place in police research, but in other research areas. With police research, cooperation could take place between forensic research and police science. The Left Party believes that it must be possible for police officers to research the methods and working methods of the profession in order to support the development of police results. The subject of police science should become the academic basis on which police education is based. Of course, police science should be a research subject of its own in which police officers can doctorate and research. If police education becomes part of the regular higher education world, it also means that research and collaboration with other fields of education can be developed, such as cooperation between police and forensic science. We therefore want to review the possibility of setting up a police science research institute.
i-444d246a996643ff-475	Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a prominent knowledge nation, where education, research and innovation are conducted with high quality and efficiency. Research plays a crucial role in growth and development and in ensuring welfare in the longer term, not least in health care. As I described in more detail in my previous speech when we discussed the university area, we Christian Democrats believe that the state should take over responsibility for health care. Shorter waiting times, specialist skills, national guidelines and the best treatment methods can then benefit everyone, regardless of where they live in the country. Equal access to, not least, orphan drugs and innovative treatments can have a bearing on life and death. A government headship for healthcare is also crucial to create better conditions for clinical research and development. A scientific evaluation of treatment methods in healthcare is necessary to counteract unnecessary treatment interventions and prevent over-treatment with medicines, but also, of course, to address under-treatment and facilitate continuous care and care, in particular, of possibly multi-sick elderly patients. It is a growing group of patients who have a great need for care. In addition, strong and successful clinical research and life science depend on the profession being able to efficiently collect and access patient and health data. It is crucial for generating new knowledge and for developing innovative treatment methods. This is best achieved through national responsibility for health care. Mr President, I would like to Higher education and research must take advantage of interested talents in order to maintain Sweden's competitiveness. We Christian Democrats are therefore calling for clearer and more predictable career paths for researchers and university teachers. We would like to see a national career ladder with clear steps where the appointment of all academic positions is based on scientific quality and educational competence. Transparent, quality-assured and equal criteria as well as peer review by external independent experts are self-evident. In my speech in the previous debate on the subject of higher education, I described the Christian Democrats' proposal to make it possible to have a combined employment relationship between a higher education institution and a secondary school. According to the Higher Education Act and the Higher Education Ordinance, a clinical researcher at a university or higher education institution can at the same time maintain a position as a specialist doctor or psychologist in health care, but only if the service in the region is linked to clinical tasks. Opening up for combination positions in other areas would be one way to increase job security in academia and, not least, to improve the possibility of combining research with family life. More PhDs could remain within the academy and conduct strategic research on a part-time basis as they are not in danger of being made redundant from the university due to lack of work during a period with fewer awarded research grants. This is something that I know my research colleagues at various universities around the country would appreciate. These combination positions could also address the acute shortage of teachers in upper secondary school, while strengthening the link between upper secondary education, higher education and research. That would benefit the whole community. Mr President, I would like to We will come back with more in-depth comments on the Steering and Resource Investigation, but I would like to stress right now that we Christian Democrats believe that the balance of the system for allocating funds should be reviewed. Consideration should be given to whether a larger grant allocation for research should be given directly to universities in order to strengthen their ability to direct and offer clearer career paths and employment conditions. This would provide longer-term job security and allow researchers to spend more time actually researching. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to highlight an area in which we Christian Democrats believe that more research and knowledge is needed. Good conditions and conditions in working life are central to keeping sick leave rates down. But with digital development, new structures and conditions have crystallized in the working lives of many people, and it is unclear how this affects our health. The clear framework and limitations of working life in many occupations in the past are now gone. The limits on when and where the work is to be carried out and when to be expected to be available to colleagues, employers, customers and clients via e-mails and mobiles, for example, are often unclear today. Instead, working conditions are increasingly characterised by limitlessness and flexibility. Flexible solutions often benefit the employee. Especially parents appreciate the benefits of flexible working hours. This is shown, among other things, by the Union of Trade Unions. Flexibility increases freedom and creates greater opportunities for the employee to influence and direct his or her own work. This makes it easy to reconcile family and working life. Mr President, I would like to This is fundamentally positive, but the same flexible solutions also create expectations of being available and doing work in principle around the clock – in the evenings, on weekends, during vacations and when children are sick. This can be difficult to say no to if it has been established as a norm in the workplace. We see a risk of both increased stress and less time for recovery, which, of course, can also have a negative impact on family life. Politics and legislation are too blunt a tool to address the problems and stress that the new frontierless working life is likely to create for families and individuals. However, regulation would probably make it more difficult for both business and family life. Nevertheless, we Christian Democrats want to highlight the need for more knowledge about the conditions of modern working life. We need to understand better how it affects family life, personal health and the well - being of children. Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise that I support all of the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats in the report, but for time to come, I only support our reservation No 2 in paragraph 1.
i-HSCCpR654AfnkPWKja2N3U	Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservation 7 in the report. When you turn on your mobile phone and press the Bluetooth function, which you need to do sometimes, there are probably not many people in here who think that technology evolved like that ten minutes bike path from my home in Lund. There are quite a few such technological innovations that we do not think about have been invented, developed or become a product in our country. There are few things that so clearly show that Sweden is a knowledge nation that when you notice that a new technology has a Swedish character, we can call it Made in Sweden. It creates for me a sense of pride, that our country is something you can really feel proud of. Sweden should be a world-leading research nation. We're supposed to be a country that doesn't just award Nobel Prizes. We're also getting Nobel Prizes. We're not there today. When we look out over Europe, the United States and other countries, we see that Sweden is not now the country we want to be. We see how investments in research and development take place in other countries and not in Sweden. We see how the Swedish pharmaceutical sector, which is very linked to research, is growing very strong in Denmark and the UK but not at all in the same way in Sweden. We see how in recent years we have expelled competent people who have come to our country. These competence demonstrations mean that engineers, programmers or others are allowed to leave Sweden when we need those people most. It makes our country weaker, it makes the world worse and it means that we are not the research nation and the knowledge society we want to be. Mr President, I would like to Quality must lead higher education and research. We're supposed to be a country that makes sure we invest in the best research. We dare to concentrate our resources on a few higher education institutions where the best research is carried out. Research is conducted throughout Sweden, but we must dare to say that we invest money where research is most useful and where we can get the best quality of the research we conduct. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a formation nation. In it is that we should protect the free academy. It shall be free from political governance. The university should not be an instrument of political agendas and identity politics. We should not go in Hungary's direction where politicians try to control what is to be said and what agenda should be in our universities and colleges. It is time, here and now, to put an end to the identity policy which is spreading and which makes the free academy less free and makes it run in different ways. Mr President, I would like to If Sweden is to be a nation of knowledge and we are to be able to safeguard the free academy, we must ensure that young people who choose to research and defend their thesis stay in Sweden and that they can qualify as a young researcher. This is the most important investment we can make to ensure that Sweden is also a knowledge nation in the future. Then today's system that creates uncertainty for many people is not enough and there is no clarity as to who can and who is qualified. That system must be changed and improved. Mr President, I would like to We will invest in research and development. We will ensure that we invest big money in research and development. It is an important part of building a more modern society. The climate issue is not solved by placard politics or bans. It is solved by technological advances and technological developments. When Elon Elon develops Tesla, when we now see how the electric car seems to be the type of climate-friendly car we have all dreamed of and that it looks like it can become a reality, it is because technological development is driving that change. This is not because we in this House have decided that it should be an electric car. It is not political, detailed and tricky decisions that solve this type of social problem. It is technological development, and research plays a very important role there. If we are to solve the climate issue, the investments we make in research and development play a major role. If we are to ensure that in Sweden we develop the latest technology to solve the climate issue, we must dare to invest in research and development. We must make Sweden a world-leading research nation. It makes our country more modern. It makes our country better, and above all it makes it possible for our country to be a nation of knowledge we can be proud of in the future.
i-444d246a996643ff-501	Mr President, I would like to We are now discussing the motions from Members who came in this autumn on research. That's 60 claims and 16 reservations. I was also thinking here in this debate, as in the recent university debate, about what the government has done in the field of research during the previous term of office. The funding has been increased by 1.3 billion to promote strong and responsible universities. Young researchers have been given more secure and improved conditions by, among other things, abolishing the training grant for doctoral students in favour of employment and measures to improve qualifications. It has invested in internship school research and established research programmes on racism. Research in humanities and social sciences has been strengthened. Ten-year research programmes have been launched on migration and integration, antibiotic resistance, applied welfare research, occupational research, sustainable social development and climate. There is an emphasis on social housing policy. Sweden's first space strategy has been developed. An ESS coordinator has been set up and a strategy has been developed for ESS to become a world leader. A life science office has been set up and a roadmap has been drawn up. Measures have been taken to combat research fraud. Five strategic collaborative programmes have been set up for innovation and competitiveness, for next generation travel and transport, for smart cities, for circular bio-based economy, for life science, for connected industry and new materials, and for much more. The Government has invested in strengthening the research capacity of higher education institutions and young universities. The basic money was raised from SEK 8 000 to SEK 12 000 per student. It is important that the basic appropriations are increased. This strengthens basic research and the situation of younger researchers, for example by allowing doctoral students to be employed from day one. Research must meet global and national societal challenges. The 2016 Research Bill identified five such challenges. It was the climate challenge, digitalisation, health and life sciences, the creation of sustainable social construction and increased quality in the Swedish school. As you heard me say just now, both the ten-year research programmes and strategic cooperation programmes have been launched on the basis of these challenges. It's important. Of course, there is more to be done. The other week I participated when the Sulf professors association had a seminar about a report that they have produced called No time for research – about professors' working conditions 2018. It gave a picture that professors' reality looks like they have 0 – 100 percent research time. It is serious that there is so much difference and that we do not in all places use the highly educated to do exactly what they have gone all the way to doing, namely research. At the same time, it is extremely important that the students at our universities get in close contact with the researchers during their studies. This is partly in order for them to have access to the latest research via the person who has been involved, and partly in order for them to have role models and want to become researchers themselves. A mix of teaching and research time is of course the most optimal. In Easter week I visited Mittuniversitetet and learned more about the unique cooperation agreements between the university and the municipalities. They are based on the challenges you see municipally. It can be about very different things. You always start with a big meeting. Then there's a scouting between servants and scientists. Eventually, after a thorough quality review, they land in concrete research projects. Just today, the fifth round of such collaboration programmes with the surrounding society has been launched. It's extremely interesting. It is something that also makes it important for research funds to be distributed to all our universities and colleges in order to really benefit all of us. There is an enormous amount of exciting research going on around our country. It is research that we should be careful of and that we should contribute to in the best way so that it develops. Of course, more can be done. As a former county council – at the time the county councils were called the county councils – I am particularly interested in the research that is done with user participation. There, other countries may have come further than Sweden has. I look forward to us also taking greater steps here, because it is always the person who is affected by illness or disability who knows his body best and who can be an important co-player in the development of research. As an example, when patient organisations participated in a study of the use of drugs, the parameter quality of life came as a measure. This is extremely important. Research really concerns the whole of society. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-444d246a996643ff-516	Mr President, I would like to Research should be free; it is self-evident. It's even constitutionally protected. The research should be driven by curiosity and curiosity and by a desire to discover, move on, see something new and see connections. That is how we want it, and then we are talking mainly about basic research at our universities. The applied research, in industry, often has other premises and driving forces. For research to be successful, good environments are needed. Of course, funding is needed which is allocated to the best projects or to the best-cased projects. Research posts shall be filled in competition on merit. This is how we build good and strong research environments. One problem we have today is that too many departments and faculties at higher education institutions are populated by staff, teachers and researchers, with precarious employment. These are short open-ended employment contracts, timvikari in education and part-time employment. You can basically go through a full career through the academy, after the public defence, with this type of employment stacked on each other or twisted with periods of unemployment. We heard in the previous debate that Associate Professor Pia Steensland of the Christian Democrats had to wait 13 years after the public defence for a permanent position. I've been waiting for almost 10 years myself, and I'm still waiting. Many university teachers and researchers are also forced to jump between different positions at departments or universities. That's not good! It is not good for the individual teacher or researcher. It creates confusion in the private economy. If you do not have a permanent job, it is difficult to get a loan, for example to get a home. Of course, it means stress not knowing if you have an income next year or next semester. But it does not create a secure research environment either. It affects research. Mr President, I would like to Not long ago, a large number of employees at SVT Kultur signed a call for bad employment conditions on SVT. It was noticed, perhaps because there were some famous TV profiles in the roll call. They felt that the poor employment conditions with just short fixed-term contracts and the like were insecure. Insecure journalists produce insecure journalism. So said Daniel Sjölin, who became something of a spokesperson for the roll call. I think I see the same pattern in academia, where insecure researchers produce unsafe research. It is time to pay attention to these abuses, including in academia, and to do something about them. It is not a new problem; it has been this way at least as long as I can remember. And I've been working in academia, or university, since the mid-1990s. Investigations have been set up, but problems are obviously difficult to overcome. We need to work to ensure that more university teachers have permanent employment contracts, i.e. permanent jobs as senior lecturer or assistant lecturer, and that fewer people have fixed-term employment contracts. The ostrich investigation, which we have previously talked about, proposes a redistribution of funds from the research councils to fixed grants to the higher education institutions. That could be part of the solution, but then we must ensure that this money goes precisely to hiring more people on permanent posts. The administration has increased. Sometimes you hear that research and higher education are not evaluated. Nothing could be more wrong. An enormous amount of text is produced around the activities of our universities. Soon every seminarime with students will be evaluated. Articles peer-reviewed, and theses reviewed. Of course, the research should be examined so that it is of high quality. But it is a huge administrative superstructure in the rest of the business as well. Calling out services within academia is, to say the least, an adventure, to apply for a position as well. Terriblely many pages of paper should be written, submitted and examined. It rarely takes less than six months to carry out a simple substitute contract. It is just one example of how administration and evaluation have expanded and taken time and resources from core activities: education and research. Changing this is, of course, something that takes time, but I think it is time to look at it too. There are some suggestions in the ostrich investigation, but I am not sure that they are sufficient for this particular problem. There are some motions in the report that involve increased administration. I think you should think about it before you wake up that kind of exercise. What we need is more permanent jobs and less administration. We need to make it easier to hire researchers and redeploy resources. We need more merit services that are followed up for clearer and more transparent career paths. This will give us safer researchers, stronger research environments and better research. The research should be free; there I agree with Robert Stenkvist from the Swedish Democrats in his previous speech. However, when he had said that there was some confusion when he proposed that this freedom be broken by major government efforts on old, expensive and outdated technology – nuclear. I do not think politicians should interfere in the allocation of funds. Of course, we can locate certain areas where we need to make certain efforts in research, or perhaps even better in education. I mentioned in my last speech both teacher training and AI. But if I had been a member of a research council, I would probably have pulled my ears off if I had received an application for nuclear research. I think I'd considered it money in the lake. It is outdated technology, possibly with one exception, which the Swedish Democrats also mention in their motion: we still do not know what to do with the waste. It is matter that is extremely dangerous to all living n the planet, human beings, animals and plants, for perhaps hundreds of thousands of years. How do we hide such things for so long? Maybe we should find out now that we've produced that kind of material. Mr President, I would like to I would like to raise another subject. In a few weeks' time we will have a choice, and I would like to say something about that too. For at a time when disinformation, alternative facts and strong anti-democratic forces are increasingly making themselves known throughout the world and across Europe, we must stand up and defend democratic values in Sweden and in Europe. Education and training are the best defence against the attacks on democracy. Therefore, it is so important that we invest in both research and education, for more, here at home in Sweden. But it is serious that higher education and research are under threat, especially in those parts of Europe where they would be most needed. Access to literature and research data is of course essential if you are to have quality in education. However, research colleagues from Romania whom I have met testify in talks about empty libraries or about libraries where the last books were acquired in the 70's. Then it will be difficult to conduct research and education. Of course, it is even worse in Hungary, where Viktor Orbán's party prevents free speech, throws universities out of the country and prevents education on certain subjects, such as gender studies. Stockholm University's Vice-Chancellor commented in the latest issue of SULF's newspaper, the University teacher, just that last one, the attacks on gender science, and called it an unprecedented state intervention in university life in modern times. I can't help but agree. I think that Europe needs to do something about this. Universities and higher education institutions must be free, and academic freedom must be defended. At the same time, however, I note that in the report we are discussing in this House today, the Swedish Democrats, but also a moderate in an individual motion, have similar proposals on gender studies. Mr President, I would like to I call for their rejection and for all the other motions in the report. I call for the proposal of the training cone to be approved in report No 14.
i-444d246a996643ff-534	Mr President, I would like to After all, I promised a line, and we have both talked about nuclear power. First of all, I would like to mention this with politically-driven research. As I mentioned, we have strategic research areas. It is to some extent politically controlled research, where we think something is of social importance. In addition, I and the Swedish Democrats really protect the academic freedom of higher education institutions. I talked to a guy from KTH, I think it was, and he meant that the research on nuclear energy that researchers want to do is basically being opposed. Nor is it academic freedom. We must allow natural research into nuclear power. Then it is really hard to start it up again when it has gone down at a very low level. I think that Mats Berglund's speech was largely very positive and good. I agree with a lot, actually. Mats Berglund mentioned the waste, Mr President, and in my turn I mentioned the fourth generation of nuclear power plants. What are they doing? Well, they consume the waste. And when the waste is consumed in fourth generation nuclear power plants, it is much more harmless. Of course, it is not harmless, but it has a much lower half-life than the nuclear waste originally had. I hope I now have time for the question I had intended to ask from the beginning. The Green Party talks a lot about carbon dioxide emissions. It's almost a little repetition, if I may be so rude. But nuclear power produces enormous amounts of energy without emitting carbon dioxide. Fourth generation nuclear power plants are very safe. Is it just a hang-up from the Green Party?
i-444d246a996643ff-540	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Robert Stenkvist, for the question! Of course, it is wonderful to debate nuclear power. I find it difficult to understand why the Swedish Democrats and Robert Stenkvist think that nuclear research should be a strategic area. On the other hand, I find it easier to understand why nuclear scientists consider themselves opposed. As I said in my speech, if I were in a group like this that allocates funds, I would probably not give funds to nuclear power. I think there's money in the lake. It will not be translated into any practical activity. Nuclear power is old. It's old technology. It's expensive. It's dangerous. It would also take a very long time to build new facilities. Robert Stenkvist talks about the fourth generation, but we don't really have it here. It may be somewhere in the future but so far ahead that we have already made the transition that we must make. Today we have alternatives that are cheap, that are climate-friendly and that work in the circular economy. We must invest in sun and wind and renewables. At this point, investing in old, expensive and dangerous technologies would delay and prevent the effort that we actually have to make to cope with energy supply in the future. If I have time, I would also like to say that nuclear power is not, in fact, entirely emission-free. Nuclear power plants will be built, uranium will be mined, it will be transported and it will be stored. All of this generates emissions, not only of coal but also of other things.
i-444d246a996643ff-545	Mr President, I would like to No, uranium should not be mined with fourth generation nuclear power plants. They use old fuel that is then consumed and becomes much more harmless. It is true that we do not have fourth generation nuclear power here. That is precisely why we need research on it. And it's a lot safer. The accidents at Chernobyl and Harrisburg are not comparable to the new, modern fourth generation nuclear power plants. It's like comparing an old PV-Volvo with modern, crash-proof cars. It just can't be done. Mats Berglund mentions wind power. I do not want to sound like Björklund here; I am not liberal. But he is right in one thing: When it does not blow, no electricity is produced by wind power. It's not safe electricity. The entire electric pro d uktion in Sweden is like a huge flywheel. It has to be heavy, and it has to go all the time. Nor can we build any number of wind turbines. I am also a little interested in the environment, believe it or not – there are many who are shocked now. I suffer from all these birds of prey facing death in these wings. If we are now to propagate for wind power, why can no one come up with any technological innovation to prevent this massive bird death? And why is the Green Party not interested in such questions? You've turned into a one-question party. Excuse me, now Mats Berglund can represent the entire Green Party, but it sometimes sounds like you are a one-question party and ignore all other environmental issues. It's just carbon dioxide in the air. Environmentalists even see carbon dioxide with the naked eye nowadays.
i-444d246a996643ff-550	Mr President, I would like to No, we're not a one-question party. If you are calling for environmental issues other than climate, you can sit here and listen to the debates that environmental parties here in Parliament are conducting – not least on the important issues of forests or biodiversity. The threat to this planet is considered by many scientists to be a more acute threat to the planet than the climate threat. We'll remember that. Robert Stenkvist mentioned an old PV. The old cars were also new and considered safe and secure at one time, just as first generation nuclear power was considered to be the miracle cure that would save us from everything. Then it has been transferred to new generations, and now it is the fourth generation that will save us. That's not gonna work. And above all, the fourth generation is not here today. The truth is that any effort on nuclear energy, whatever its form, would delay and increase the conversions that we actually have to make. I would also like to mention that sun and wind may go down, but when it starts to blow again and when the sun comes back, it is quick to start producing energy again. A nuclear power plant going down takes a really long time to start up again. The fact that nuclear power is in any way production-proof is not at all true.
