i-d25377057a188513-3	Madam President, I would like On Monday we could read about a new climate report. It states that even if we were able to reach the 1.5-degree target, there are major consequences. For example, one third of the glaciers in the Himalayas, the third largest ice mass after the Arctic and the South Pole, will melt away. It would of course have major consequences, so great that 1.9 billion people would be affected in the form of extreme weather, droughts, floods and reduced food supply, access to water and energy supply. There are also fears of increased risk of landslides. We also have a responsibility for this. We in Sweden live above our resources and take off others'. Sweden wants to beat its chest over the fact that we are way ahead of the climate change. Of course we've done very well. But it is wrong to think that it is enough or that repair reductions, e-bike premiums and charging poles are enough. Of course we need a fast train. But even that is not enough investment for us to cope with the climate change that is actually needed. We could do so much more than we do. Let me say that this is absolutely necessary. Structural changes are needed. And there the AP funds are an extremely important tool, a real power factor, key players or whatever you want to call it. AP funds have made a lot of good and important progress in terms of climate investments and their work. Some of the AP funds do better work on this issue than others. But the most important thing remains. It is a matter of political will to take responsibility for the climate. It is not enough today. In that case, the regulatory framework for the AP Funds had changed more than has been done. AP funds are among the largest investors in the world. It goes without saying that their regulations are of great importance for the climate and for the survival of the fossil industry. We in the Left Party believe that there should be much tougher demands on the funds in terms of ethics and the environment. We believe that the investments of the funds should have the following guidelines: Their investments should be equated with the objective of high returns, i.e. that the environment and ethics should weigh as much as high returns. That is not the case today. Nor has this been the case after the recent change. Even now, high returns are superior to environmental and climate investments. The AP funds should not make any new investments in coal, oil or fossil gas, we believe. But they must also do so with the recently agreed regulatory framework. The Left Party also believes that the AP funds will phase out existing investments in the fossil industry within five years. All AP funds should also have quantitative targets for investments in renewable energy. And all AP funds will account for calculated greenhouse gas emissions for their investments. We also believe that AP funds should not invest in companies that use tax havens to avoid taxation. That regulatory framework would really make a difference – for climate, for justice and for our common future. We believe that these are very reasonable and absolutely necessary requirements. It is taking responsibility for the climate and for our common future. I would therefore like to support our reservation on this matter. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to highlight the worrying development of performance-based fees in the external portfolios of the AP funds. They have constantly increased over four years, despite the decline in externally managed capital. The performance-based fees have increased by as much as 19 per cent between 2016 and 2017. AP Funds' management costs also differ greatly, although they manage approximately the same amount of capital. The Second AP Fund, which has the highest management costs, costs 150 million more per year than the funds with the lowest costs. It doesn't make sense.
i-d25377057a188513-13	Madam President, I would like We are therefore debating the Finance Committee's report 6 Accounting for the activities of the AP funds even. 2017. I would now like to support the proposal in the report and reject it. We had a debate in this House on the past autumn, more specifically on 28 November, on changing the rules for the First – Fourth AP Funds. Much of what was said then also applies to this debate, including some motion requests. Some repetitions are therefore likely to occur. For my part, I said then – and this is also the case with this report – that a stable and sustainable pension system is an important basis for society. A pension system is also an expression of a social and generation contract. It's about trust and trust. The Swedish pension system is based on a broad cross-block agreement managed by the Pensions Group, which now includes six of Parliament's parties. It is, in many respects, a wise way of handling and nurturing political agreements of this nature. Madam President, I would like AP funds are important, fundamental parts of our pension system. They manage and place the so-called buffer in the income pension system. It is a buffer that currently covers just over SEK 1,400 billion. It has increased by approximately SEK 90 billion in 2017 and represents approximately 15 per cent of the total assets of the income pension. Our current pension system, its functioning, its quality and what it delivers and does not deliver are often the subject of a lively and important debate from time to time. It is a debate with which I have a great deal of sympathy. It is good and important, and I am convinced that it will continue. As was said in the debate in November, there is also some ongoing investigation into the AP Funds' investment rules, which we will certainly have reason to come back to in this House. The discussions on the future rules of the AP Funds will also be discussed in the Pensions Group and in the work on the application of the January Agreement, which also raises a point concerning AP Funds' investment policy conditions. Like I said, we'll have reason to come back. Madam President, I would like In the present letter, the government notes that all AP funds, i.e. First – Fourth, Sixth and Seventh AP Funds, meet the government's requirements and meet expectations. In a little more administrative Swedish prose, it is expressed as follows: The Swedish National Pension Fund has managed the net flow between the contributions and payments in the income pension scheme as intended. The Fund has also generated returns that contribute to the income pension system's long-term financing and actively worked with sustainability issues. All in all... AP-fonden met the government's expectations for the fund. Madam President, I would like The fact that AP funds have been able to deliver significant amounts of returns in 2017, i.e. close to SEK 90 billion, is seen in terms of the development of large parts of the financial market, not least the stock market, highly anticipated and reasonable. We have, of course, found ourselves in a very good economic situation with an initial almost escalating development of the stock markets, although this development has slowed down considerably in the autumn. Then, Madam President, it is particularly important to focus on the other parameters of the follow-up, in particular the development of costs and sustainability issues. As far as cost developments are concerned, there is reason to be critical scrutiny. Although the worrying trend from 2012 to 2015 with very strong cost increases has been broken, there are many and good reasons to be observant, partly because it is important that management is managed with care for pension money and with great care about pension savers' money, and partly because it is important to maintain confidence in the role and operations of the AP funds. In this area too, the new investment rules that we decided on in November and which apply from 1 January 2019 are likely to have significance. This decision involves, among other things, the abolition of requirements for external management, and it is precisely this, the external management, which has proved to be expensive and likely to drive costs. New investment rules thus apply from 1 January 2019. That is why, Madam President, it is not reasonable, as the Left Party, to demand further very detailed rules of placement. First, we must have a reasonable opportunity to see what the decisions we have already taken have to bear in mind. In addition, the issue mentioned will be further examined in the framework of the January Agreement, which will examine precisely the question of the location of the funds in fossil energy. Finally, there is perhaps reason to recall the overall objectives of the AP Funds within the framework of current investment rules. The AP Funds shall manage the funds so that they are of maximum benefit to the income pension system. The goal is to maximise the long-term return in relation to the risk in the investments. The funds are required to take environmental and ethical considerations into account in investment operations without compromising the overall objective of high returns. That is why, Madam President, I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-d25377057a188513-28	Madam President, I would like I wasn't going to ask for a line, but I did it for two reasons. To begin with, Ingemar Nilsson said that we are coming now and demanding a changed regulatory framework. I'd say we've been doing it for maybe ten years. Saying we're coming now is a little too strong. But it also says something about some of the problems surrounding the pension system. I'll get back to that. The main reason I asked for a reply was that Ingemar Nilsson said that a sustainable pension system should be based on trust and trust and that it is a generation contract. Yeah, I think it should be, too. But today's system does not meet those requirements. Let me explain why. Trust and trust are about people being able to know what they will retire once they retire. Today it is a very opaque and difficult to understand system. But above all, there are very many people who receive a pension that is absolutely impossible to live on. Seven out of ten municipal authorities depend on a guarantee pension. An industrial worker is estimated to receive about 53 percent of his previous income in retirement. During the 1980s, 80 per cent of their previous income was paid in retirement. The fact that this with generation contracts does not last is because we are investing in the fossil industry. I want my grandchildren to have a future too. Then we cannot allow our pension money to go to the most devastating climate, namely investment in the fossil fuel industry. If you are to have faith and trust in a system, you must also know what is going on and what changes are being discussed and not discussed. How can you affect the system? Now the group of six parties is sitting in a closed room, discussing closed meetings and not opening minutes. No one knows who's invited and no one knows who's denied. I would say that the system is not based on trust, trust and generation contracts.
i-d25377057a188513-33	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulla. Let me start by saying that for a second I do not doubt your perseverance in conducting a debate on this issue, and you have been doing it for ten years. What I meant by my speech was rather that the exact wording contained in the reservation and the exercise we discussed in November when we dealt with changed rules for the First – Fourth AP funds. Then I think that I have said with an engagement that it is a bit strong to put these rules once again under the bill. We have not had time to evaluate what the new rules will mean in the parts that you are so persistently discussing. These are, in particular, rules on location in the fossil fuel industry. I would just like to underline what I said in conclusion. What behavioral change can we see in the AP funds? This is, among other things, what is to be evaluated under the January Agreement. In terms of trust and trust and transparency in the pension system, we have decided quite a number of years ago that the pension system should be outside the state budget. It has been discussed in the Pensions Group and these proposals come from there. I think this is a pretty good way of managing the pension system. Trust and trust are about people knowing how the pension system works. In terms of education, we can be much better at explaining how it works, but I do not think there is much ignorance about the basics of the pension system. I think that's a violent exaggeration. On the other hand, there are different views on this, and I therefore welcome a debate on the pension system. I agree with Ulla Andersson's criticism of parts of the outcome of the pension system. But the solution to these problems lies primarily in the Swedish labour market, the right to full time, reasonable wage development and so on. It is not part of the construction of the pension system. For me, it is important that the pension system is a reflection of what income has been like during life, i.e. that the principle of loss of income should also apply to the pension system.
i-d25377057a188513-40	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is to a large extent a question of how the labour market works, of the right to full-time employment, of eliminating the large number of fixed-term contracts and of getting a decent wage for their work, which is not the case today in many professions. Nurses, for example, have a very low salary despite the great responsibility they have. What is happening now is that you are raising the retirement age without doing anything about the labour market, which means that women with worn-out bodies will be severely punished by the new changed rules. Of course, we adopted a changed regulatory framework for the AP funds in November. Even then we tried to influence the design. Although Ingemar Nilsson wants to wait for the impact of the new rules, I would say that much more needs to be done. If it takes so long to change a regulatory framework as it has – even though it has been known about the AP funds' major investments in the fossil industry and that they have invested in Bol ag that violates human rights and freedoms – I wonder: How long do we have? We do not have an eternal future to change the climate issue. We have to do that right now. The train's almost gone. To stand here in the speaker's chair and just say that we must wait and see, I do not think that is taking responsibility in a generation contract. I'd say so. I think we should have a sharper regulatory framework for the AP funds, although we have just changed that.
i-d25377057a188513-44	Madam President, I would like Let me just say, Ulla Andersson, that the initial debate you had is more about the functioning of the pension system. This debate is about the letter on accounting for the activities of the AP funds. It is important to keep this separate. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the shortcomings, failures, errors, differences between the sexes and different groups in the Swedish labour market must be corrected in the labour market, not in the pension system. The pension scheme shall be independent. As far as the shortcomings are concerned, I share Ulla Andersson's view that they should be corrected in the labour market, in trade union negotiations between the social partners. We will have a fair labour market in Sweden where all people will be able to work a full working life without being completely worn out and where they receive a reasonable pension. But it should not be resolved within the framework of the pension system. With regard to the issues of sustainability and so on, I still think that we should wait for the new investment rules. In part, unlike Ulla Andersson, I believe that the increased focus on sustainability issues and climate issues will also affect the financial market. When it becomes interesting for the big investors to see that sustainability issues are important and business-like, it will hopefully affect the behaviour of the financial market in a way that will allow us to see a shift to much more sustainable investments. If this is not the case, we will have reason to return.
i-d25377057a188513-47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. This is a technical discussion on a report on the activities of the AP funds. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report as a whole. As pointed out in the intensive debate just now, we have adopted a new regulatory framework for the AP funds, which means an increase in environmental considerations and greater consideration for sustainability and future generations. All parties belonging to the Pensions Group support this. And just as has just been pointed out from this speaker's seat, in order to maintain trust and security in the face of important decisions on the pension system, it is a wise order that these are taken in the Pensions Group, that is, the five parties included in it, and the extra government party that is currently present as a member of the government. So we have a wise order. Madam President, I would like It is also good that the government should return to Parliament with a letter of this kind. This allows us to closely monitor developments in the AP funds. They are very important for the pension system and for security and trust. But just how it is done may not be the basis for a broad reading in the folk home. I think what Ulla Andersson, among others, said and which the committee also writes in its opinion is important, namely that there may be concerns about the level of risk being raised. This is reflected when performance-based benefits rise and when they rise sharply over time. The committee notes that they do so. We believe that the Pensions Group and the Government can also have an eye on this in the future. One reason why we in the Moderates think it is important to point out here that we support the committee's proposal in the report is that if we are to have confidence and confidence in the pension system in the long term, it is based on the fact that we also deliver pension payments. Here, the AP funds, and especially those we are discussing today, have an absolutely crucial role to play by serving as a balance between years of deficit and years of surplus in the pension system. Otherwise, we risk ending up in the situation that some other countries have ended up in when they have a more politicised system. Something like that is sometimes sought here too. Active decisions must then be taken in parliament or by governments to cut back and make temporary changes to the pension system with very large backlogs for the country's pensioners. That's not how it's supposed to be in Sweden. It is therefore extremely important that pension issues and AP funds are dealt with in the responsible way that is now being done. There can then be a large number of views on the pension system and at levels, contributions and payments. Many pensioners in Sweden have a much too tough financial situation. However, it is not the subject of discussion as to the performance of the AP Funds. There are two separate discussions, and they need to be if we are to maintain trust and trust in the system. Madam President, I would like After all, it is important that AP funds' activities are characterised by returns and not activism. That is why I would also like to stress that the report rejects both the Left Party's reservations and the other parties' motions. There is an important lesson for those of you who are here listening to politics: As soon as there is money and an opportunity to use it, there are also always politicians who want to do so. They believe they know that this money can be spent better than any other person has previously discovered. The ideas contained in this report, Madam President, contain such features. It is about politicians who think that a particular infrastructure project or some other way of using the money is better than anyone else has thought. They say, "Let's do this! In Swedish history there are also times when we have sometimes dealt with the pension system and the future payments of pensioners in this way. It hasn't ended well. Any such attempt must be vigorously rejected. Instead, we must ensure that AP funds' activities are characterised by demands on returns and not on activism. We cannot use pensioners' money for what we think is important right now. Instead, we should use the state budget and tax revenue available, not the money we keep for future pension payments. It is very important that, from time to time, this principle also has a voice in the debate. It is always attractive to spend money, Madam President. But the AP funds' money is in order for us to have a secure and stable pension system.
