i-46d6de902f6513ff-4	Madam President, I would like Anders Hansson has asked me if I and the government intend to procure new tracks via ferry traffic as the night trains start rolling to increase connections between Sweden and the continent. Let me begin by stating that the government wants it to be easy to travel climate smart. It shall be possible to travel collectively with little climate impact. It is therefore gratifying that public interest in climate-smart travel is increasing. More and more people want to take the train, both in everyday life and on vacation. Then we politicians must also contribute. It is part of the government's policy in the transformation of the entire transport system to cope with the climate, build a strong society and achieve the goal of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country. In the 2019 spring change budget, the Government has proposed that a new framework allocation for national rail transport should be included in the State budget and that SEK 50 million should be allocated for the current financial year. The Spring Change Budget is part of the budgetary cooperation between the government parties, the Center Party and the Liberals. The Swedish Transport Agency will now be tasked with investigating the conditions and returning with suggestions on which cities the new night trains should run. The Finnish Transport Agency's work may indicate whether it may impose requirements on which connections need to exist between Sweden and the continent.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the answer to this on Walpurgis Night! The reason why I asked my question to the Government was that the Government, as the Government also reported, allocated 50 million in the spring budget to international rail transport to the rest of Europe. The goal is night trains to several European cities," said Minister Eneroth in a statement. Well, that's what I thought. That is a good ambition. At the same time, however, a great many questions arose as to how the government had imagined that this could actually be done. A little easy to see, there are two roads. Either you travel through Sweden across the Öresund Bridge to Denmark and then across the Great Belt Bridge in Denmark and further down to the continent, or you can take a train to a ferry station and board a ferry that can also take trains. Let me start with the latter. There is today a port, Madam President, which has ferries that can take trains. It's the port of Trelleborg and the shipping company Stena. Stena has three ships that can take rail-bound traffic. However, the clock is ringing for these ferries, as it is very much more favorable on them to take lorries instead of trains. Earlier, 15 to 20 years ago, 200 000 units were transported annually by rail out of the port of Trelleborg or Ystad, which was at the time. Stockholm and Gothenburg early completed their rail transport opportunities. Now only about 20 000 units are transported annually on the railway ferries, which is actually a big loss deal for the shipping companies. For this reason, my question will be whether the Government, in its ambition to have night trains to the continent ferry, intends in some way to make it more advantageous for shipping companies to have rail ferries? Madam President, I would like A lot of questions also arise as regards the land route across Denmark to the continent. Train paths are needed. Today train paths are scarce, as the Government is aware. Getting new ones into plans is in practice too late. It is terribly sad to be so negative, but unfortunately the facts in the case are such. In Denmark and Germany it is even more difficult. The next question will therefore be: Who will make the investment in new train sets, as these are completely missing in Sweden? Of course there are train sets with sleeping and sleeping cars, but these are needed in Sweden because we have extensive train traffic even here in our elongated country. Moreover, they are reportedly too wide for traffic on the continent.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-15	Even a little more political complications are added. The Great Belt Bridge in Denmark has some support from the Danish city, which may be a matter to bite in for the Government in its negotiations with the Nordic colleagues. There are quite a few questions in this. That is why I would like to put these questions to the Government. I don't really think there is anything wrong with the ambition, but unfortunately I see a lot of obstacles along the way and think there may be a risk that this will be expensive for Sweden. And if I can be mean, these 50 million might be a bit of placard politics.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-17	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Hansson! I really appreciate the commitment. It's a bit of a shame with the concept of placard politics, because Anders Hansson knows, just like all of us who have worked politically for a long time, that at some point you have to start. At some point you have to start by also daring to set aside resources if you want reality to change. We are sending a clear message with these 50 million. They will not be enough for very much trains out to the whole continent. I know everyone understands that. However, it is a clear signal from the government that work is now being started to develop night rail traffic. Surely there are challenges. There's no doubt about it. There are technical challenges with different specifications between Sweden and Europe. There are challenges in terms of access to train paths. There are also challenges with regard to the conditions for commercial night rail traffic. But something interesting is happening here. In the same way as the government in the last parliamentary term chose to procure train traffic up to Åre and thus ensure that there were night train opportunities for Åre, we have seen how interest has exploded. A lot of people choose to use the night train to get up to this visitor industry's Mecca as Åre is. I believe that politics can open up new ways for what will then become commercially viable. One can do so not least by using procurement as an instrument. In the long run, I do not think that anyone wants to take as a starting point that all night rail traffic throughout Europe should be strictly state-subsidised, when one has to find a model where there is also a strong market interest and new roads. I can also appreciate Anders Hansson raising the issue of goods, lorries and rail in this context. It's one of my heart issues. During the last parliamentary term, we developed a good strategy, and now we are working very hard to change the Swedish freight system so that it is used more efficiently than before by coordinating loading and using the resources we have in an efficient way, as well as increasing the conditions for placing more goods on rail and not least on shipping. Here we have a positive development. When I took office as Minister of Infrastructure, I think it was all-time-low when it came to flagging the Swedish merchant fleet. Since then it has increased. Now we've made the 100th flag. It is faith in the future and optimism in Swedish shipping, not least thanks to the policy we are pursuing, but it is also about everyone, including transport buyers, seeing the importance of us using shipping to a greater extent to get climate-smart transport. Then, of course, all the questions about the financial means come up on the table. Here are a number of assignments, for example on transhipment money, which are now reported to the Freight Transport Council. How do we find models that make it more profitable to also use shipping to a greater extent? The transport buyers are giving me the clear signal that they are becoming more and more interested. As long as you ensure a low climate footprint, ensure delivery and have competitive prices, the mode of transport is less interesting, which speaks to the advantage of shipping. That's why shipping was especially happy when we were able to deliver a strong investment in research into shipping in the future. I will go to Trelleborg on Friday and visit the harbour there and talk to the porters. After all, they have a key position in the future with connections all the way to the world, not least in the case of rail transport at sea. I am therefore well aware of the challenges, and that is one of the reasons why I am also going to Trelleborg and talking to the port representatives.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-27	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, and welcome down to Skåne on Friday! The harbour of Trelleborg is also in my constituency, so the Government should feel extra welcome! I think it's great that we're talking shipping. After all, we are going to have an interpellation debate about a little while when we will be talking even more about shipping and perhaps get our attention in this regard. I thought I'd go back a little bit to rail traffic. The Government was on the night train traffic up to Åre. Then we should be honest and say that it is also subsidised by the Swedish state with more than 100 million. So it's not on its own. We are therefore subsidising this night rail traffic and the Swedish railway which, although I know that many people are waiting for their trains in the days, must nevertheless be said to be well-functioning. In Germany, for example, it is considerably more expensive to drive trains than it is in Sweden. In Denmark, too, it is expensive, and then the question will of course be: are we prepared to subsidise there too? If we do so now, can there really be any profitability in this without state subsidies? When we are in the ferry situation, I think that this issue is also important from a different perspective, which I think the Government will see when he is down in the port of Trelleborg. From a total defence perspective, it is important that we have some ports that can cope with rail traffic. Today we have only two entrances to Sweden: over the Öresund Bridge and over the harbour of Trelleborg. Should something happen on the Öresund Bridge, for example, like what happened on the Great Belt Bridge last summer, only Trelleborg harbour can receive rail traffic. I hope that this is taken into account in the Defence Committee, otherwise I humbly ask Minister Eneroth to pass it on to his colleagues. It's an important part. It is precisely today that shipping companies cannot actually keep track in ports on a commercial basis, because they are making a financial loss. We have to thank Stena Line very much for being able to endure in this, and here I think that the state should increase its commitment from a total defence perspective – we have that possibility – but also seen from the night rail perspective, which we are discussing now. I still have to go into the flag because I am also a maritime spokesperson for the Moderates. I, too, am delighted with it. We have gone from 85 ships to 100, and it is gratifying that it is moving in the right direction. However, we must not miss that we went from 200 down to 85. Now we're on our way up, which I'm glad. As I said, we will discuss the conditions for Swedish shipping a little more in a forthcoming interpellation debate. Finally, I would just like to mention the possibility of rail at all. The intermodal transport of goods by rail is important. This has nothing to do with night trains, where we intend to transport people. However, I am pleased that the Government shares the view that it is important to transfer goods to rail and maritime transport. It is a good path in the future. However, the questions remain about how we can manage night trains in terms of development when there are so different rules and different costs.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-35	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Hansson! It is absolutely essential that we strengthen the capacity of the rail network after years of underinvestment. This is also why we are making the largest railway investment in modern times and investing a total of SEK 700 billion in national plans. If we are not just going to stay in Skåne and Anders Hansson's constituency then we can go to my dear constituency and look at Älmhult and Olofström down towards Karlshamn. It is a fantastically important port where the South East Link is now included in the national plan. It will relieve the South Main Line and open up better conditions for freight transport down to Karlshamn harbour. In this way, the government is working to systematically increase the capacity of the Swedish rail system and to systematically also increase the conditions for transferring more goods to shipping. An important part of this is, of course, the key position of ports. That was one of the reasons why, as the first Minister of Infrastructure, I actually brought the country's ports together for a large port meeting. They are municipally owned in the majority and have not always been a natural part of the Swedish transport system, at least not in national coordination. For me, it's been strange. The ports are a key player in the development we are facing now. I can appreciate that Anders Hansson also lifts redundancy from a total defence perspective. After years of underinvestment and after a global reconnaissance, I think everyone realises that there is reason to strengthen the capacity of our ports from that perspective too. Of course, this depends on what resources we have at our disposal. We choose to prioritise this after years of underinvestment, and we will now have clear assignments and investments in Swedish railway systems to strengthen capacity. This will, of course, also open up for improved night rail traffic opportunities. The bet of 50 million is an important signal. Of course, parts of it can be dealt with in the framework of procurement, much as we talked about Åre. Other parts are about opening up roads to the market, because there is now strong customer and consumer pressure, or citizen pressure, to open up more night rail traffic. I hope and believe that there will also be increased profitability among the actors that exist, and this is not just about Swedish companies. Everyone has surely been able to follow in the media that ÖBB, the Austrian railway company, has opened up to operate traffic even to Sweden. I believe that the path we need to take is greater coordination within Europe. It is in the debate on the railway packages that we have decided on and which we are discussing within the European Union. If the Moderates and Anders Hansson are prepared to give traction assistance to this and invest in night rail traffic, and for that matter make further investments on rail, I very much welcome that. I think it is important that we in Sweden see together across all party boundaries the commitment behind going climate-smart. Then night rail traffic will be an alternative that more people want to choose. We need to improve choices. We must find new ways of getting out, not least in Berlin and Hamburg. To initiate such a process, 50 million is a good start, and the Finnish Transport Agency will now continue to work on this.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-46	Madam President, I would like It's important to start somewhere. A journey always begins with a small step. Maybe that's how we'll see it. It's a small uphill in the beginning. But it is true that the Moderates are definitely behind the idea of being able to travel by train. What we may be more concerned about are larger projects that take far too much money from what we would like to spend on the existing railways. We are not going into the high-speed discussion. But it is somehow important that the railway infrastructure we have works. In my world, and I am speaking as a Member of Parliament Anders Hansson, it is very important that we can rely on the infrastructure we have. If I make an active choice to travel by train to and from my work, it cannot be that every two or three times I have to stand and wait for a cancelled train. Then both me and my employer get tired. In the end, it will be the climate that has to iron on my foot, because I will sit in my car instead. It is important that we give the right priority. We will certainly have a great deal of discussion here in the future about what is right. We may think differently in some things, but we will also agree in some. I think we are all aware that we want to do what is good for the environment and for the citizens to get to and from their jobs and to the rest of Europe. Whether the night train stops at a good dream, we'll see. That's a lot of obstacles. In any case, I am cautiously positive despite all these obstacles I can see along the way. Maybe it's because I'm acting and positive by nature.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-50	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders Hansson! It's a good dream. I hope and believe that many will sleep well on the night trains. I also believe that there is a strong commitment and interest on the part of many to travel more trains. But it should be reliable, and there should be a capacity on the tracks. Then we are on the question of new main tracks, which Anders Hansson touched on. If the night trains are to arrive, or more importantly, the commuter trains and freight trains are to arrive, we must increase the capacity of the Swedish rail system. Then we have to find a model where we separate trains that go at high speed from those that go at lower speeds. One of the reasons why we have problems with the rail system today – and not least in Skåne, we have had such challenges – is because Skånetrafiken, Öresundstraggen or Pågatraggen will interact with X2000's long-distance train or, for that matter, the freight transporters. With one of Europe's liberalized rail systems, with 49 operators to fight in a worn-down railway system, we have concerns. If the commuter trains arrive on time and the freight trains are able to arrive, we need new capacity. That is why we need to build new main roads. That is why we must have the courage to make the decisions that were made perhaps a hundred or fifty years ago in Sweden to build properly with new capacity. We now see that they do it for Lund – Åkerp and eventually Lund – Hässleholm. I think that a lot of people are prepared to live with the fact that it is a bit messy during the construction period and that there will be a reconstruction going on. But when we then get four tracks and know that the capacity is increasing significantly, we will have the development that we have already seen clearly in Skåne for a long time. It is a sharp increase in train travel that has given a labour market enlargement that has been very important for all of Skåne's growth and development power, while at the same time it has been done in a climate-smart way. I'm an optimist, too. It's nice that both small-timers and actors can be.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-57	Madam President, I would like Åsa Coenraads has asked me a question about the financial compensation to non-state airports in Norrland as a result of the air tax imposed. A tax on air travel was introduced on 1 April 2018 to help Sweden become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. According to the Government's 2018 budget proposal, SEK 84.8 million was allocated in 2018 to ensure that the aviation tax does not increase operating deficits at non-governmental airports in Norrland. The transitional government's budget bill proposed SEK 84.8 million for 2019 for the same purpose. However, Parliament's decision on the state budget for 2019 under a reservation from the Moderates and Christian Democrats means that the funds to compensate for increased operating deficits at airports in Norrland were halved for 2019. No funds have yet been paid out to airports. In the spring 2019 amending budget, the Government proposes that an additional SEK 57 million be allocated for compensation to non-governmental airports in Norrland. The aid amounts to a total of SEK 99 million for 2019. If evidence shows that the additional SEK 61 per ticket increases the operating deficit of an airport, it will receive compensation. Work is under way on how to manage the aid.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-60	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking the Minister very much for the answer to my question about when the financial compensation comes to non-state airports in Norrland as a result of the air tax imposed by the Social Democrats. However, I note that the Minister avoids answering the question of when the promised aid will come and instead refers to work on how to manage the payment. I also note that the answer I receive is more or less word for word that when my fellow Members have asked questions about this in the past. Does the Minister mean most seriously that the government does not know how state aid is to be paid, even though he and the government have not only gone to elections on this, but also decided on this in a government position? That is worrying, Madam President. One might almost think that the government realised that it is a bad idea to first introduce a tax with one hand and then pay back money with the other. It's a handling that's not just bad. It also costs taxpayers a lot of extra money. Madam President, I would like In his reply, the Minister suggests that the unpaid money would be the fault of Mr Oderatians after the autumn budget. Let me just correct that statement a little. It is true that we did not include the money as compensation for the airline tax, but it was because we completely removed the tax. What the government is doing now is promising money that will never come but still raise costs. This has consequences for both passengers and airports. The aim of the aviation tax would be to reduce climate emissions. That's a good idea. We all care about the climate. In practice, however, this plays a very small role when emissions move on to other modes of transport or to other countries. Basically, the problem is not flying in itself, but the fuel in the aircraft. The airline tax is now hitting both old and new aircraft regardless of the type of fuel, and the green tax exchange is missing. The consequence of this is that airports in northern Sweden are on their knees economically, and the risk of closure is high. Based on the fact that the whole of Sweden will live, it would be devastating for Swedish growth and competitiveness. The government is now focusing on southern Sweden and Stockholm to slowly kill Norrland. It is an anti-rural policy and nothing else. The January agreement mentions an aviation fuel tax agreed between the government and the support parties The Centre Party and the Liberals. One might now wonder whether this tax will be put on top of the air tax and what the consequences will be for northern Sweden in particular. My question to the Minister remains. When does the Minister think the work on compensation for the airline tax will be completed? Will any aviation fuel tax be added to the norrland airline tax?
i-46d6de902f6513ff-68	Madam President, I would like Åsa Coenraads said: It is true that we did not have the money. And so it was. You didn't have money in the budget. You spent money on the regional airports in Norrland. But the airline tax was there; it was not abolished. So you cut back on aid to regional airports. And we are back in for it, because we think that if it turns out that 61 kroner per domestic ticket has an effect that reduces flying, the airports will be compensated. We've been clear about that. Then remember that there are reasons why some airports in northern Sweden have a challenge. One of the reasons is the bankruptcy of Nextchet. It was a private airline that operated under a public service contract and was unable to maintain its capacity. The company went bankrupt and caused a situation where five airports were completely unaircrafted. Two days after Nexchet's bankruptcy, I stood with the Director-General of the Finnish Transport Administration and acted to ensure that we were once again in the air. We were then able to start a contract so that at least three of the airports could get air connections relatively quickly. This is crucial for these municipalities, not least in Västerbotten's hinterland. For two of the airports, it took longer to find compensation because the EU regulatory framework and market rules say that it is more important that airlines have the right to bid in the procurement process than that the state can guarantee the citizens good connections to keep the country together. It is a system that I do not think is acceptable, but we were then forced to relate to it. Meanwhile, we had to compensate Gällivare and Arvidsjaur with other types of transport so that entrepreneurs or citizens would not suffer too much from the bankruptcy that Nexchet did. Then we managed to enforce the procurement, and we now have aviation operators who are also present at these airports. This, of course, has cost the state money, and it has also cost airports money. That's what happens when companies go bankrupt. But again: should it turn out that the introduction of air tax has had effects, we will compensate for it. I note that the Moderates are not prepared to accept a flight tax. I also note that the Moderates in the budget that drew resources to regional airports also made a brutal saving on everything about climate policy. It was a saving of one, than the other, to reduce Sweden's ambitions when it comes to being able to change the climate. This concerns me. Sweden has otherwise been seen internationally as a country that stands up for the Paris Agreement, which has high ambitions in terms of switching to renewable energy and which has high ambitions in terms of changing the transport sector, where the great contingent is. I note that, on a point-by-point basis, the Moderates are now moving in a direction where they are beginning to distance themselves from the Energy Agreement. They do not really see the need to switch to transport systems, and they do not see that aviation should also assume its responsibilities. I am therefore fundamentally concerned about the lack of climate commitment of the Moderates. We are keen that Sweden should stick together. We are making the biggest investment ever on Norrland in a national plan for infrastructure. We will continue to maintain good infrastructure capacity throughout the country. Among other things, that was why it was so important for me to act so that after Nextchet's bankruptcy you could get flying back into the air again. Back to the question: Now the airline tax has been in force for barely a year. It is only now that we can see what effects, if any, a flight tax has had on the airports that we are now talking about. If it can then be stated that the introduction of a tax of SEK 61 per ticket has had an effect, we will of course compensate airports for this. That is why – unlike in the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats – we have also added resources for this.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-80	Madam President, I would like Despite the fact that a whole year has passed since the introduction of the air tax, there is still no plan for how the money is to be paid to the airports affected. Not a single crown has been paid out yet. And when I listen to the Minister's answer, I get a little worried, because there doesn't even seem to be a plan to investigate how the money is to be paid out. The Minister speaks warmly for the climate. I think that's a good thing, because it's something that we're both passionate about. This is something that we are all passionate about in the Swedish Parliament. But for us to be able to do something about the climate, the effects of politics must also be effective. We cannot push the climate problems away from us to anyone else, but we must reduce emissions to the climate. That is why we have spoken warmly in favour of involving a greater proportion of biofuels in aviation fuel. It is more important to have a tax on things that are bad for the environment than on things that are good for the environment. That is precisely why the government's air tax is so wrong. It turns on all types of fuels, including those that would be better for the environment and climate. Taking responsibility is doing good things right. But it is also about taking responsibility for our tax money. It is the citizens' money we use, and then we have to do the right things and not make placard politics out of it. I get the feeling that one has made a little too quick a decision from the government about the airline tax and that one now clings to and tries to argue for something that actually has no real effect. Aviation tax has been criticised, but the effects have still not been investigated. Now it has been a whole year without a single crown being paid out. I therefore ask again: how will airports benefit from the money? And when can airports expect to be able to start taking advantage of this money?
i-46d6de902f6513ff-86	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Coenraads, for the clarification regarding the air tax! Let me still ask you a question, just in case. I have always interpreted it as meaning that the Moderates are, by definition, against airline tax at all and regardless of design. But now it sounded at Åsa Coenraads like the Moderates can imagine a flight tax, if it is designed in a different way. If so, it would be a welcome message from the Moderates that you still think that aviation should also be able to bear its costs, just as other modes of transport do and have been doing for a long time. That's what this is about. It is a matter of us thinking that it is reasonable that the modes of transport contribute their share in order for us to be able to cope with the changeover, and here the flights have a long journey to make. We now see how aviation actors themselves, together with Fossil free Sweden and Svante Axelsson's processes, develop ambitious programmes for conversion, and I welcome that. I also welcome the fact that we are pursuing the efforts we are now making in Sweden on electric aviation, which means that perhaps in the future and in the long term we can get an even more sustainable flight. But there's still a time before we get there. As far as a larger proportion of biofuels in aviation is concerned, it is we who take responsibility for the development by setting up the Biojet investigation, Maria Wetterstrand's report. The study shows how to ensure that aviation can make more use of biofuels. Sweden is well placed to meet the challenge here, but it is also required to show a state commitment in terms of willingness and resources allocated. The absence of this is monumental in the moderate motions and party proposals. The climate savings show something quite different when you get the chance to control Sweden's politics and economy. That's why it's probably a little up to the Moderates if they really want to get through the transition and give signals to all modes of transport. I shall return to the basic question. It is now a little over a year since the air tax was introduced. During this time we have had a choice. We have received a budget which took away the resources for airline tax compensation and where the opposition parties, with the support of the Parliament, also announced that they wanted to remove the airline tax. Now we managed to get a new government in place with a January agreement. In the January agreement, we were clear that aviation should be able to bear its costs, but that it should also take responsibility for its contribution to the environment through the reintroduction of the air tax. This means that we have also announced resources for compensation. They are now deposed. We will have the opportunity to compensate if it turns out that 61 SEK per domestic ticket has an effect that means that there is a reduction in flying at the regional airports in Norrland.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-94	Madam President, I would like You have to take responsibility for your policy. When it turns out that the policies that have been put in place do not work and do not have the effects that you have wanted, you must also take responsibility for doing the right thing and doing the right thing. Aviation tax is an example of this, and that is what we are talking about here and now. It has not given the effect it wanted to achieve when it pushed over the poor climate awareness of other modes of transport and other countries. It hits hard on passengers, towards the hinterland of Norrland and against Swedish competitiveness in general. I think it's pretty irresponsible. The government has introduced a flight tax. It has also been said that compensation should be given to airports, but there is no plan for that part in terms of how it should be implemented. It has an impact on people in our very elongated country. I think it's irresponsible. The Minister says that we must take responsibility for the transport sector's climate emissions. I agree. We still have a lot to do there. I hope that we will have more debates and dialogues on how to do this. But in order to be able to introduce electric flights, it is also important to look at where the electricity comes from. There is reason to discuss the energy agreement, which the government mentions. It is good that the Moderates have raised this issue, because it is an issue that we need to discuss further if we are to reduce Sweden's climate emissions – and that is what the aviation tax was aimed at.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-98	Madam President, I would like As this is the last speech of the debate, I cannot ask any questions, but I am being a little perplexed. It was unclear whether Åsa Coenraads and the Moderates felt that the airline tax had any effect or not. That's where you make up your mind. But let us return to that question in some other context. As far as competitiveness is concerned, there is no doubt that it is strong. It's stronger now than when we had a moderate government. Now we have the highest level of employment ever. We have strong export development and a strong economy, thanks to the courage to invest and also the courage to make climate investments. That is one of the reasons why we are growing in the export market. Many countries around the world see that Sweden can cope with a transition. The reason why people dare to make investments in Sweden is, among other things, that we have made courageous decisions in broad agreement. The Energy Agreement is one such example. The world around us is envious that we have had such broad participation in Sweden about the transformation of the energy system and the focus on renewables. It is therefore not at all a good thing that the Moderates choose to create an unclear situation about the energy agreement, because that is what has been done with the statements that have been made. It risks jeopardising confidence in long-term agreements that create good rules for the investments to be made in Sweden. I find it unfortunate that the discussion that has now begun on the part of the Moderates has begun. In Sweden we have benefited from a broad agreement on the energy transition. In Sweden, companies have been able to know which rules apply. Citizens and households have been able to see predictability. Furthermore, we have been able to show that we will be able to achieve the renewable energy targets and make clear investments, not least in wind power or, for that matter, solar power. For the Moderates it is still up to evidence when it comes to coping with the climate issue and climate credibility; that is true. And I'm sure we'll talk more about airports in the future.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-104	Madam President, I would like Anders Hansson has asked me what incentives exist today to encourage shipping to switch to a more environmentally friendly fleet and whether I intend to review how the fairway and pilotage charges system can be changed to encourage such a shift. The government has a clear objective of moving goods from road transport to rail and maritime transport. Maritime transport plays an important role in the transport system as it contributes to reducing the climate impact of the transport sector and enables the Swedish export industry to have access to high-capacity freight transport throughout the year. The Swedish Maritime Administration is a business establishment, and its operations are mainly financed by fairway and pilotage fees. The Swedish Maritime Administration's charging system helps to ensure financial stability in the economy of the work. It is the Swedish Maritime Administration that largely determines the amount of fees and the design of the fee system. The Government considers it important that fairway charges contribute to environmental management and to conversion. There is also an environmental differentiation in the design of the fairway fee, which both encourages and contributes to environmental management and conversion. I will follow the issue and continue to work to strengthen the concreteness and environmental incentives of shipping.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-109	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for his answer to an important question. Now we finally have to discuss shipping! I share Minister Eneroth's ambition to try to move goods from road transport to rail and shipping. It is a wise measure that should reduce the pressure on our roads around the country. Not least in my part of Sweden, Skåne, where a large part of the goods arrive in Sweden, we already see European roads where traffic is almost stationary due to the high load of road transport. If we can increase short sea traffic and barge traffic so that it relieves these roads, I am very much in favour of that. I do not believe that the Government will find any political disagreement about unburdening roads with the Moderates. However, I am more concerned about the Government's response to shipping and fairway charges. Swedish shipping is particularly important for Sweden. Almost 90 per cent of all goods to and from Sweden are transported by sea. It could be said that Swedish shipping is essential for Swedish supply. Clear, clear and competitive or at least equivalent rules are therefore necessary. Common rules on shipping exist through the IMO, the International Maritime Organization. However, Sweden stands out in one area in particular: it is today only Finland and Sweden in our neighbourhood that have fairway fees. Finland also halved its fairway fees a few years ago. However, Sweden has not reduced its fairway fees. On the contrary, we have done the opposite: they have increased. For Swedish shipping, this is a competitive disadvantage in the international market in which they work. In its reply, the Government only refers to the fact that the Swedish Maritime Administration determines the amount of fairway fees and also the design of the fee system. As one of Sweden's three so-called businesses, the Swedish Maritime Administration will finance its own operations, which have unfortunately been in deficit for some time. The almost only possibility of re-dilution with new money at the checkout is to increase the fairway and pilot fees. This has also been done, with information, in particular in the last two years. Fairway fees have been increased by over SEK 220 million annually, both in 2017 and 2018. And the signals from the Swedish Maritime Administration are unfortunately clear: More increases are to be expected in the future. With these increases, the competitive situation of Swedish shipping is made more difficult, in direct contrast to the ambition expressed by the Government in this House. It will be more advantageous to transport goods by ordinary road instead of by sea. It is good that the Government, like me, is in favour of environmentally differentiated fairway fees with the aim of rewarding those shipping companies that work actively with conversion to more climate-smart ships with increased climate awareness and better environmental work. Today, there is indeed a possibility of a smaller environmental discount for ships that make this conversion. However, this positive ambition is met if fairway charges in general increase significantly. The core of the pulp is therefore the fact that the Swedish Maritime Administration has to increase the fairway fees so much all the time in order to finance its own operations. This puts both Swedish shipping and the ambition of environmentally differentiated fairway charges at a disadvantage. My question to Minister Eneroth is therefore whether he sees any concern in this and is prepared to take any action in the near future.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-118	Madam President, I would like I can see that, unlike when we had a moderate government, we have now had a rather positive development in shipping. This is where the flag goes. This is the moment when investments are taking place. Last week we saw how a new shipping company in Sweden is making major investments in the future, not least to cope with the climate change. It is now that we are multiplying investments in national plans in the shipping sector, not to mention the investments in Trollhättan or in Södertälje Canal to increase the conditions for domestic shipping. It is now that we have a national coordinator who is holding together all the efforts to be made in the Maritime Transport Agency to support the development of inland navigation and coastal shipping. It is now that we are also about to announce a doubling of research and development into shipping. So there is no doubt that it is under a Social Democratic-led government that big investments are made for shipping. It also creates hope and confidence in the future in an industry that thus dares to invest and also dares flag into the Swedish merchant fleet where the tonnage tax change has meant that we now have the 100th flagged-in ship in Sweden. I believe that all these efforts are based on taking responsibility for ensuring that both the Swedish Maritime Administration and the actors can have a good and stable economy. In the past, ambulance calls were made with one-off grants to cope with the rickety economy of the Swedish Maritime Administration. It's not sustainable. Basically, we must ensure that there is a balance between the fees charged and the efforts made. That is why the fairway charges have now been increased. What I find interesting, and which I would like to hear honestly from Anders Hansson and the Moderates, is what the overall fee charge looks like. It is clear that fairway charges are part of the charges that shipping has to bear, but when transport buyers look at the competition between different modes of transport, they also have other costs to consider. Port charges in the ports of Trelleborg and Ystad or in other ports are also something that becomes part of the charges being imposed. They do not regulate us in the Riksdag, but they are regulated municipally. That is why I think it is important when we look at the conditions for competition and the economic conditions for strengthening maritime transport in the future that we also carry out a broader review and not only look at what are state fairway or pilotage charges, but also look at the overall charge and the costs that transport buyers will have to bear in that case. Within the framework of the freight transport strategy, we are looking closely at this, and here, among other things, is the task of traffic analysis on instruments to promote intermodal freight transport – the so-called transhipment money. In fact, a proposal was delivered there as late as 31 March. This proposal could be characterised as a broader eco-bonus, i.e. a way of actually stimulating transhipment. This applies to a number of different operators, not only to shipping, but also to those who are prepared to move towards a change. I think that's how you need to keep working. This is how we work in the Swedish Freight Transport Council where actors for several different modes of transport are now trying to find new ways to strengthen Swedish shipping. It's actually going in the right direction. New transport lines are now being developed, and this is a development that I regard as incredibly positive.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-125	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I think it is interesting to see the total expenditure, and I think it is important. But that is precisely my point: The total expenditure charge at the moment has a negative effect on Swedish shipping because we are increasing the fairway and pilotage fees for Swedish shipping all the time. In 2017, we increased fairway fees by 8 per cent, and pilotage fees were increased by 5 per cent in the same year. In 2018, the fairway fees were increased by 9 per cent and pilotage fees by 5 per cent. I have heard that it is now planned to increase fairway charges by 2% from 2019 and pilotage fees by 5%. This is an increase in costs which will be very difficult in the total amount of expenditure if one then says: Here you get 50 million. But it does not matter whether our overall expenditure ceiling is now 220 million a year. Then it becomes almost like a small patch on a very large wound. I'm glad we're looking at this, because I think it's right, but I think we have very different approaches to this. When it comes to the Maritime Administration's crisis – it is in fact in that – it must have a budget in balance. That is quite right because it is a business and the state as owner has a requirement on them. But they must now conjure their knees in order to get their finances in order. And what do you do? There is an increase in fairway fees and pilotage fees. This is something that affects Swedish shipping. Then we give them a little finger in another direction. It is a good thing that we are giving them something, but on the whole, in terms of total expenditure, I am afraid that it will disappear and that this benefit, for example, is not seen as an environmental discount. I have even received information that the environmental discount in itself is only up to 7% versus fairway charges. Let's see this weird outlet. When charges increase, we give a little money at a different end, and so we hope that you are happy about it and focus on the positive. I am grateful for that, but we have the huge expenditure that we need to look at. J ust now it is fairway fees and pilotage fees that it is all about. There is also a need to carry out an impact assessment with regard to the environmentally differentiated charges, for there are some shipping companies who feel that the new system has failed. It's kind of weird. I visited a fully battery-powered ferry between Helsingborg and Helsingör operated by the shipping company For Sea, or They claim to be disadvantaged by this new charging system. They go completely on electricity and claim to have received higher charges rather than lower. I think this is a clear warning signal. I hope I'm wrong, because if that's the case, we're in a lot of trouble. Swedish shipping is doing well, says the Government. Yes, absolutely! I think it is positive that we have increased the number of flags from 85 to 100. It is good and in the right direction. We've gone down from 200 to 85, but now we're going up. The Tonnage tax was a major part of this. It was the alliance government that initiated it, and the government successfully pushed it through in 2016. During our time we started with the tonnage tax, and the government brought it into port. This ensures good Swedish shipping.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-131	Madam President, I would like It is true that the tonnage tax was introduced by a Social Democratic-led government. This tax has been important in increasing the flag, along with all the other efforts being made. I appreciate Anders Hansson's commitment and knowledge in the maritime field. Anders Hansson should, however, also know that a little finger of SEK 50 million is not the case, but we summarise the efforts – for example the national plan – we see a doubling of investments that increases the conditions for Swedish shipping. When it comes to fairway depth in Luleå, fairway depth in the port of Gothenburg and investments in Södertälje Canal or in Trollhättan it is not small sums it is about. These are the biggest investments ever made, and they are being made because we choose to give priority to shipping. It takes along with research searches or other efforts– not to mention the low-hanging fruits that it actually means getting a national coordinator for inland and coastal shipping– make it happen now. I myself have been in opposition, and I thought it was terrible. Then they promised everything, and they found it difficult and looked for troubles and challenges. It was announced that there should be lower fees and increased support. I respect that. It's frustrating to be in opposition. But even the Moderates in opposition must have a balanced budget. Even the Moderates must then be able to tell us where the money is to be taken before promising significantly increased aid to shipping or, for that matter, lower charges. What I am saying is that there should always be a balance, but we need to look at the overall levy. I think it will be crucial for us who want to strengthen shipping – and I know that Anders Hansson also wants to do so. Those of us who want it must also think about what the transport buyers will see in the future. They won't be looking at the transports. They do not look at whether it is truck, rail or shipping, but they will want to know the costs, delivery capacity, reliability and climate footprint. The last will be even clearer in the future, from the customer and consumer level to the fact that companies and large transport buyers will have to disclose this publicly. This is increasingly happening. It speaks for shipping, not least because it is now fast-footed, resets and makes investments. We create the conditions for investment by providing long-term information about infrastructure investments but also about the rules of the game. Views from the Swedish Maritime Administration can always be discussed. However, the Swedish Maritime Administration is still a key player in future development. There are employees who are doing an amazing job of strengthening Swedish shipping. There, sea traffic management was developed, which now increases the competitiveness and ability of Swedish shipping. There is a strong commitment to creating good and decent conditions. But then the work must also have a good economy. It is a business, and it has to charge fees to finance its activities. I believe that we benefit at national level by being clear that if shipping is to be strengthened, we need to look at the overall levy. We need to have a dialogue with municipal representatives on port charges. We need to have a dialogue with other modes of transport on what competition looks like. That was the discussion we announced in the freight transport strategy. And this is the discussion that is now taking place in real terms between transport buyers, traffic law representatives, authorities and trade associations in the National Freight Transport Council. This is how we reset and sharpen Swedish good capacity. As a result, shipping will continue to have a bright future.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-139	Madam President, I would like I do not know if it has anything to do with the opposition role, but I imagine that Minister Eneroth and I care just as much about the Swedish Maritime Administration. We see the benefits and the fine work of those who work there. What I am concerned about is that we are not giving the Swedish Maritime Administration the conditions to do so, given that they are constantly having to increase the fairway and pilotage fees. It will in turn be an evil spiral for Swedish shipping. If it becomes more expensive with Swedish shipping, it will simply lead to less calls, because you think that the fairway charges are constantly rising. And what are the shipping companies looking at, exactly as Minister Eneroth said? Yeah, they're looking at expenses. There are not huge margins in Swedish shipping. Therefore, an increase in fairway charges becomes a vicious circle. In this debate I have not said anything at all that we in the Moderates would think that we should do this or that. I have said that the role of the Swedish Maritime Administration is unsustainable given that it is constantly necessary to increase the fairway charges. I would like us to be able to jointly review the Swedish Maritime Administration's financing model and organisational model. In order for the Swedish Maritime Administration to continue with the fine work they are doing, I think you have to get money. Then it is fairway and pilot fees you raise. In the overall charge charge, it is a disadvantage for Swedish shipping.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-143	Madam President, I would like Let me get this straight. Anders Hansson says that the Swedish Maritime Administration is constantly required to increase the fairway fees. That's not true. Twice the fairway and pilotage fees have been increased. The previous government had to make an extra effort. I think it was an extra maritime billion that had to be added to cover deficits. This was done without giving the basic structural conditions to take seriously the Swedish Maritime Administration's finances. I believe that what lies ahead is to create stable conditions for Swedish shipping. We are doing this both by being clear about the infrastructure investments to be made and by being clear in the political signals we are sending out, not least through the freight transport strategy. But this also applies to climate change and the way in which we see the transport sector to be designed. It will be to the advantage of shipping. We also give clear signals of an increased share of research for shipping, so that you notice and see that this is where it happens. There we will also see a positive development with electrification or, for that matter, another technological development, digitalisation. Of course, if this is to be possible, we also need stable conditions for the work that it is to act and create good dialogue and conditions for shipping to continue to develop. That is what the government takes responsibility for. However, we know that shipping is also dependent on other operators. They depend on how the municipalities that own their ports act, what port charges look like or how other modes of transport coordinate or can arrange their transport together with shipping. I believe in an increased precondition for intermodality, where road transport with automatic transhipment goes straight into shipping. In this way, we will strengthen both the competitiveness of ports and maritime transport. I will constantly ensure that we use the resources in the best possible way. Now the priority is to look at the total levy.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-150	Madam President, I would like Jessika Roswall has asked me what measures I will take to stop the illegal driving schools. The growing problem of black driving schools is worrying for a number of reasons. A lower knowledge base leads to fewer numbers of approved driving tests and longer test queues. Traffic schools that behave themselves suffer from unhealthy competition, and the state misses out on tax revenue. The Swedish National Road and Transport Research Institute's analysis from 2018 shows that the limitation to 15 permits per supervisor, introduced by the moderate-led government, is unlikely to have the desired effect. On the contrary, there is a risk that it has led to a significant number of darkness due to the fact that the black business is no longer seeking permission to supervise. It is very worrying that rogue educators can exploit the ignorance of weak customer groups. In order to improve driver training, the Swedish Transport Agency and the Finnish Transport Agency have carried out a broad review of the driver training system. Their report also deals with measures to combat illegal activities and is an important basis for further work. Several authorities have also been working together for several years to improve the exchange of information and more effective joint action against illegal traffic training. The cooperation has resulted in more tips on illegal activities to the authorities. There are therefore several promising work and proposals to improve the situation. Until the law is prepared. No one should doubt the government's willingness to take the necessary measures.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-156	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I know that this is not the first time the Government has been in this House to discuss illegal or illegal driving schools. But this is perhaps the first time this term of office has been. Let us therefore just briefly recapitulate the problem. According to information, 90 per cent of the 600 members of the Swedish Transport Education Association know or suspect that there is illegal practice driving activity in the places where they operate. Last year, the National Road and Transport Research Institute, VTI, submitted a report, which we also heard from the Government. It showed that the illegal activity is relatively widespread. Many feel that the problem is big. Others are a little more careful. But I understand that the Government agrees with me that this is a problem that is not of a minor nature. In the report you can also read what you can pay for. You can buy fake wrist certificates, supervised driving training, help to answer knowledge questions in connection with tests via an earpiece, booking a driver's test etc. The other day we were able to read in the media that the number of notifications to the Swedish Transport Agency regarding black traffic schools has doubled. You don't want to read news like that. It shows that, unfortunately, the problem has not subsided. Progress is going the wrong way. Of course, we do not know exactly how it develops, because the number of darkness is great. What we know is that in 2018 there were 3,394 cars with double-command that were not registered in traffic schools. Not everyone was used in illegal activities, of course, but as VTI and others have highlighted, it is perhaps time to find out what those cars are used for. In 2017, a man in Värmland was charged with serious accounting crimes when he was suspected of having been in black business on a large scale, with many pupils and extensive income. The Court of Appeal has just passed the judgment. He was convicted of serious book crimes. However, note that it was bookkeeping offences and not illegal traffic that were being tried. This was a sample of what we have been able to read about when it comes to this type of activity. The Moderates have long been pushing for it to be harder. A few months ago, the Swedish Parliament decided on an announcement to the Government to review and take a holistic approach to driver training, to limit the number of permits a supervisor may have to ten and to introduce a permit requirement for possession of vehicles with double command. Ultimately, this is about road safety issues. The person who is to take a driving licence should receive good and high quality training and become a safe driver. It feels particularly topical and important now because we know that the death toll in traffic increased sharply last year. But this is also a consumer issue. As the Government has highlighted in its response, it is a question of illegal activities that exploit the ignorance of weak groups for a purpose that is totally unacceptable. As I began my speech, it is not the first time that Minister Eneroth is in the Chamber to discuss the matter. He has had, and has, the ambition to improve the situation. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Government what is actually happening in this area.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-167	Madam President, I would like I appreciate Roswall Jessika's commitment. I do not think there are any political dividing lines with regard to limiting illegal driving schools. There is no doubt that this is an important road safety issue. We must ensure that you have a good driver training when you go on the road. However, we can see that this is not just a road safety issue. This is an illegal activity which is not actually related to traffic activities. It is not the case that the Swedish Transport Agency supervises an illegal activity. It's criminal activity. Right now, that business is about traffic schools. It could be about other black business within entrepreneurship. These are companies that operate without a licence. We also look at the sentence passed in Värmland on activities carried out for six years – in this case in the form of an illegal driving school. It's a serious book-keeping crime. It is important to remember that we need to tighten up the instruments to stop illegal business, regardless of what they are working with. There I hope that the Moderates are strongly committed, with the Ministry of Finance, in the Tax Committee and in the Finance Committee, to increasing the opportunities to take action against entrepreneurs who exploit people with a weak position, whether it is about their need for driving training or other things. An important contribution that we made during the last parliamentary term is about the CSN loans. When you can take CSN loans to take a driving licence, it is not just a way to lower the thresholds for some to afford a driving licence. It's expensive to take a driver's license today. As we link the CSN loan to you to hire an established education provider, it is a way to ensure that you go to a legal driving school. It is important that we find ways to constantly promote the serious players. I recently attended the annual meeting of the STR, and I am impressed by the work of the industry and the association. They are, of course, struggling with a tough competitive situation, and they are deeply committed to improving driver training. They collaborate with the Finnish Transport Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency on these issues. As far as the number of supervisor data is concerned, I noted that in its announcement the Committee on Transport wanted to make it more precise to ten. I was a little surprised, should I honestly say, given that the VTI so clearly said that the restriction to 15 had rather the opposite effect, i.e. that the restriction opened because it no longer chose to take in the condition of a wrist but instead used other instruments. Of course, the government will look at the announcement and return to the Riksdag. Otherwise, we are working intensively with several different proposals to restrict illegal driving school activities. An important part of this is, of course, to ensure that there is a reform of driver training, including the introduction of digital training protocols, as is done by operators. We should look at the impact of the CSN loans. I hope and believe that the Moderates are now also supporting CSN loans for driving licences. This was at first questionable, but I hope and believe that you now think it is a good proposal. There are also thoughts and ideas about developing the model to other types of driver activities. No one should doubt the government's ambition. It is important that we prevent people from being exploited, not least in terms of their willingness to take driving licences.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-176	Madam President, I would like I have another memory picture of the CSN loans. I think we've always thought they're a good idea. But that is not what my question was about. It is a good thing that the Government is serious and wants to take action, but, as I initially tried to raise, this is not a new problem. I know that the alliance government's limitation to a maximum of 15 mentoring states has not helped. I'll admit it. Then I'd like to recapitulate some more. Last year the Committee on Transport and Tourism wrote in its report that it assumed that the government would take the necessary steps to curb this illegal activity. All parties agreed on that. In connection with this year's announcement, which both the Government and I have highlighted, the S-V-MP parties state in their reservation that they do not want to make any change in the number of instructors' permits, and they do not want to make any change in dual command, but they want to follow the question. We have waited a year too, so the question is not new. But unfortunately, I think this is a tame and lame answer. I am pleased that the Riksdag instead made a decision a few months ago on a general review of driver training, in which the issue of illegal transport schools should also be included in the investigation. Upsala Nya Tidning had an article last December about a woman who on Facebook advertised driving lessons for SEK 300. I'm the mother of a 17-year-old daughter, and she's paying $150. Those who buy the 300 - crown lessons risk being sentenced or fined for not having the right permits. The woman is, of course, in danger of being convicted of book crimes and of receiving a financial penalty because she – perhaps – runs an illegal traffic school. The people who buy the lessons risk being hit twice as they then have to go to a legal and licensed driving school. These are criminal activities, but they are also unfair competition. The Swedish Transport Educator's National Association is clear about the consequences of unfair activity for them. It's serious. Of course, it is a good thing that the Government thinks this is an important issue, but we still do not see any concrete measures. What are the proposals to be reviewed? I do not quite understand that, except that you look at the issue and think it is serious. The VTI report contains a number of proposals, including the need for authorities to increase their cooperation. Of course it is the police because it is a criminal activity. It is also Transportstyrelsen, Trafikverket and Skatteverket. There are currently restrictive confidentiality rules, and it is unclear who has the ultimate responsibility to report illegal activities. More stringent penalties are being imposed on illegal activities. What many people lift up, including in UNT about the advertisement, is that the financial penalty is far too low and ineffective. In addition, there is a minimal risk of going there. The case we've been talking about is accounting crimes, not illegal traffic schools. The report talks about increased controls in theory tests. There are several examples of what can be done. There are also examples that both the student's and the supervisor's permission should be included. There are many more examples.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-187	Madam President, I would like There are many suggestions to look at. Now Jessika Roswall chose to read some of them. The report presented by Trafikverket and Transportstyrelsen shows, among other things, the need for clearer consumer information via a digital platform, restrictions on test vehicles to Trafikverket or traffic school vehicles, two mandatory guidance sessions at approved traffic school, a digital platform and mandatory educational protocols. There are a number of different issues alongside, as we have mentioned earlier, a discussion on how the CSN system could be a way of continuing to ensure that a serious and established training provider needs to be addressed in order to receive driver training. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the announcement by Parliament raises some questions. I have already mentioned the issue of the condition of a supervisor. Although VTI says that the limit to 15 had rather the opposite effect, we have received an announcement of 10. What impact does Jessika Roswall expect a limit of 15 to 10 on illegal driving schools? The second issue is the general review of driver training. A review has now been carried out by the Swedish Transport Administration and the Swedish Transport Agency. Should I interpret this as not wanting the change proposed by the Finnish Transport Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency to become a reality? If we are to postpone the changes in order instead to make a broader general review, we will be living with the current regulatory framework and current driver training for a long time to come. I have lived in the faith and the view that the industry and many stakeholders have felt that the revision of the modernisation proposals that has now been carried out was welcome. It may be good to have clarification. According to Jessika Roswall's opinion, does the announcement mean that the changes proposed by the Finnish Transport Administration and the Swedish Transport Agency are not to be implemented pending a general investigation?
i-46d6de902f6513ff-191	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. At last, I heard more concrete proposals and found out what is going on. I know I read out a number of suggestions, but that is what I would have liked to have heard in the last response from the Government. Unfortunately, I was not at that meeting, because I was not elected in committee when representatives of the industry were in committee for our motion report. But then the industry was clear that the investigation that has been carried out did not take into account just illegal driving schools and did not focus on the problems that are there, so I do not think that the two things are contradictory. That there was an announcement of 10 is a step along the way. 15 was not good; 10 is a better step along the way. It's better than doing nothing. We have had criticisms of the fact that there has been no more. Let me conclude by saying that in another interpellation debate on the same subject – it is not, as I said, the first time it has been discussed here – the Government said that it is important that the police have the resources to make raids and concerted efforts. He actually said that. The Government also said that it is therefore important to provide additional resources to the police. Today, the Government says that this is criminal activity, and I fully agree with that – that is exactly what it is. But what has happened since then? The number of police officers has decreased during the period. And some time ago we saw the government's spring change budget, which we are going to decide on, where the government and the government's cooperation parties conclude that the police's resources need to be reduced. It's very different and strange that you do. We think we need more traffic police. This is, of course, about criminal activity, which we have been dealing with, so I regret that you are drawing that conclusion. Madam President, I would like I'd rather not have more interpellation debates about illegal driving schools with the government. I hope that we can curb this activity. However, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate and to wish everyone a pleasant castle.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-197	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jessika Roswall! Yes, resources for the police and more traffic police are important. In this case, however, I believe that this is primarily a question of eco-crime. It is about ensuring that economic crime can be stopped, and that may not be the task of the traffic police. Better efforts are needed here, whether it be driver training and driving schools or other illegal activities. I am concerned that this has been so widespread and that there has not been the right effort to stop it. That's why it's a good thing we're sending resources to the police. When VTI says that 15 wrist conditions have had the opposite effect, it is not certain that 10 of them have any positive effect. We may have been guilty of the answer here, as I said, but we will have to return to that question. If we now have a general review according to the initiative supported by the Transport Committee, should it be interpreted as meaning that the review and the work done by the Finnish Transport Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency has been unnecessary? This is a process that has been carried out together with the entire industry, where the whole of driver training is modernised and where a lot of parts are important in order to get a good driver training in the future. Should it be paused while waiting for a parliamentary inquiry or something else? I think that would be unfortunate. I think it is urgent to modernise Swedish driver training. I do not think that Mrs Roswall and I fundamentally disagree on this. We represent different parties but both find it totally unacceptable that people should be fooled because they want a good driver training. We think it's good that we have an industry, not least STR, that does what it can to save lives – because that's what it does when it provides a solid and good driver training to those who want driving licences. If that's what I want, I want to keep working together. I really wish Jessika Roswall a nice waltz. We may not see each other under the banners on 1 May, but we'll see you in Parliament in the future. Have a good time!
i-46d6de902f6513ff-202	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me if I and the government will decide that the construction of Österleden will begin during the term of office, or if the plans are scrapped. On 31 May 2018, the Government established a new national traffic law-crossing plan for the transport infrastructure for the period 2018-2029 and decided that Österleden, or Eastern connection as it is now called, should start with a so-called organised closure. This means that Trafikverket completes the project itself. However, the Finnish Transport Agency is also working to develop a basis for defining and specifying the land requirements that may be needed in the future. I note that the region and the municipalities concerned themselves have chosen not to give priority to the project. The Swedish negotiation could of course conclude that there were no conditions for any letter of intent or agreement in principle regarding co-financing of the project.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-205	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Eastern connection is the last link in the ring trail. The Government is aware of that. The Stockholm bypass is under construction despite major delays in starting due to the Environmental Party. The Government knows that. The Dennis package, negotiated by former Secretary of State Bengt Dennis, was an agreement between the Moderates and the Social Democrats with the support of other bourgeois parties and was decided in 1992. It was many years ago now – 27 years ago. Already then they saw the need for a ring trail in Stockholm. Stockholm is probably the only capital in Europe that does not have a ring road. I think Tirana has got one now; in that case only Stockholm does not have one. The proposal was to solve a traffic problem in the Stockholm region in the long term. It had been worked out for many years – in broad political unity, as I mentioned, between parts of the bourgeoisie and the Social Democrats. If major traffic investments are to be made, it is in principle essential that the Moderates and the Social Democrats agree and understand the problem of traffic. This was planned to be implemented over a period of 15 years. Unfortunately, it stopped. The Social Democrats started working with the Green Party; I think it was 1994 or ‐ 95. Then the whole Dennis package was compromised – in 1997 the red-green parties decided to close the Dennis package, which was very unfortunate. In 2006, the Government took office at Reinfeldt. A Stockholm negotiation was immediately set up, which was led by former bourgeois council Carl Cederschiöld. He led the work exemplaryly in consultation with all the municipal council chairmen in the county, blue as red and regardless of political colour. It was a very fruitful cooperation, which I myself participated in. In the negotiation, Eastern connections were put back – in the long term, not in the short term. Unfortunately, it has not yet been implemented. In 2014, the Government of Reinfeldt had the funding to build Eastern Connection clear and a proposal for a solution. The 2014 election meant a change of government, and the red-greens took over the government power. Once again, the Red-Green Government decided during the last parliamentary term to tear up the proposal to build Österleden. The January agreement does not say a word about Eastern relations. On the other hand, Norrbotniabanan will be expanded and high-speed trains will be investigated. It is incomprehensible to me that, when the railways have so neglected maintenance, they want to build a completely new railway, instead of investing in what they already have. Why are the Government and Government so negative about investing in the Stockholm region? The Stockholm region is an engine in Sweden and pays about 45 percent of income tax and 40 percent of all taxes. The government appears to be increasingly hostile to Stockholm.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-216	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell Jansson! There is a lot to comment on in connection with Kjell Jansson's speech. It is true that the Reinfeldt Government took office in 2006. But we should remember that it took about seven years before it was possible to give directives to the Stockholm negotiations to discuss the design of an eastern road link. It took another year for money to be set aside, and that was $1 billion. I think everyone realises that Eastern connections cost considerably more than 1 billion. The year before the election year 2014 was chosen for the first time to give priority to the question of Eastern connections. The national plan that we have drawn up and which is now in force includes investment of 700 billion. It is the largest railway investment in modern times, with four tracks between Stockholm and Uppsala and the possibility of the construction of 50,000 homes, large investments in the Stockholm area and also the negotiations that have enabled investments in metro and other public transport. I strongly disagree with the description that what we are doing would be anti-Stockholm, with the heavy, large investments being made in the Stockholm area. But in the run-up to the national plan, I met representatives of the Stockholm region, the Chamber of Commerce and many other actors to hear what priorities were. One of the most important priorities mentioned was not Eastern connection but Cross-connection Södertörn. It is now part of a national plan and is an important part of finding good transport links, not least in view of the investments made in Norvik and Norvik Port to strengthen access to shipping. National plan got a broad consensus. When it was presented, many stakeholders were satisfied, both from the Chambers of Commerce and from the regions. That is why I was surprised when, in the final stage of the electoral movement, we heard moderate representatives, not only representatives in the Stockholm region but also, in fact, party leader Ulf Kristersson, talking about Eastern connections again, despite the fact that an orderly conclusion was in progress and the conditions in the region were not seen to find a solution. The question I have to ask Kjell Jansson is how you intend to finance this. Is it by redeployment within the national plan? Should cross-connection Södertörn be stopped in favour of Eastern connection, or is it perhaps the four track between Uppsala and Stockholm that should be stopped? After all, more money for infrastructure does not have the Moderates within national planes, but you need to redistribute. If you really want to prioritise Eastern relations, as you said in the election campaign that you would do, I wonder how it will be financed. I think it is important for governments, whatever their party colours, to listen to the priorities of the region. The region prioritises in this case Cross-connection Södertörn, and it is an important investment that is now included in the national plan, in the same way as the important investments made throughout Sweden. The lighthouse track between Uppsala and Stockholm will have a major impact on the Stockholm region, as well as investments in Södertälje Canal and other investments we make. In this country, we stick together and do not pit regions against each other.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-223	Madam President and Minister Eneroth. The Moderates are not opposed to any investment in infrastructure, except that we are highly hesitant about high-speed trains. All the other investments that you listed we think are good; that is not something we have gone against. The satisfaction of the Chambers of Commerce is, of course, due to the fact that it is about what is coming or nothing. That the subway needs to be expanded is crystal clear. The Roslagsbanan must be extended – it is also clear – if you are to pass the construction plans that exist. The answer I get from the Government is that this has been abandoned with Eastern relations. Nacka and Värmdölandet will be dead end. You have to cross the Central Bridge to get out to Nacka and Värmdö. It's also not very good for the environment to go around and into town to get there, I think. A certain passivity characterises the government on this issue. The Green Party has well put ultimatum and said that you must not build more traffic routes – you must only expand trains and tracks. That's where the shoe squeezes, I'm afraid. Yeah, seven years took it. I said that Eastern connections were involved, but there were a lot of other investments in the Cederschiöld package. Among other things, at home in Norrtälje we have a new bypass that is funded by the Cederschiöld package. It was planned for 65 years, and then it came off. It was set aside 1 billion, yes. But there were also proposals on fees and there were discussions on co-financing. This is one way to solve things. Of course, 1 billion is not enough money; we are in complete agreement, the Government and I. All new investments are good. It's not something we're opposed to. Södertörnsleden we are most for, because it is really needed. In my world, it is incredible that both the government and the governments support the construction of a new port, and that is not the way to organise the infrastructure. Then they say: Now we need to build a Södertörn trail, when the harbour is built. Is all the goods now going to go into the Southern Link and further south? That's a big detour. I understand that the Government may share my view that it should have been built much earlier. I was asked how to finance Eastern connections. There are several options. Of course, a little more money is needed. You can re-prioritise so that you do not have to remove other investment projects. The government's investments go to operation. It is not like in the municipalities that money is being borrowed for investment. You can also possibly have a bompeng. You can imagine selling a government company and taking that money home and investing. It is not necessary for the state to run all the companies it currently operates. There are mixed successes on that side, you might say.
i-2Qn9CjEZMSxDyiK5Sz2gsU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell Jansson, for your answer! It is clear that I can understand the Moderates' general view of selling out state-owned companies. It has sometimes been done with limited success. I won't mention Nuon. But if we want to bring Eastern connections into national planes, we need to re-prioritise within national planes. That is why I ask the question of which projects should then move. I believe that the Moderates are responsible for the answer, unless you want to find a completely new model for financing infrastructure, regardless of the amount of money you pay, congestion charges or the equivalent. It is not true that there is a dead hand over road investments in the Stockholm region. I have the privilege of living in the Skärholm area and see every day how Bypass Stockholm is built. It is currently being built, and major investments are being made in the Stockholm region in a project that may not have been planned for 65 years, but for a very long time. In addition to this is Cross-connection Södertörn. In addition, of course, major investments are being made in public transport, not least rail transport. For climate reasons, we will need to increase those investments. I'm concerned about the agitation about high-speed trains or new main roads. I think we need to be aware that, if commuter trains and freight services are to arrive, we need increased capacity. It is crowded in Sweden's railway system. We have years of underinvestment behind us, when they did not invest even though the Swedish people wanted to ride more trains and Swedish companies wanted to send more goods by train. This is why we now have to make the greatest investment in modern times. We are making a 47% increase in railway maintenance, which means that Getingmidjan, this part in the middle of Stockholm where there is a train every two minutes, is shut down even this summer. For the first time, we can afford, opportunity and conditions to prioritise the closure of the entire railway line in order to fundamentally renovate something that should have been renovated a long time ago. If we build new capacity and new main roads, the conditions for commuter trains and freight trains will also increase in time. Right now, the challenge is for a slow commuter or freight train to be penetrated by X2000 and other long-distance trains. That's when we get concerned, when it's tight and too little capacity. In addition to the railway infrastructure initiatives – the renovation of G etingmidjan or anything else that is absolutely necessary to increase the reliability of the rail system, not least in the Stockholm area – it is absolutely necessary to also increase capacity. Then we'll have to build new main roads. Although Kjell Jansson is an interpreter for a certain opinion, I have understood that this is not the view of the Moderates, but that there are many moderate representatives who are positive about the construction of new main roads. They see the conditions if we build the route via Linköping and Norrköping, if we come to Jönköping, Lund or Hässleholm. They see the conditions in the Stockholm region, Gothenburg and Borås to create fast and good connections, increase the conditions for labour market regions to commute and at the same time change Swedish transport system for the climate challenges. Engagement in Eastern Connection and Cross-connection Södertörn in all honour, but if we are to meet climate challenges in the future, it is more sustainable transport we need to invest in. That is why we choose to prioritise rail and shipping. I don't want anyone to doubt that.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-242	Madam President, I would like The Government lists many infrastructure developments in Sweden today – G etingmidjan and much more. We in the Moderates are not against it. Nor are we in any way opposed to building lighthouse tracks to Uppsala. What we are doubtful about is the high-speed road, which is something completely new.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-244	To build a high speed track that does not go all the way to Stockholm c entral and to Arlanda is completely wasted money. It is also astronomical investment. The Government is asking you how to finance an Eastern relationship. These are limited amounts, unlike the high-speed rail, which involve astronomical amounts. We are talking about hundreds of billions. It's perceived as phobias. Today it takes four hours to go down by train to Malmö. That's not a long time. I think it works pretty well. Nacka and Värmdö are pushing hard for Eastern connections, as well as Stockholm County. On the other hand, the City of Stockholm, as the Government mentions, is more hesitant, and that has its reasons. The environmental party is working in the constellation there, and they are not at all positive about road construction and traffic routes. It's common knowledge. Of course, we will not remove any other investment projects. We will provide funds. I have mentioned some suggestions here. But it is not included to remove stuff from existing national planes. It can be revised, and you can do that with more money. Then I have a question for the Government: When do you intend to start the construction of Södertörn Trail? The government has promised it will be here. When does the construction start?
i-46d6de902f6513ff-249	Madam President, I would like The latter is decided in a national plan. Just look at the time the plan exists and the mission that the Swedish Transport Administration has received. That is the starting point for the government's decision. We have not made any other decisions. I'm worried when Kjell Jansson talks about phobias– I think that's the concept he used. It is a rather bad signal to send to the moderates in the country who think this is the most important investment ever. It gives their region an opportunity to grow. They may have promised the construction of 100,000 homes along the route. It would be good if the Moderates could find a common picture of how to view the construction of new main roads. If we want to tackle the problems in rail traffic, we need to increase capacity. A short-term part is to make major investments in rail maintenance, and we do, but more capacity is needed. We have 49 operators operating in a railway system that is heavily loaded and heavily worn down, and it is crowded on the tracks. Since the entire Swedish people want to ride more trains – I get daily requests for this – we need to build more capacity. We also need to do so in order to meet the climate challenges facing Sweden. Road traffic can't swell any more. Although, with my background in the automotive industry, I am optimistic about the preconditions for the road transport sector to switch with biofuels and electrification, there is no doubt that more goods must go by rail. More transport must go by rail and, for that matter, also by sea. This calls for increased capacity. It is not within the framework of the national plan, but it goes beyond that. We shall not have a conflict between investments in the South East Link and the Norrbotnia Line on the one hand and the high-speed train on the other. No, this goes beyond. I hope that the answers here in relation to Eastern relations are clear. For me, regional participation is important. It is also important to me that we continue to invest heavily in infrastructure. There I know Kjell Jansson and I agree.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-255	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that culture is kept free of political control, so that artistic freedom is not restricted. I would like to start by thanking Lotta Finstorp for raising this subject. It is urgent and important that we discuss this. The question is raised in the light of the fact that the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis has assessed in its annual report that this is an important issue to study more closely. In order for this discussion to take place on the right premises, it should first of all be made clear that the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis, as suggested in the interpellation, does not itself make the assessment that political governance from cross-sectoral perspectives is so strong that it restricts artistic freedom or that the principle of arm's length has been partially eliminated. On the other hand, the Authority believes that this has been argued in the public debate and that no systematic mapping or analysis of possible contradictions between professional criteria and cross-sectoral policy objectives has been carried out. The freedom of culture is fundamental in cultural policy and set out in national cultural policy objectives. The principle of arm's length means that politicians should not interfere in matters such as decisions on artistic content or what scientific perspectives are used in the work of cultural heritage institutions. This is important to establish. Cultural policy efforts will contribute to creating the conditions for achieving the national cultural policy objectives as a whole, thus allowing culture to be the very dynamic, challenging and unbounding force it should be on the basis of freedom of expression. This is something I, the Minister for Culture and Democracy, will continue to work for with vigour.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-259	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by being very clear with the Culture Analysis Report 2019 because the Minister addresses it in the answer. I really tried to formulate my question so that it would not appear that it was the Authority's own opinion or analysis of the situation. Let me therefore quote on page 80 of the report. Then we build on this a little bit. The debate is based largely on assessments of artists and cultural policy debaters. That is exactly what the Minister also says. So we have the same starting point. So it is not the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis that says this, but they have listened to this buzzing. As far as I am concerned, this is worrying enough and makes me actually want to raise this issue and have a debate on the freedom of culture and the principle of arm's length. The very essence of cultural policy is that we politicians do not have our fingers in the jam jar. We are living in a troubled time and are seeing ever greater contradictions here at home and abroad. In that situation, we need the stories of culture more than ever. Art and culture help us to understand ourselves and the person we meet. It's about how we relate to our time and how we deal with our present and future, but also history. Therefore, I would say that culture has never played a greater role than it is now. For example, libraries have never had more weight and weight than they have today, as counterweight to fake news, for example. Culture is the tickle between people. I usually say that different policy areas, councils in municipalities and committees in parliament are divided into drainpipes, but culture is the tick and gutter in between. This, I think, makes it very tricky to talk about economic aspects and results when it comes to culture. It is not possible to measure how the conversation between people is going on and how it brings the present and the future forward. In this respect, we cultural politicians must insist on the importance of cross-sectoral solutions. I think this is a very exciting area, where I am also completely new. I am probably looking at it with some other glasses, compared to many others who have been involved in cultural policy much longer than I have. We are now celebrating 100 years of democracy and the struggle that was waged for us to say: now we have universal suffrage. It's amazing, and we have to protect it every day. We can never take it for granted. It's a long fight. When I wrote this interpellation, I was thinking of the concerns that actually lie in the debate about arm's length. You see the power of culture. What is the first thing that has been done in many countries where there has been a revolution and the dictatorship has taken over? Yes, the TV tower has been taken. The editorial services of the media have been taken. Artists and writers have been imprisoned. There you can really see the explosive power of culture. I do not really have a new question, but I can feel a concern that people who are cultural practitioners and who see us in cultural policy think we are in the jam jar. How can we further clarify that we are not?
i-46d6de902f6513ff-268	Madam President, I would like Thanks again, Lotta Finstorp! I largely share all the perspectives you lift. This is true of the fact that free art and culture may never have been more important and that we as politicians are doing what we can to mark the distance of arm's length and emphasise the freedom of culture and artists. But it's also about providing the best possible conditions for artists to work. It is precisely when artists get to work in freedom and when they have the opportunity to try their way – both succeed and fail, break and affirm rules and actually stand in contrast to the prevailing power – that the best ideas can be born. And that is true, no matter who or who currently holds the political or economic power. Therefore, arm's length is an important principle. Lotta Finstorp talks about a little different threats to the freedom of artists and cultural creators. I can tie in there and establish that I see several threats to artistic freedom, of a slightly different character. There is a threat that tragically too many writers and artists but also elected representatives live under. It is a question of threats and hates and restrictions on free speech. A kind of self-censorship is at risk when you are forced to endure threats and hatred. There I am pleased with the work of the previous government on the action plan against threats and hatred, which is important to continue with. Another example is the tough conditions under which artists often have to work. This could create a risk of adapting to the economic conditions under which one is placed, with many temporary jobs. In the next interpellation debate, we will debate the conditions of artists, but I believe that this is also linked to the issue of artistic integrity and freedom. The next example is when political leaders take the totally unacceptable freedom to enter and attack various forms of free artistic expression. Perhaps we are seeing it especially in the outside world right now. But even in Sweden you can see how politicians at different levels may attack or criticize art that they consider offensive or morally questionable. It can be anything from sloping flagpoles and art in the subway to various kinds of murals that some politicians seem to fear. It is also, of course, about the enormous danger of drawing up different guidelines and directives that go directly into artistic activity and assessment. There we must be clear and clear that there should be arm's length distance and artistic freedom. I think it is important that we take this debate and that we carry it on and that we do it in an honest and nuanced way. I think Lotta Finstorp also signals this. That makes me happy. Of course there's a difference. One may want to have cross-sectoral perspectives on a particular activity, for example that the Swedish Arts Council should work with accessibility. It should not, however, be part of the individual artistic work assessment. There have been some such wordings in previous regulatory letters. I am pleased that my predecessor, Alice Bah Kuhnke, removed this when working on the cultural heritage bill and stated that there should be freedom from the cultural heritage institutions. I am prepared, and I am determined, to look further at this and see if there are any more such measures we need to take to clarify artistic freedom and the freedom of culture towards politics.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-275	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Minister for Culture really is on this issue and is thinking about how to make this even clearer. It is a balancing act. It is about cultural policy and ambitions from the government but also from different parties about how to pursue this. It is also a balancing process in terms of how much you should then control. For example, I sit and talk to cultural workers and artists of various kinds. Many live in periods of work grants. They receive grants from the Swedish Arts Council or other authorities. We have 23 authorities in this area – so there are many. It is described as follows: When I am looking for money for my artistry, ideas and thoughts and my creativity, I have to fill out the forms based on different parameters. I'll do it as carefully as I can. Otherwise, I might not get the work grant, for example. It's like a signal, but wait a minute, what's the balance line like? I know that Cultural Analysis in the report Cultural Analysis 2019 addresses the cross-sectoral concept of diversity. For example, how should we define diversity? It permeates a lot – different forms of scholarships and different grants that cultural practitioners can apply for. There are other examples of this as well. I wonder what the Minister thinks about the national strategies and ambitions that exist from the government but also from the parliament that it should be in a certain way. Where's the limit because you're not in there poking so that the arm's length becomes a thumbnote? That is the discussion that I also hear when I'm out meeting cultural workers. There is, of course, a great understanding that culture must have a policy. But how much should it be implemented all the way down? KRO, the National Association of Artists, had something called kulturvalen.se before the election. They had a question in the cultural policy survey. At national level, most of us know exactly what is meant by arm's length. However, only 15 per cent of municipalities clearly answered yes to the question of whether they have a policy to guarantee artists their artistic freedom, such as the principle of arm's length. Seven out of ten municipalities remarkably answered no to that question, says KRO. There is a gap between how cultural policy works at municipal level and what the parliamentary parties express at national level. It is rather worrying if this is not connected. Now that we also have the cultural cooperation model, this should somehow pervade all the way.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-282	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with what Lotta Finstorp says about how crucial artistic freedom is to cultural life and to society at large. We have a responsibility – in state cultural policy but also, of course, at municipal and regional level – to ensure that artistic freedom not only becomes a writing in a policy but is something that one lives and works for. It should never be a political salute without meaning. I would like to take a concrete example. With regard to this type of objective of cultural policy, I think we agree that the wording is good. We want to make culture accessible to more people in different ways. We want to ensure that more groups are allowed to participate in culture and can also act as artists and cultural creators themselves. But there is an absolutely crucial difference between the overall work of an authority or of an area of activity on the one hand and the concrete criteria for assessing different artistic projects and different contributions on the other. A great deal of the debate that has been held has slipped a little wrong. This applies, for example, to the debate on museums and literature support. One did not fully understand how the state grant was working, so one drew big turns on something that was not the case; there is a very clear separation between these two issues. Let me take one example again, cultural heritage policy. The former Moderate Minister for Culture ordered the cultural heritage institutions to take into account different perspectives in the content of their activities. That was something that my predecessor, Alice Bah Kuhnke, took away when writing about cultural heritage policy. This is a typical example of the need to be vigilant about the type of wording that goes right into the business. There I share Lotta Finstorp's ambition. It is good that we have it today: that a large part of the state subsidies allocated by the authorities are decided by the profession itself, for example by having assessment groups with members who are regularly replaced. There are no politicians in those groups. I think that is an important principle. We must, of course, see whether this is a system that needs to be developed in more areas. I would also like to stress very strongly that I am in favour of what the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis highlights, that is, the need for a possible in-depth review of this area. I mean, all knowledge is good. It also strengthens me as a minister to be able to take the necessary steps to further secure artistic freedom if necessary.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-287	Madam President, I would like In our area of cultural policy, there are very rapid changes with digital platforms and so on, and there is a need to discuss. I think that there is always a need for a rolling review of these issues, so that we never go wrong from politics and end up too close to content. When it comes to what is good culture, we must really be careful to be inside and think different things – there are so many varieties in the world. North Korea probably has the world's largest cultural budget. One might think that a large cultural budget is good, but it is totally governed by politics. There we are absolutely not, and I do not even want to compare. That is indeed the extreme, where a politician talks about what it should look like. I am pleased that we have a total consensus that we must protect free culture. As soon as there is the slightest warning signal, we must be there to watch and perhaps back home. I am very happy about this discussion. I am also pleased that the Minister for Culture really has an eye on this. I think that being a cultural politician municipally is also a good background. I, who sit in the municipal council, will take this home with me and see how we think in my municipality about the question of arm's length. I don't really think that's how you talk about it at all.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-290	Madam President, I would like We have a changing society, just as Lotta Finstorp says. As society changes, it may be that a sub-perspective suddenly becomes the perspective of power and government. For this very reason, art and culture are needed as a creative, exploratory and criticizing force. There are several threats to artistic freedom today. I think we should look at this with open eyes. The increased frequency of hate and threats to artists risks leading to totally unacceptable self-censorship. The tough conditions for those who act as artists can lead to an adaptation to the prevailing power or the benefit systems that exist. Unfortunately, there are also politicians at all levels who tend to go in and review and even think that as Minister of Culture I should intervene in an individual art project. It is extremely important that we stand up together and mark against this. As Minister of Culture, I will work every day to ensure that the conditions for cultural creators are strengthened and that artistic freedom is preserved. I will not hesitate to obtain more basis for this if deemed necessary. With that, I would like to thank you for this important debate.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-294	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to implement the proposals in the Artist report – regardless of the conditions? ( SOU 2018:23) and improve the financial security of artists. Let me state that the individual creators of culture are the absolute foundations of cultural life. What the artists produce is at the heart of both free cultural life and the variety of cultural institutions throughout the country. Creating better conditions for artists to live on and develop their artistry is therefore important for the accessibility and regrowth of culture. In addition, it is a question of the right of cultural creators to work under reasonable conditions. The artistic policy investigation provides an updated current state of play description of the conditions for professionally active artists and how the profession is affected by international changes such as digitalisation, urbanisation and changing conditions in the labour market. The results of the investigation were submitted to the government last March, and the report has been referred to a total of 204 referrals. There is now a solid basis for me to continue working on these issues. I would already like to make it clear that one of my main priorities as Minister of Culture is to strengthen the conditions for artists and creators of culture. There is a need for an artistic policy that can contribute more effectively than before to artists' opportunities to operate professionally.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-298	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. What would Sweden be like without culture? And who stays in a creative industry if you can't live on your wages? KRO has calculated that the average salary of an artist is SEK 13 000 per month and that many refrain from becoming parents because of the economy and the low parental allowance. This is extremely worrying. Many artists I have talked to testify to the numerous extra jobs that need to be done in order for them to pay rent and subsistence. When you get an assignment that will eventually generate an income, generally the work of art must first be created before the proceeds are in the account. From what I understand when I have met different artists with assignments for public spaces, there is little difference in terms of the possibility of getting revenue before you have brought in your finished work. You have to finish your extra work and work at least 40 hours a week with what you have to deliver. You have a delivery date. In the meantime, you have very little income to live on. This is a problem. When it comes to a Sweden without culture, I can make fun of it or harden it a bit. I guess we've all sung some love balled in the shower or written a love poem when we as teenagers were unhappyly in love. But everyone who says that they are not interested in culture has the culture with them in the form of all books and so on. Of course, artists must devote all their time to creating. Of course, they will not be able to work and watch at night, because they will have to focus entirely on what they are supposed to do and what they have promised to deliver. If artists are to make a living from their work, they need both demand and fair compensation for the work they do. But I believe that society at large takes for granted that art and culture should only exist. The fact that I have a great deal of focus on this issue is because we can't have it this way anymore. When you look at the SOU that's made– I think it's very thorough – it shows very clearly that we can't have it in such a way that some of the professionals in Sweden are not part of the social security system in the same way as those who are employed or those who have a company. It's hard even if you have a business. That is why the social security system is actually made for those who are workers and work 8 to 5 five days a week, if I am going to tighten it up. I spent four and a half years in the Social Security investigation. This is precisely about the liberal professions, or what we should call them, which should actually have been dealt with urgently. This is the category of professionals who have it really difficult today to get, for example, sickness benefit, be able to show their SGI and so on. I have received some answers when it comes to the artistic policy investigation. But I think it's taking too long. We finished the investigation in 2015, and already then the investigation was courted by journalists, self-employed people, those who have an F tax note and so on and do not work annually in the same way as the employee. I do not understand why it takes so long to get a good system in place for these groups too.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-307	Madam President, I would like I fully share this picture of the fundamental role of artists in society at large and in cultural life in particular. It is about the possibility of giving children and young people access to culture and being inspired to their own creation and about people affected by art and culture experiencing it in streets and squares, in performances and when they open a book. It is about the creative industries that Sweden has. In all these activities, there is an individual artist, an individual cultural creator, in the middle. We must never forget that. This SOU – Artist – regardless of conditions? – was handed over to the government on 28 March last year. Then there was an election movement, and there was a transitional government. But as soon as I took office, I pointed out that this is one of my most important cultural policy priorities, and I will of course take these issues further. This study is under preparation and I cannot anticipate the preparation process for these proposals. But I would like to comment on what Lotta Finstorp mentions about just how important it is to work with unemployment insurance, social security and that the social security systems also work for the rather unique situation that artists and cultural creators find themselves in. It is about many temporary contracts, perhaps seasonal contracts, and they may work under scholarships. Even as an artist and cultural creator, you should of course be able to have children, be on parental leave and be able to retire and feel that you can live under fair and decent conditions. Nevertheless, it is positive that the directives on the ongoing unemployment insurance report indicate that it should also take account of the artist's policy investigation. Of course, I am watching this, and I think it is important. Then I cannot anticipate that process. I can also add that, in addition to the state artist policy and what is in this investigation, it is about, as highlighted in the investigation, that the systems should work and that there should be good opportunities for access to education for people of different backgrounds, that is, that we need to broaden artistic recruitment. The state grants and grants are also seen as very important. There is an interesting proposal for an artist's fund, which exists in Norway, which has been looked at. It also highlights the value and importance of regional culture, i.e. the regional cultural institutions that can employ artists and creators, and which can have missions that spread the cultural infrastructure throughout the country. There, of course, the cultural cooperation model is the most important basis. As Lotta Finstorp also points out, we also come to the importance of politicians everywhere in the country bearing this responsibility, i.e. ensuring that when they procure art and do different types of artistic projects, the artist does not let the artist be the one who sits and works for free at a meeting but actually designs processes on fair terms. There, the Arts Board now has a task to work with supporting municipalities and regions with this, and they have selected some pilot municipalities that can apply to deepen their competence. I think that is a very important piece of work, and we should continue to do so.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-313	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for that. There are many of us waiting for the creative industries and the professionals there to enter the social security system. They pay taxes just like most others. I believe that one- and two-year work grants are not taxed, but they are also not pensionable. And this applies not only to artists and creative industries, but to one- and two-year scholarships is not pensionable. If you are to create based on having received work grants, it must be ensured that they actually apply just like any salary in order for it to be good from the social security system. When you look at the investigation Artist- no matter the conditions? For example, women artists' pay levels are below male. I think this investigation is very well done. Especially for me who is new in this area, it meant that I could acquire very good knowledge and background. It is very wide in its kind. It will be interesting to see what the consultation bodies say but also what the government comes up with and how it will proceed. You have to look at the creative industries for what they are. Looking at the growth in GDP in this area, it is beginning to look very good. I know, for example, that Region Sörmland has spoken to Sörmland Tourism AB and asked how Sörmland Tourism can ensure that culture comes more into the tourism industry and how it can be highlighted. You can see that there are winnings to be made. Then cultural creators must also have reasonable conditions to be able to participate in this race, as you might call it, i.e. the tourism industry. This has been very clearly measured by the Swedish Agency for Growth. The Kreamer is very good to look at. I think we also need to be even better at highlighting creative industries. You can hear that culture is tiring. But now it's black and white that it's actually not like that. You can really measure it here. One can compare with the previous interpellation debate on the free culture and the tick between the health, school and care pillars. Maybe it's harder to measure it there. But when it comes to the tourism industry and the creative industries as part of industrial policy and in the business world in Sweden, it becomes very clear how you can actually measure this. I like it a lot. As far as the sector's contribution to GDP is concerned, the study shows how cultural enterprise grows and exports for billions. For example, there are 128 000 activities in cultural and creative industries, and they grow every year. Finally, before I have my last speech, I will mention that this contributed at least SEK 130 billion – or 3.1 percent – to the bnp in 2015. It has increased since then; it was the last number I found.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-322	Madam President, I would like It is very important perspective Lotta Finstorp takes up. It's basically about not seeing culture, art and creativity as a special interest, but as something that actually permeates our whole society and our whole social development. Art and culture have a fundamental intrinsic value – but also many good, positive effects that we protect, love and want more of. Then one cannot forget the individual cultural creator. Although there may be an old view that it is suffering that breeds the best art, I think that few cultural creators in Sweden would agree with that. Security systems are an important part, and they are watching the investigation. This also applies to different opportunities for young cultural creators to get into a good way, as well as to all parts relating to different types of economic structures that are of course also needed. I very much hope that Lotta Finstorp and all of us who are cultural politicians – both nationally, in this case, as well as regionally and municipally – will also see that there is an economy in this. You cannot expect artists and cultural creators to work for free, but we will ensure that there are good conditions. It is about both public art and being able to do those procurements in a good way as well as seeing what we can do to strengthen the efforts the state is making to enable more artists to operate under fair and decent conditions. In order to demonstrate the importance of art and culture in our common social fabric, I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the policy of shaped living environment developed during the last term of office, with objectives for this purpose. It determines the importance of art and creativity when we shape different environments and build our society. It points out, for example, the 1% rule, which, of course, many municipalities and regions – and we as a state – have a responsibility to meet in various types of investment. As I said, the investigation is exciting and gives a good picture of artists' conditions today. It is a very highly educated group which unfortunately has extremely low incomes in relation to the different types of values created by culture – and the value of free culture, which absolutely cannot be measured in money. So we must continue to stand up and fight here. I look forward to being able to come back with how we take the artistic policy investigation further.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-327	Madam President, I would like I'm looking forward to a bill coming up after the investigation. As the Minister is also the Minister for Sport, I would like to say that sport is the world's best preventive measure in terms of social inclusion. People are included in sport, and this applies to children and young people. That is why we may have to invest most in children and young people, in order to have a preventive function and social inclusion. I would also like to make a contribution that is very political: as soon as there are tax increases for families with children, for example, and they get less money in their wallets, it is not often cultural experiences that they draw into. We must ensure that those who exist in creative industries can not only get paid for their assignments but also form part of the social security system in the same way as most people in Sweden do. I think it will be interesting to come back once the government has landed on how to proceed with the investigation's proposals. There are a number of very concrete proposals on how creative industries' cultural workers and entrepreneurs can operate in a healthy labour market and with a healthy economy in order to do good for the rest of us. That is what this is about.
i-46d6de902f6513ff-332	Madam President, I would like I note that I and Lotta Finstorp seem to agree that it is important that cultural creators and artists can work under reasonable conditions, and we seem to agree on the importance of artists for a vital cultural life. Lotta Finstorp mentioned tax increases, which is why I would also like to raise the issue of tax cuts. The problem and the challenge of major tax cuts is that they offer fewer opportunities to strengthen, for example, the cultural co-operation model and that fewer investments in our cultural life are possible. Unfortunately, I note that the Moderates' budget for our change was surprisingly empty of cultural policy proposals. I hope, however, that we can continue and that Lotta Finstorp and the Moderates also see that investments in culture can take place before tax cuts in future budget work. An artist's policy is needed. There have been major changes in society, and artists today live under many unacceptable conditions. This applies both to the economic conditions and to the security systems that are not adapted and to the fact that one is exposed to hatred and threats, which poses a risk to artistic freedom. We have dealt with this in a previous interpellation debate. That is why we need to address artistic issues in a comprehensive, secure and clear manner. Although we do not share all the analyses and answers, I am pleased that the question has been raised, and I would like to thank Lotta Finstorp for the interpellation debate.
