i-eb39dda2cbd71049-2	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked the Minister for Finance and Housing, as well as the Deputy Minister for Finance, what measures he intends to take to ensure that children's sports at sports grounds are not assessed as industrial noise. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The question is raised in the light of a media-based injunction for measures to be taken to reduce noise pollution from a sports ground. The case has been appealed to the Land and Environment Court of Appeal at Svea Court of Appeal, but the issue of leave to appeal has not yet been resolved. Maria Stockhaus points out that a judgment in the case may be indicative and, if so, affect sports facilities throughout the country. The Government cannot and will not affect the position of the courts and cannot review individual cases or the practices developed in decisions of higher courts such as the Land and the Environmental Court of Appeal. I cannot therefore comment on the circumstances of the individual case or speculate on the consequences of a possible judgment. Madam President, I would like The environmental code aims, among other things, to protect human health and the environment. With the support of the environmental code, requirements can be made for those who carry out an activity that causes disturbance to the environment. Noise regulations are included in both the Environmental Code and the Planning and Construction Act as well as in regulations, but there is no specific guidance on noise levels when the source is sports activities. Noise affects our health and our ability to achieve a good quality of life. It affects people differently depending on what type of noise or sound it is, what strength it has, what frequencies it contains and how it varies over time. Noise is an environmental disturbance that affects many people in Sweden. The responsibility for noise guidance is shared by several authorities. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has an overall responsibility for environmental noise issues, but also a responsibility to specifically guide environmental and regulatory work in relation to other authorities. According to the Environmental Code, the Public Health Authority is responsible for the guidance on health protection and has issued a guide on indoor noise in, for example, homes and schools. Boverket is responsible for noise from a plan and construction perspective and also follows up the environmental quality objective Good built environment. Madam President, I would like I have been informed that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has noted that the guidance on industrial noise is used to assess noise from other types of activities and that they have taken the initiative to review together with the other relevant authorities the possibility of developing a specific guide on noise from sports grounds. In view of this, I believe that there is currently no reason to take any further action on the part of the government.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In its reply, the Government talked a lot about how noise affects health. This is, of course, an important aspect, and noise is absolutely a problem. But what we are talking about here are the sounds of children and young people playing football. This can, of course, be disturbing for individuals, as in the case of Boovallen in Nacka, but it can hardly be compared with noise problems from industries and roads, for example. There are many aspects to health – not just noise. There are quite a few alarming reports that children and young people are becoming increasingly sedentary. We need to give them more opportunities to move around, and then football, for example, is a very good way. When the Land and Environment Court equates the sounds of children's sports with sports noise and uses that regulatory framework in its assessment of, for example, Boovallen, it risks limiting opportunities for children and young people to sport. In the Stockholm area, which includes Nacka municipality, there is a very large – and increasing – demand for playing football, not least among the youngest. It is also widely known that sport, not least football, can act as an important factor of integration in welcoming all new arrivals to our country. There are many reasons why it is important that football in Stockholm County is given the chance to develop, and this will require the construction of more football fields. These football fields risk becoming a more than twice as expensive investment for the municipalities if they also have to include in the calculation that the plans will be surrounded by noise planks. In addition, there are already 330 plans in the Stockholm area – the risk is imminent that the municipalities will have to supply the majority of them with a noise plank. Last week, Nacka was granted leave to appeal in the Land and Environment Court, but there is great concern in the sports world and in the municipalities where the court will land. The rules need to be amended in order not to jeopardise children's and young people's opportunities for sport. The government said in its reply that the government does not want to interfere in how the court judges things, but this seems to be a little different depending on what the matter is. With regard to Preem in Lysekil, there are no obstacles to interfering, but when it comes to protecting children's and young people's sports, one seems to have a different attitude. Given the consequences that it would have if the few residents around Boovallen that this is about were to get right in court, it is strange that the government is content that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has begun to look at the issue. Does the Government consider it reasonable to judge the sound of a football field as a sports noise?
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-19	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for an important question. I very much share the view that this is an incredibly important health issue for our children and young people and also for adults. All our lives we have to move far too little. Living in a big city should not mean that children should not be able to move and play sports. It is extremely important that we ensure that there are opportunities for children to take up urban planning and that it is not only cars and traffic that are given priority, but also sports grounds. I want to say that this sound level thing is, of course, something to be taken seriously. In individual cases it can be extremely disturbing and also sensitive to health. I think we can all understand what it means to live with noise. However, I would like to say that the Court has not in any way said that it equates children's voices with noise. As it is now, there is no regulatory framework, as the interpellant called it, but there is only one guide from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency regarding noise and other activities. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency itself has pointed out that there is a lack of guidance in the field of sports facilities, and they intend to develop such guidance. The Court must, of course, take into account a variety of factors in its assessments, such as how noise sets itself over time, what frequency it is and what type of sound it is and how reasonable it is to set special conditions on, for example, noise plank or to limit the activity in time, so that one may not operate at certain times of the day or have to reduce the volume from public address systems or the like. As I said, as a minister, I am not going to make assessments of what should weigh most in this case. But the principle of children being able to play sports even in big cities is extremely important. As far as Nacka and Boovallen are concerned, I can say, since I myself have lived in the area, that parents are very happy to take the car to Boovallen rather than to ride a bike, and that also creates traffic chaos. Of course, there are many parts of this that are worth looking at to really encourage the movement of children. Then Maria Stockhaus Preem mentioned in Lysekil. Then I would really like to emphasise that there is no arbitrariness in this. We have received a notification from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. In accordance with the Environmental Code, the Government is able to lift operations to the Government's table when an operation threatens the environmental objectives described in the Environmental Code, and that is exactly what the Government has done. The County Administrative Board in Västra Götaland and a number of other bodies have also raised this to the government. There is no arbitrariness in this. In this case, there is a process under way on which the government should not comment, nor does the government.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-29	Madam President, I would like Clearly, the Government considers it more important to stop Preem than to ensure that children and young people can play football. There are not only environmental objectives but also important public health goals in Sweden, where football plays a very important role. Madam President, I would like There are several aspects to possible requirements for noise plank in addition to costs. It is, in fact, the environmental aspects that the Government itself addresses. If there is no change in the rules and the municipalities are forced to build noise boards around football fields, then one solution to reduce costs could be to place the plans outside urban areas. If it is a problem at Boovallen today that parents drive their children to the football field, the problem will not be any less if you place the football fields far away. Then the parents will have to drive the children to and from training to a greater extent. As I said, this causes problems around many football fields today. It can also mean that children who do not have parents who can drive simply cannot play football. They have difficulty getting to and from training. The Swedish Football Association has taken an interest in the issue and pointed out that the consequences if the residents of Nacka get right can be severe restrictions on children's and young people's ability to play football. I wonder if Isabella Lövin thinks it is reasonable that a few residents' views on sound from a football field should have such great consequences. Unfortunately, this is not the only case; there are other cases where neighbours have complained.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-35	Madam President, I would like This interpellation debate is in danger of becoming very strange if the interpeller constantly pulls in a completely different case concerning Preem i Lysekil. As I said before, there is no arbitrariness in how the government deals with this matter, but we do so in accordance with the environmental code. As far as children's conditions are concerned, we can also take into account the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the generational goal of leaving behind us a planet and a country that is in better shape than what we were born in. If we do not cope with the climate crisis, our children and young people will face enormous challenges, so great that I believe that sports will come second. Then it is a question of how to cope with the hundreds of millions of refugees who will have to go to other countries in order to survive at all. I think we can agree that we should now talk about what we should be talking about, namely the issue of noise levels and the guidance on industrial noise and other activities. This is the responsibility of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, and it has been clearly stated that a new guide for sports fields will now be developed. I agree that there is a shortage of sports areas in big cities. These are extremely high land costs. There is also a lot of land that is spent on car traffic, parking areas and other things that the Moderates unfortunately rarely question. However, I very much agree with the need for sports areas. It is also important to have a good environment for the residents, so that you do not create environments that become impossible to live in. It is possible to impose conditions on these activities. What the conditions are, how they are to be designed or what is reasonable is exactly what I, as a minister, am not to comment on, but it will be examined by the court. Whether the costs of noise plank are reasonable in relation to the disturbances and noise levels of different sports fields must be able to assess on a case-by-case basis. I am not entirely convinced that it will have such repercussions that all types of trials will be carried out in accordance with the Court's forthcoming ruling, but I do not really want to comment on that. We will have to wait for the court's review, and I await the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's new guidance on noise from sports grounds.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-41	Madam President, I would like I mentioned Preem as a comparative example where you choose to step into a legal process, which you do not want to do in this case. Then I have to say that Isabella Lövin developed this much more than I did. In addition, she got it to be about climate policy in general, which this interpellation is not about, but about noise and noise from football fields. Madam President, I would like It would have many and major consequences for young sportsmen and women if there were to be demands for a noise board around each football field. In Stockholm alone, it is about SEK 5 billion, and at a time when the municipalities are starting to get it very difficult financially. In order to meet the demand, you will have to limit the time on football plans very much or close down activities, because you simply cannot afford to build a noise plank. In addition, there is absolutely no money to build new football fields if it means putting up noise boards around them. There is another important aspect to the noise plank, which has been imposed in Nacka, and this is the issue of security. If you put up a noise board around a football field, there will be no transparency on the football field. There will be a great risk to those who are on the football field when no one around can see what is going on there. The Government's response to the interpellation hardly makes you feel at ease in football Sweden. Most of the answer is about the negative impact of noise on health and nothing about the Government's concern about the consequences of sound from football fields being assessed as industrial noise. If the verdict goes on the neighbor's line and there is a demand for a noise board around football fields, is the government prepared to act?
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-46	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that Maria Stockhaus reads inside from her replica paper. I cannot recall that I have devoted most of this interpellation debate to talking about the negative impact of noise on our health. I have spent far more time talking about the importance of sport and movement and that there are spaces for children to practice sports on, even in big cities. It is extremely important and something to which the government attaches tremendous importance. You just have to find a balance here. I also note that Maria Stockhaus apparently believes that the government should step into a legal process. That is not the government's view.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-49	Madam President, I would like Mr Bohlin has asked me whether I want it to be built more or less in the areas currently covered by beach protection. Kjell Jansson has asked me what measures I intend to take to strengthen ownership of forest and land in Sweden, and how I intend to work more specifically to make it easier to build near-shore in Sweden. I will begin by answering the two questions about beach protection and beach construction. On 4 July this year, the Government commissioned a special investigator to review the protection of the beach. The investigator shall propose such changes as to fundamentally re-establish the protection of the shore by increasing differentiation taking into account that both the availability of lakes and beaches as well as population density and exploitation pressures vary across the country. It will be much easier to build near the beach in rural areas. The proposals will also aim at improving the conditions for housing and business activities mainly for small businesses, tourism and green industries in areas with low exploitation pressures, and at maintaining or, where necessary, strengthening shore protection to protect unbroken shorelines, universal access and the environment in highly exploited areas. Local influence will increase. The objectives of S transport protection, the protection of the environment and universal access, should not be changed, but the regulatory framework needs to be fundamentally changed by increasing differentiation in order to provide more adapted, flexible and effective protection that increases opportunities for development. It is important that the proposals made by the investigator to amend the protection of the shoreline do not impair the universal access to unbroken shorelines or the conditions of animal and plant life in coastal areas. I shall now turn to the question of ownership of forests and land. On 18 July this year, the Government commissioned a special investigator to explore the possibilities and propose measures to strengthen ownership of forests, new flexible forms of protection and compensation for forest land protection and how international biodiversity commitments can be reconciled with a growing circular bioeconomy. The purpose of the investigation is to safeguard and strengthen private ownership of forests by strengthening legal certainty for landowners and businesses and ensuring that landowners receive financial compensation for restrictions on ownership and use rights to the extent that they are entitled to. The aim is also to highlight possible conflicts of objectives and to exploit synergies between international and relevant national biodiversity commitments and a growing circular bioeconomy. The investigator will also propose how to create incentives for sustainable forestry and improve the legitimacy of the forestry and environmental policies pursued. Together, the proposals will promote a growing forest industry and sustainable forest growth with good and secured access to national biomass from Swedish forests. Madam President, I would like Ownership is constitutionally protected and not challenged by the government. Swedish forestry policy is based on two equal objectives: the environmental objective and the production target. The foundations of forestry policy are solid. A fundamental part of forestry policy is the sectoral responsibility of forestry and the freedom of forest owners under responsibility.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-61	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the environment for what may well be defined as a typical political response, that is, a long statement that was not the answer to a short, concise and precise question, namely: Is the Government's ambition that we increase construction in a beachfront location or not? We are, of course, interested in what the purpose of this reform is. The reason I asked the question is that I think there are a few different ambitions within the so-called JÖK cooperation. I believe that the Center Party wants it to be able to be built more in beachfront locations, while the Green Party wants it absolutely not to be built more in beachfront locations, because the Green Party has been the party that has had the most edged attitude on beach protection issues. I think that it has tried to squeeze two conflicts of interests into an investigation without having to take a stand on what you really want to achieve because it is so terribly difficult to agree within the JÖK cooperation. If you read the target formulations, the Committee Directives will, on the one hand, make it easier to build in coastal rural areas. On the other hand, the new shoreguard will better safeguard unbuilt coastlines. This is in many places around Sweden one and the same place. In rural areas where it will be easier to build, it will also be more difficult to build, according to the investigation. This is not connected, Madam President. Hence my question: What is the overall goal, that there should be more built in lakeside locations or less in lakeside locations on the total? I would like an answer from the Minister for the Environment.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-66	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the Environment for his answer. It was like taking out the Green Party's party program. Paragraph 26 of the January Agreement states: Ownership is a cornerstone of a democratic society and separates democratic countries from totalitarian countries where ownership is not important. Many landowners in Sweden today feel that the state via government agencies undermines and weakens ownership and in some cases also threatens landowners, which I have good examples of. I therefore asked the Government what measures she intends to take to strengthen ownership and whether the Government thinks it is okay that the Forest Board goes out to private forest owners and acts threateningly when biotope protection is to be placed on privately owned land that has been used by families for generations and is therefore so valuable and fine. I can guarantee the Minister for the Environment that the privately owned forest is much better than the forest owned by the state. In its reply, the Government mentions the freedom of forest owners under responsibility. What does the government mean by that? All privately owned forests are responsibly managed. The owner manages, unlike the state. Does the Government think it's okay for the county boards, which are the extended arm of the state, to tear up decisions from municipal building boards that have given beach protection exemption? It is to undermine municipal self-government. Paragraph 23 of the January Agreement states that it will be easier to build beachfronts in rural areas. What does the Minister for the Environment mean by that? What measures does she intend to take to make it easier to build beachfronts in rural areas? Does it also apply to the Stockholm archipelago? It is located near a big city and is a recreation area where many landowners need to build in order to get out to the islands. You can't get there without a boat and a dock. The only option is to ride a helicopter. Does the Government believe that it will be easier for companies to build new marinas and shipyards in the archipelago, which is a big industry out there today, to take care of the boats in winter and service, cook and store them? Does the Government consider it reasonable to have 300 meters of beach shelter? Then I want to hear if the Minister for the Environment has found any beach in Sweden that is 300 meters and where this is located. At least I've never seen anyone. In my opinion, 300 metres of beach protection is a mere annexation of private land, which is being killed from the wrong point of view. If you are going to stop building on land, it is not 300 meters that the beaches are, but you should have another provision to stop construction. I have never seen beaches that are more than five to ten meters deep, and I was born in the archipelago and have lived there my whole life.
i-DaNmierTKsWjLE7ZpxDT1g	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell Jansson and Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, for important an interpellation you! If you choose to interpret the commission positively, it is gratifying that the Green Party has changed its view on the issue of beach protection. It is gratifying that the Green Party wants to see construction in beachfront locations. It is gratifying that the Green Party wants to help develop our local communities, unlike before, when the Green Party, as everyone knows, has often been a powerful brake block for construction and economic growth in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I was in Hudiksvall recently and met the moderate politician responsible for construction. We had a long talk, and he was deeply concerned about the intrusion that he perceives it is when the state, via the county administrative board, appeals to the building permits that the municipality grants. This is a serious intrusion into municipal self-government, says Hudiksvall. He and the entire municipal leadership in Hudiksvall, which consists of the Environmental Party, the Social Democrats and the Moderates, know that the investigation is under way. I would like a little clarification, namely: does the Government and the Government want this? Is the entry values that the Minister for Environment and Climate Change wants more to be built on water, as I choose to interpret it? Then that's a good thing. Is it so that the Government is passionate about really ensuring that we get a proper development of the municipalities, not least in Gävleborg? There are examples in smaller municipalities, such as Bollnäs, where one saw an opportunity to build an amazingly nice residential area. The local politicians wanted it, the developer wanted it and people wanted to live by water. The matter went all the way to the government, which approved the appeal, i.e. it was not allowed to build there. Gävleborg and many other counties have very many nice locations where it is possible to live by water. It is a fantastic opportunity, if the trains go on time a little more often. Then more people can move to Gävleborg and work commute to Mälardalen, for example, and have a fantastic opportunity to live close to water and build nicely at a much lower price than in Stockholm, for example. Then it is important that the new legislation, if that is how the government has planned, should be put in place as soon as possible. I think it is desirable to ask the Minister: do you want it to be built more on water? Is that what the government wants? Is that the entry values from the Environmental Party in the investigation? If you want to do so, when will Hudiksvall and other municipalities in Gävleborg be able to ensure that it actually starts to be built? That you have made an agreement in the JÖK that an investigation should be made, we know. We also know that you have agreed when the investigation will be completed. However, it would be interesting to know when the legislation will be in place so that we can facilitate housing construction in Gävleborg and elsewhere in Sweden.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-82	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. We have over 38,000 miles of coastline and beaches in this country. This corresponds to about 10 laps around the world in the shoreline. We have a shelter of almost 300 meters in some places when it comes to beach protection, i.e. if you are going to build beachside in Sweden, if you have not managed to break this with plans and other things, you do not see the lake, but you live somewhere far up in the forest and can possibly see the lake at 300 meters. Finland is a country with lots of lakes. More and more, they have handed over the responsibility for determining what the beach protection should be like to their municipalities. In Sweden, we first have the municipalities, which prepare their plans for how they want to develop their municipalities. They take this in the democratic spirit of the council around the country, and then hand it over to the county boards for assessment. In most cases, there is a refusal from the county administrative boards. In Finland, there is much greater confidence that municipalities can take care of beach protection. In Sweden we believe that the state should do this in the best way. The municipalities are doing a lot of work to investigate and come up with this. They ensure that areas are protected so that outdoor activities and other things can be taken care of, that the beach line exists and that it is possible to walk along it, and then the county administrative board says no. We know, Madam President, that we have a broad majority here in Parliament in order to reform beach protection properly in order to fully develop rural areas. In fact, it is often precisely this issue that people in rural areas raise when you visit them and discuss what they want out there. They say it is a reformed and simplified beach shelter so that they can take advantage of the opportunities they have to build close to the coast and in good locations, which means that the houses can retain a value that makes it possible to build on the countryside. This is important. Madam President, I would like Now the government has had two years to look over this thing before it comes forward with a bill. Then there should possibly be a decision that will enter into force on 1 January 2022, i.e. almost the entire term of office is lost due to the fact that you are sitting in investigations and reviewing. At the same time, rural areas need to have these efforts now. We need to start construction in the country. We are facing a possible recession, which may get deeper. We must seize the opportunities we have. Then the government still sits and investigates what to do. This is one thing you could put forward in the fast track, isn't it? Madam President, I would like I have followed the debate, and if I am properly informed, the Center would also like to look at whether or not we should keep the county boards in the process. Then my question is to the Minister, in this case: does the Minister think that the state or municipalities should decide who is to get beach protection? If the Minister still wants the state and county boards to keep this, why does the government not trust the municipalities of Sweden, as they manage to do in Finland?
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-89	Madam President, I would like Thank you, large parts of the Moderate Coalition Party, who have entered this debate! I see that there is a great deal of interest, and that is gratifying. The government and parties in the January agreement – for the protocol is the JÖK:en January agreement, which the government has concluded together with the Centers and Liberals and on which we agree – has decided to set up two major investigations to highlight issues related to beach protection and forest ownership. The Alliance government went forward with a reform of beach protection in 2009. I can only regret that the Members of the Moderates are not satisfied with the reform that they themselves backed up and that has not given one more full result for the purposes that the Moderates and the Alliance Government thought one should have, namely, to make beach protection more flexible. In 2014, this government came forward with a clarification of the protection of the shores of smaller lakes and watercourses. Let's take the next step. We see that we have a huge need to protect our plant and animal life. We know from the UN Panel on Biological Diversity that our ecosystems are under threat and that we need to ensure that we live up to international commitments that we have signed and that the rest of the world has signed up to. But we also see another reality, namely that there is a great difference in our country between city and country, and that we see a problem with more and more people continuing to move from the beautiful countryside to the big cities. A certain degree of flexibility in the area of beach protection could make our rural areas more attractive so that they actually have an opportunity to develop. We agree on that, Lars Beckman. There's no discord on that. However, we are very clear about other things. Mr Bohlin asked why we should protect certain coastlines further. Then you finally have to read the sentence. These are highly exploited areas. We have a situation in large areas where birds cannot breed, where fish cannot play and where we have very endangered marine ecosystems. There we need to look at whether the shoreguard needs to be strengthened and, not least, look at the accessibility of the public to the shorelines. It is a very fine principle that we have in Sweden and which also makes Sweden extremely attractive as a visiting country for foreign visitors. But the tourism industry is perhaps also the largest economic sector in rural areas in terms of money. It is therefore important that we also ensure that there is accessibility for outdoor activities. 1.6 million people are members of various outdoor movements. There is therefore a need to strike a balance so that we ensure that there is continued availability. Many questions have been asked, and it has been difficult to note everyone. Among other things, there was talk of commuting the beach shelter. I think it is important to have a long-term perspective on nature conservation issues. If different municipalities have different rules, it can be extremely smudged when it comes to rules.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-95	Madam President, I would like Many questions have been asked to the Government, and I fully understand that she may not have been able to take notes and answer them all. But the problem is that the Government did not even answer the question that my interpellation concerned and that I began my first speech by asking. In addition, this question was then repeated by Lars Beckman. The question was: Does the government on total want to increase construction in beachfront locations or not? It would be very clear if we could have an answer to this question. What all of us who care about this issue are interested in is the conflict of objectives, that is to say the protection of contiguous coastlines that are not currently built against increasing opportunities to build in rural areas. It is in the countryside that the unspoilt coastlines exist. Madam President, I would like Here you will see what is really the problem: The Green Party does not want it to be given the opportunity to build more. If you read in the committee directives, it says: Untouched coastlines are rare. Up to 13 percent of the country's total inland lakes and coastlines, there are buildings within 100 metres. This means that there is no settlement at all at the majority of all coastlines in Sweden. These coastlines want to give the government greater protection with this investigation. That's what gets so wrong and so wrong. In my county of Dalarna, for example, we have half a kilometre of beach each, the result per household. Not all of Dalarna's inhabitants live on a coastal stretch, but live in cities. This means that it is perhaps only one per mil of our population that actually lives lake-honoured. Thus, the vast majority of the coastlines in my home country are unbuilt today and are located in rural areas. If you read this committee directive as it is written, it is clear that these coastlines are to be more protected because they are today unbuilt and unbroken. We want answers from the Minister for the Environment: which of these two adversarial objectives is the one that is going to trump the other? What is the objective? It is this conflict of objectives that the government refuses to resolve, and it is this conflict of objectives that today puts a wet blanket over the possibility of rural development. This is now being attempted because the government does not agree on what is really important. Madam President, I would like If I may appeal to the Government to answer only one question, it is: Does the Government want construction in lakeside locations to increase based on today's level?
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-103	Madam President, I would like I have every respect that the Minister for the Environment cannot answer all the questions at once. But I'll put them again, so that she can take note of them in peace of mind. The first question was: what measures does the Minister of the Environment intend to take to strengthen ownership? We have not received such a signal at all. It gets worse and worse, and everyone else except the owner of the land, who is supposed to manage it, is entitled to it. The second question was: Does the Government think it's okay that the Forest Board comes out to private forest owners and is threatening and wants to put biotop protection on land that has been cultivated in generations of families that own the forest? Does the Minister of the Environment think that this attitude of government is okay? In its reply, the Government speaks of the freedom of forest owners under responsibility. What does this mean? Do you suspect forest owners and say that they do not manage their land, or what is it about? Next question: What measures does the Government intend to take in order to make it easier to build beachfronts in rural areas? And does it also apply to the Stockholm archipelago? This is my question, which is quite crucial. Does the Government believe that it will be easier for companies to build marinas and shipyards in the archipelago – which is a major industry in the archipelago – if you now want a living archipelago, which is often talked about in all political assemblies? And does the Government consider it reasonable to have 300 meters of beach shelter? Madam President, I would like On 18 July, the Government set up an investigation into the strengthening of property rights. What are the criteria on which it is based? This is not clear from the Environment Minister's reply. In June 2019, the House decided to approve a motion by me and Maria Stockhaus, which was discussed in the Constitutional Committee's report 2018/ 19:KU27, that the government should set up a parliamentary committee to review and strengthen constitutional property protection and announce this to the government. My question to the Government is: When will this parliamentary committee be appointed by the government? We haven't seen anyone yet. The Minister for the Environment mentioned that the Government of Reinfeldt gave a mission in 2009 to reduce the protection of the beach and ease this. But the consequence was almost the opposite in most municipalities. Two municipalities in Stockholm County received a beach shelter of 300 meters everywhere. In my municipality, Norrtälje Municipality, where I was Chairman of the Municipal Board, we held back. We got almost everywhere that it would be a beach shelter of 300 meters. But we still have a little bit left. It was a great wrestling match between leading politicians and county officials who had a completely different purpose from the government mission. It was Boverket and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that would fix this, but it did not succeed. They made it even worse for people to build, and they strengthened the beach shelters, and they expanded it to 300 meters. I still have no answer to the question as to whether the Minister for the Environment has seen a beach of 300 metres.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-114	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Nevertheless, I heard a hint in the speech by the Minister for the Environment – I even think I was apostrophated – and that was the Government's desire for some flexibility. The government wants some flexibility in the beach shelter. Then you still have to ask yourself: Does this mean that those municipal politicians in Gävleborg who have incredibly good land to build on, who have growth opportunities in their municipality and who have residents who want to build will be able to do so? Is it the case that the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action and the Deputy Prime Minister are really passionate about rural development? Is she burning to build it on water? I did not watch it exactly, but about 80% of the time, the Minister for the Environment and Climate Action talked about the values to be protected, that is, access to the beaches and access to the water. It is quite natural if you are an environmental party, and that is an indication of how the Green Party views these issues. The concrete answer I heard was that there should be some flexibility. I do not think that the local politicians in Hudiksvall, Gävle, Söderhamn, Bollnäs, Ljusdal and Nordanstig expect there to be some flexibility, but I think they actually expect them to be able to develop their municipalities and their accommodations. It is about creating growth in these municipalities, which have an incredibly good competitive advantage. In addition, if the trains were to go on time so that people could commute to work, you could live very well and nicely by the water, at a good price, if the government made sure that this investigation was in place.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-119	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to give a good advice to the Minister: Study how Finland has worked on this issue! They have many lakes in Finland, and they know these questions. That's where the investigation should be right before we land. Then, in fact, I received a relatively clear answer from the Minister, namely that these questions are to be left on the county boards. It can only be said that the Centre Party, on the other hand, wants to abolish the general protection of the beach and replace it with a municipal responsibility. One could say that the Center has lost the negotiations even before the investigation has begun. So what the Center wants is overplayed even before the investigation has even started and got steering speed. My call to all the centre voters around the country is therefore: if you want the beach protection really to have a nuance and for us to have a greater municipalisation of the responsibility for beach protection – call up your MPs and the people in the top management of the Center and tell them that the investigation actually needs to be supplemented by the mission to review the liability issue and who should have it! I also note that the Minister is talking about some flexibility. I would like to remind the Minister that there is acceptance of much greater flexibility in this House. It will therefore be interesting on the day the bill is on the table unless the House is prepared to actually adjust it in the respects that the investigation has failed to achieve. Otherwise, Madam President, I would like to say once again: contact Finland and look at how they have solved this. In this way, we can speed up the investigation and be completed considerably faster than in two years' time.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-124	Madam President, I would like With regard to the measures the Moderates are so keen to see, I would like to say once again that it is strange that they did not succeed with them in 2009. The fact that the failure of this reform is then blamed on our authorities is, in my opinion, less attractive; I think we need better hands-on action than that when it comes to making laws. If you say that this has the opposite effect to what you were going to do, then just regret it. Does the government want to increase construction in beachfront locations or not? That's what Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin asks. I think it is very clear in the investigation directive that we are saying that it will be easier to build beachfronts in rural areas but that, if there is a need, we should look at whether we need to strengthen universal access and beach protection in highly exploited areas. That is exactly what the directive and the January agreement say: if there is a need to strengthen the protection of shores in order to protect unbroken shorelines and the environment in highly exploited areas. It is therefore quite clear: we believe that it should be easier to build in rural areas, but that there is indeed a need to analyse whether there is a need to strengthen protection in densely populated and highly exploited areas. That's what we're investigating. The investigator should be allowed to make suggestions, and I do not want to precede those proposals. Kjell Jansson then asks what measures we should take to strengthen ownership. We have set up an investigation, and it will look at the issue of mountain forest and biotopinventory. We also intend to set up an investigation into the species protection regulation and the right to compensation in cases where endangered species are found. We invest SEK 200 million in the budget to provide compensation to forest owners in areas where nature is protected. I can point out that the Moderates cut their budget by SEK 740 million, with immediate consequences for forest owners who did not receive their compensation. I can really question how it rhymes with the fact that forest owners should be entitled to compensation; in that case, we must also be prepared to set aside funds in the budget to provide compensation to forest owners. This government does, and I note that M and KD have not done so in their budget. The next question I will skip, because it was about some sort of loose accusation, which I do not know about, that you are acting threateningly. Of course you shouldn't. As far as freedom under responsibility is concerned, it is in fact the case that forest owners themselves also want to have a responsibility for the voluntary removal of areas and the taking of inventories themselves. This is also something that the investigator should look at. To make things easier in the Stockholm archipelago is something the investigator can look at; it is nothing the government has defined, nor marinas or 300 meters. I know enough about marine biology and ecology to know that large coastal ecosystems may need to be taken into account. We will not change the Constitution. It is not included in this directive. As far as flexibility is concerned, this is stated in the directive, Lars Beckman. I don't have to stand here and tell you if I'm on fire or not. In the directive, it is very clear that we should review and make it easier to build in rural areas.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-134	Madam President, I would like I ask the question to which I have not been answered for the fourth time: what is the purpose of the reform? Is the purpose that it should be possible to build more in lakeside locations, or less? I still have not received an answer to that question. I understand why I do not get an answer to this question. That's because the Green Party doesn't want to show the cards. The environmental party is a party that, in each individual situation, fights for more of beach protection, while at the same time concluding an agreement with a party that wants less of beach protection. This has been attempted in a committee directive and buried in an investigation. There are two contradictory objectives. Isabella Lövin comes back to the fact that it would be about protecting exploited areas, but the long, untouched coastlines, as stated in the committee directive, should have special protection status, may not be found in the Stockholm archipelago, but in the parts of Sweden where there are very few people, that is, in the countryside. If you on the one hand want to make it easier to build in the countryside but on the other hand say that it will be more difficult to build where there are long, untouched coastlines, the equation becomes very difficult to get together. Isabella Lövin has still not answered if the goal is to increase the possibilities for construction in near-shore locations or not. Is that the purpose of the reform? We want to know.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-137	Madam President, I would like Minister for the Environment Isabella Lövin! I have received some answers but not enough. I note that the decision taken by this House in June 2019 on the parliamentary committee to strengthen property rights, which was proposed by the Constitutional Committee, is therefore not to be enforced. Are you going to fail to do that? I will not let go of that question, I can say that, and if I do not get an answer today, I will come back. The answers confirm what we suspected, namely that these investigations are a bit mambojumbo to hold the parties together now that there is no majority in this House. Then you've taken the support of the Center Party and the Liberals, and then you fine them off with an investigation. Then my question to the Minister for the Environment is: When you do an investigation, there are directives on what to do and what to do and what to do – otherwise you don't order an investigation. What were the directives in the investigation on property rights and in the investigation on beach protection? It hasn't come to light. The Minister for the Environment refers to the fact that the investigation may prove it. I would also like to hear whether the Minister for the Environment thinks that it is a legally sound procedure when the County Administrative Board goes in and over-examines the municipalities' beach protection rights and individual administrators at the County Administrative Board are reviewing building boards where you have local roots with people who know their area and make assessments. The reason why we cut back on environmental subsidies was that we wanted fewer infringements by forest owners with biotope protection areas and that this activity should therefore be reduced. That is why we cut the budget by about 700 million. It wasn't that the landowner would be paid less, but that you would end up with these pheasants.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-142	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Bohlin, for repeating the same question three or four times, including in writing. I think I have given a very clear answer. One cannot ask such a crudely simplified question as it is to say: More or less? Today we see that we have very diverse landscapes and conditions throughout our elongated country. These are very different conditions, and what we want to do with these directives and this investigation is to make it more attractive and more flexible so that it will be possible for businesses and people to develop in rural areas. Then there are the conditions for looking at how best to live up to the international and national commitments we have to protect our nature. I don't think we should reduce that part of this. The UN Panel on Biological Diversity issued an alarm report last spring stating that we are facing the sixth mass extinction and that 1 million species are at risk of extinction. We need to be able to protect our species. With the Swedish beach protection, which we have had since 1975, we have unique beach environments and ecosystems. We also need to take care of this with some caution. The parliamentary committee that Kjell Jansson is asking about is not on the table of the Minister for the Environment and Climate Change, but on the table of the Minister for Justice, so I can refer you to the Minister for Justice on this matter. As far as the precise wording of the directives is concerned, it is a very comprehensive directive, and I would therefore call on the honourable Member and also the public concerned to read them. They are available and very comprehensive, so I cannot account for everyone here and now.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-147	Madam President, I would like David Josefsson has asked me what concrete proposals I intend to implement in the near future to simplify entrepreneurship and when these will start to work. The Government believes that brokerage is a key element of enterprise policy and that it contributes to the goal of strengthening the competitiveness of companies and creating the conditions for more jobs in more and growing companies. It is essential that the regulatory framework is appropriate and proportionate and that it is applied as easily as possible. Some rules constitute important market rules. It is important that rules are drawn up in an appropriate and pro-rata way in order to limit administrative costs. Treatment and short processing times are also central to a competitive business environment. I am now undertaking, in cooperation with various business organisations, a simplification journey with the aim of taking in the views and proposals of companies. I see the dialogue with companies on what simplifications would be most important to implement as very valuable. Discussions have taken place during the meetings on how different rules are designed and how they could be changed. The application of the rules by the authorities in relation to, for example, treatment, transparency and information has also been addressed during these meetings. I see the views and proposals that businesses have so far made as constructive and concrete on simplification. My impression is that companies appreciate the opportunity offered by the simplification journey to discuss what should be done on the basis of their experience. The business trip will continue in the autumn with a few additional meetings planned. After compiling and analysing the company's views, we hope to get a clearer picture of the simplifications that are most urgent and feasible.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-153	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We meet them everywhere – from the pizzeria around the corner and the craftsman standing up in wet and dry to the garage company hoping to be our next Skype or Spotify. Small entrepreneurs are the kitt of the Swedish economy. Some are entrepreneurs because they seek the sense of freedom. Others have visions and want to see their companies grow and become global. Some are entrepreneurs for the simple reason that they did not get a job and had to create it themselves. Today there are about 1.2 million companies in Sweden. More than 96 per cent of them are small enterprises with fewer than ten employees. When you're out talking to entrepreneurs, they almost always mention bureaucracy and regulatory issues as obstacles to further development. According to the Swedish Agency for Growth, companies' annual administrative costs have on average increased by SEK 1.2 billion per year since 2013 as a result of regulatory changes, and the regulatory changes apply to widely differing areas and affect different types of companies. According to an opinion poll conducted by Skop from the Swedish Business Council and published in April this year, 37 per cent of the country's entrepreneurs feel that the rules have become more complicated in the past year. 37 percent from one year to another – there are more than in any previous survey. Only 3% believe it has become simpler than a year ago. Three percent! Madam President, I would like The regulatory problem is something that the government also says it is a priority. The third item of the January Agreement already has the title, which is "Better conditions for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs". But the question is: What steps does the government want to take to reduce the regulatory burden? The Government itself is now out on what he calls a simplification journey in Sweden to talk about regulatory issues with companies. It is a commendable initiative. But the problems are not unknown. There is therefore no excuse for not already starting to work concretely to change the trend from more regulatory to less. In order for the Government's simplification journey not to be just a pr-tour there should at least be a timetable for when concrete proposals for regulatory simplification could come? Madam President, I would like My question to the Government therefore remains. What does the government intend to do in the near future to concretely reduce the regulatory burden for companies?
i-8gQ4DpimvXbLacegB654pZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, David Josefsson, for the questions and the point of view. Yes, it's important. I think that we are basically quite in agreement that it is important to have rules that lead to order and order. This applies both to a society and to companies. No one should use corruption or other means to gain advantage from the service or product they produce or the business idea they have. This is one of the things that makes Sweden appear in almost all international measurements as a country that has a strong business climate. I think everyone in this House likes that. The challenge is how to ensure that it does not become unnecessarily bureaucratic or administratively burdensome. That is the background to my lifting it up as a priority. It's about a lot of different things. Sometimes it's about the rules themselves. Sometimes it is about EU rules and sometimes national rules. And sometimes it's about municipal regulations. At least as important is the application of the rules. This has also been evident in the meetings I have had with entrepreneurs in several parts of the country. How does an authority do it? With what attitude does a government meet citizens and businesses? David Josefsson wonders when concrete measures will come. Concrete measures already exist and are being taken today. Let me take an example! Digitisation is something we're all talking about. It has come different ways in different parts of our society. Digitisation of government services and activities is currently taking place at different levels in all our agencies, albeit not at a sufficiently high speed, I would say. It is an example where you can simplify quite a lot. A good example has come up at every meeting I have had so far with entrepreneurs, whether it has been in the Stockholm area or for that matter in Central Sweden or as yesterday when I met entrepreneurs in Umeå. It is the Swedish Tax Agency that comes up as a clear example of an authority that has both tried to work to increase accessibility and has made it easier. I am also pleased that many entrepreneurs testify that when they have filled out something wrong, the authority will hear from them and say: This is what you could do. ..................................................... It should also be said that during the meetings, examples of less simple, serviceable, and willing authorities come up. Both good and less good examples we are now gathering, to continue pushing to make it simple and transparent. I understand that the vast majority of serious entrepreneurs want to do the right thing and make it as simple as possible. For the smallest, it is also a matter, as David Josefsson says, of not having the administrative muscles to deal with complicated rules. They want to engage in their activities. We will continue. It will be about rules and whether we can simplify them. But it will be at least as much about the application of these rules. Is it as simple as it could be? It is about increased accessibility but also about the attitude of the authorities towards the companies they work with. Some have been done, as I said, and we will continue to work. My ambition is to increase the pace of work next year so that we realise the full potential of Sweden's business community. I am very pleased that there is a vibrant business sector in much of our country. Then it is our duty to make it as simple as possible, at the same time as it is orderly.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-169	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Government itself quite clearly illustrates that the problems are not unknown. We talk about implementation and application of rules, we talk about attitudes and we talk about discussion. It is, of course, about both EU and national rules and how municipal rules are interpreted. The Government itself highlights the Swedish Tax Agency as a positive example. What gnaws a little bit in me is that the problems are known, and the companies give a fairly coherent picture of what needs to be done. Just as the Government is concerned, it is clear that the rules are not bad. They exist for a reason. They create a playing field and a security. The problem is reflected in the Swedish Agency for Growth's figures on how the administrative burden increases and on the attitude of companies to the increased burden. Each rule may not be a big problem, but together they create a difficult problem as they create a lot. Time and resources thus go to administration rather than to deliver good goods and services and to what makes businesses grow and contribute to society with work and tax revenues. One cannot simply remove a number of rules to reduce the regulatory burden and then be satisfied. Then new rules will continue to come into being. Just as the Government is concerned, it is about changing working methods and thinking patterns and creating awareness among decision-makers. The Government itself seems to lack inspiration; he talks, for example, about the application of EU rules, digitalisation and so on. That is why I have four concrete proposals which I think the Government should take on board in its work. The first concrete measure would be to do as many successful municipalities: to enhance the dialogue between authorities and businesses. One should simply be responsible for ensuring that all authorities get a better understanding of the entrepreneur's perspective and thus prevent unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles, actually doing what the Tax Agency does. Another concrete measure could be to implement the tax reform promised in the JÖK but which has not yet taken any steps towards implementation. Many entrepreneurs demand simple tax rules and lower taxes. Another concrete measure concerns the application of EU rules. One could strengthen the functioning of the Swedish Agency for Growth Council to also review and advise on the implementation of European law in Sweden, according to the Danish model. In this way, I believe that it could be turned around so that the application of EU rules, rather than being a source of increased regulatory uncertainty, can become a source of regulatory simplification. The fourth measure, as I said, is to increase digitalisation. We are active.se. That's a good start. But if you look internationally, you can see that it is only scratching the surface when it comes to gathering government contacts in one place and at the same time demanding information only once. The Minister's words on the issue of rules are good, and the initiative is commendable. But at the moment concrete measures from the government are shining with their absence.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-179	Madam President, I would like I and David Josefsson probably share the view that it is important to have a fairly close dialogue with those most affected. This applies, among other things, to companies, and that is exactly what I have. I meet not only business organisations here in Stockholm – they are involved in organizing the meetings that I currently have – but also companies of different sizes in the country. Yesterday I met the sole entrepreneur who makes chocolate in a basement, a large forest owner and a large property owner. These companies have slightly different perspectives and face different challenges. It is important to continuously catch up. It's not the way to do one thing, and then it's done. I think David Josefsson knows that. Reality changes. Both the challenges and the opportunities are developing. I think we fully agree that digitalisation holds many hopes. It's really just getting started. Even if you can sometimes feel that digitalisation is everywhere, that technology is also under development. Just take the examples that we now see more and more of: for example, municipalities use simpler forms of AI to handle routine operations. It could also be used by government authorities much more. In some municipalities we have even seen it in the exercise of authority. We are only at the beginning of that process. Think also of the availability around the clock that digitalization provides. In the old type of activity there was no such possibility at all. We are therefore looking at rules but at least as much at the application of these rules, at how the authorities deal with businesses and citizens and, not least, at what it looks like over the country. Another thing that many companies, I think, experience as a problem is that it may differ very much depending on which county you operate. This is particularly true of companies that exist throughout our country. We can't have it like this, because then it won't be predictable. At these meetings, many companies also say that it is not really about the rules themselves, because they understand why there is. Instead, it is a question of having a predictable process, such as a test for environmental reasons. Such a process should be predictable and not change from time to time without actually changing the law and regulation. It's just practice that's changed over time. I believe that these are a number of points that are important to catch up on as we continue this work. As I pointed out earlier, work has been going on under both the previous and the current government. My ambition is to accelerate this work so that Sweden can have an even better business environment. Although we are already strong here today, we must not settle down. Madam President, I would like I would like to make one point. On and off in this Chamber and in the general discussion the Swedish Agency for Growth's figures on regulatory issues are being highlighted as an expression of an increased regulatory burden. That, of course, is the case. It's part of it. However, one should also be aware that this figure not only captures an added hassle with rules. It may also be that rules have been removed or rules changed to the benefit of companies. The change in itself may generate a certain cost, which also falls under the heading "Increasing the regulatory burden". That is not true, however, because if one rule is removed, it will still improve the situation for entrepreneurs in the long term. But just when you implement it, it can of course add a cost.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-187	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I was probably a little confused at the end when the Government made an attempt to explain how his regulatory simplifications create additional costs for the companies. If so, it may not be the best regulatory simplifications. In any case, I believe that the Government and I are quite in agreement on the problem picture in the debate, that is to say that the regulatory problem is a major problem, especially for small businesses. Whether it's about the pizza around the corner or the start-up company that will be our new Spotify, Skype or Volvo. We also agree that the rules have not come about out of evil and that every single rule in itself is not a problem. The problem is that we are constantly building on new rules. There is therefore no quick fix; it is about changing culture. To me, this is nothing new. It sounds a bit like the government has been out meeting companies and suddenly there has been a light that this is a problem. Of course, it is good to have been aware of this, but in my world it looks rather like this: We agree on the problem picture. It also sounds like we are almost in agreement even on the solutions. But looking at the government's bill list at the same time, one sees only one simplification this autumn. It is about reducing share capital from 50 000 to 25 000. It is a great proposal, which the Moderates have also been pushing, but it does not make it easier for existing companies. It would have been good if the Government had also backed up its views with concrete measures, or at least had a timetable for the coming of the measures. That is one thing to say, Madam President, and another thing to do. I had hoped to do a little more than that from the government. I would also like to thank you for a good debate.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-192	Madam President, I would like I think we're basically fairly in agreement. Sometimes in this House we have the ability to pull out the small differences that exist so that they look like the Grand Canyon, and in most cases that is not the case. There are not so many differences in matters such as these. We agree that it should be orderly because it is an important part of our business environment. It is also important to ensure that there is no unnecessary administrative and bureaucratic burden on businesses. Of course, many of these comments are not new, but, as I said earlier, I do not think you should settle down and believe that you have done everything. Although work is ongoing, new challenges arise. I am a little surprised, Madam President. David Josefsson does not seem to be quite aware of the figures he uses. The figures from the Swedish Agency for Growth to which he refers are those that capture that there have been added rules or hassles, as it is called, but there may also be costs that have been incurred precisely because a regulation has been removed or changed to the benefit of companies. This means a change that adds a cost at the time, but that doesn't mean that the regulatory burden increases all the time. That's how the numbers come up. It would probably be good for David Josefsson to read or contact the Swedish Agency for Growth so that he can get this straight. We will continue with this work. I think we now have a golden opportunity. There are good examples, but also less good examples. My ambition is, of course, that after the journey that I am now making to meet entrepreneurs, we can summarize everything into a programme that means that we can continue our work to improve the business climate in Sweden to the benefit of jobs and growth throughout the country.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-197	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me why the government has not found a buyer for the state-owned company Metria AB, what my and the government's assessment of the profitability and performance targets for 2019 regarding Metria is, what measures me and the government have taken since the Riksdag's decision on 20 June 2017 to sell Metria, how I assess that Metria can develop with an active and skilled owner who has the corresponding business as a core business, what financial risks exist for the state to remain as owner of Metria pending sale, and when I consider that the sale may be carried out in accordance with the Riksdag decision of 2017. As Lars Beckman has quite rightly noted, Metria AB has in recent years had a declining profitability development. I share the Board's assessment that the company will not reach the targets set by the owner for 2019. I have also stated in the past in reply to two written questions, both put by Lars Beckman, that there is currently no sales process and that there is no plan for the resumption of the sales process. First when the Government assesses that there are conditions for a successful divestment of the state's shares in Metria AB, a sales process will be initiated. For the State as an active and professional owner, it is included to examine the reasons for continued state ownership. The Government has the task of actively managing companies with state ownership so that the long-term value development will be the best possible. How the company would develop in the case of a sale by another owner is a hypothetical question. As long as the state remains the owner of the shares in Metria AB, the government will continue to be an active and professional owner of the company.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-201	Madam President, I would like One could ask the rhetorical question: What does the Minister of Economic Affairs want? Yes, Madam President, it is clearly not selling state-owned companies. In this sense, it may be an ideological question. What do you want the government to do? Perhaps set clear rules of the game or have a predictable regulatory framework? I listened to a previous interpellation debate here on regulatory issues. It could possibly have been about unfair competition too. Is it reasonable that the state will be the largest media owner in Sweden? Is it reasonable for the State to run a company that rents out bajamajas, as a state company does? Is it reasonable for the government to own Metria? A very careful analysis was carried out in which it was concluded that Metria was not judged to have better development opportunities with the state as its owner. Instead, the investigation concluded that Metria was likely to develop better with private owners. The Minister for Enterprise and Industry now goes around with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Entrepreneurs and other business organisations and meets different entrepreneurs, and that's good. I think it's good when we elected representatives meet entrepreneurs. But in any case I have never met an entrepreneur who said that the state or for that matter a municipality or region would neither better owners than the private business community. I often face the opposite, i.e. that business and the free market are better owners. Many consulting companies in the industry where Metria operates have had a fantastic development in recent years, not least because of a strong boom. Unfortunately, however, Metria has not had, but the company is losing turnover, as the Government has noted. One explanation that is stated in their quarterly report is: a reduction in revenue from one of our largest customers due to the fact that they have received significantly reduced funding. This shows that the business risk is very high in the company. Looking at the prospects for the next few years, one might suspect that we are entering a recession. For example, we can look at my municipality of residence in Gävle. They have released their budget for next year. It states that the construction in Gävle will collapse. Metria performs many assignments for small and medium-sized municipalities. If construction collapses, it may be suspected that even Metria will be worse off. I think this is a little unfortunate. I have asked the Minister for Economic Affairs a number of questions about Metria. This is an ideological question in the sense that, unlike the Minister for Economic Affairs, I am absolutely convinced that the private owners could take care of and develop the company much better, which would of course benefit the employees of the company and for the benefit of the market. Now the government says there is no plan. The government is following developments. But I would still like to know: Does the Minister of Economic Affairs want to sell Metria? Is it the government's view that Metria should be sold?
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-209	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Beckman for the many questions. As far as the type of activity carried out by Metria, for example, is concerned, unlike Lars Beckman, I can clearly say that this is not an ideological issue. As Minister of Economic Affairs with responsibility for the government's corporate portfolio and as Minister of State in the government, I feel a great responsibility for managing our common assets, the assets of the Swedish people, in a responsible and good way. Under this government, there will never be an ideological urge to sell only for the sake of selling, as has happened on other occasions – sometimes local, sometimes regional, sometimes even national. As Lars Beckman has now expressed, this is an ideological position, and it does not protect taxpayers' assets or money. As has been said earlier, with regard to Metria, which is the subject of this debate, there is a desire to divest. This has not changed. But there must also be good conditions, so that both the operations and the assets of the Swedish people are handled responsibly. We have that obligation as our responsibility. Lars Beckman rightly points out that this is a business that currently has negative results and that this is mainly due to the fact that a large customer has reduced demand due to reduced funding. The large customer is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The lower funding was given in the budget decided by Parliament last winter and voted by Lars Beckman, the other Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats in this House. The fact that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has less resources because of that budget will of course also affect Metria as a major supplier. One could say that there is a red thread– I was about to say – a blue thread directly from Lars Beckman and his party's actions to make this business go slightly worse. Nevertheless, I have good hopes that the company's board and management will try to reverse this. Should there be a situation where there is a serious player who is prepared to bid on Metria, we will of course deal with this in the best and most serious way. As I said, ownership in Metria is not a question of ideology; it is a question of managing taxpayers' assets in the best and most serious way. The company should of course have a serious owner and a long-term good development.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-214	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that the state budget should not be about keeping state companies under arms. Let me be clear on this point. Yes, for me this is an ideological issue in the sense that the role of the state in a market economy is to set up and review the regulatory framework, not to carry out entrepreneurship. I do not know if the Minister of Economic Affairs has ever met any entrepreneur who has been of a different opinion, someone who said: We think it's good when the state competes with us companies. At least I haven't. But it is possible that the Minister of Economic Affairs is associated in other circles. In this way it will be easier to understand the Government's interpellation responses. I read in front of it how the company would develop at the time of a sale with another owner is a hypothetical question. Yes, of course it is. But you can compare with other consulting companies during the amazing boom that we have had. Metria has not achieved its economic goals for several years, but the private companies in the consulting market have gone very well. So there are comparison objects. Would Metria develop better in a family of consulting groups? Yes, most likely so. That is also why the Riksdag has given this authorisation to the Government. I am pleased that the Minister for Economic Affairs is saying that the government wants to sell the company. Then, of course, the question is at what time. If you sell a government or public activity, it shall be at market prices. That's where we're in complete agreement. Of course, taxpayers should not give a single crown of subsidies to those who buy something from the public. But it is also important to reduce the business risk. According to the leaders, Gävle will reduce its housing by 80 per cent, and it may be suspected that more municipalities will end up in a similar situation. If we move towards a recession, it will of course affect a company like Metria. That would reduce the business risk for taxpayers if they sold the company. It may have been that there was an unrealistic price picture when you published the prospectus for Metria-- what do I know? If I have understood correctly, quite a few people took in the prospectus at Metria when the company was out for sale, but then the sale was withdrawn. I am pleased that we agree that Metria would benefit from being sold. But I think it would be better if the government had a clear plan for that. We are monitoring the issue, not least for the sake of Metria's employees, so that they can get into a relationship where they can work even better together with other consulting companies.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-221	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is a hypothetical question, because at the moment you are not in a process. I think, unlike Lars Beckman, you can't do very good business if you go out and say that everything is sold on sale. We have seen a large number of examples of this. Many moderate-led sales have been made locally, regionally and sometimes also nationally – for example by health centres and preschools – which have subsequently proved to be a pure framework for transfers of wealth from the common, from taxpayers, to individual traders. I believe that one of the reasons for this is this kind of blind ideologies, which always means that it is good in one way or another; there are those who think that it is always good if it is public, while others think it is always good if it is private. I have a more pragmatic approach. I have been asked several times: have I met entrepreneurs who think it is good that this type of government company exists? Yes, I have met a great many entrepreneurs who point out that it is good that the companies are jointly owned and open to everyone, especially when it comes to the companies that exist in infrastructure that is fundamental to society. Then it's just like Lars Beckman says. Of course, if you are in the same business, you are not so convinced of the excellence of this. I understand that, too. As far as Metria is concerned, it is not an ideology. It is important to do so in a practical and good way both for the company and its development as well as for the taxpayer. Should we end up in such a position that we have such a process, we will of course carry it out as seriously and well as it can only be. This applies to the employees mentioned by Lars Beckman, but also to the state as a shareholder and therefore to the taxpayer. Unfortunately, we are not there today. Should that happen, we will, on the basis of the rules and laws that apply, communicate it in the manner in which it is done.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-225	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister for Economic Affairs is standing in the speaker's seat fighting windmills. I guess he'll have to read the minutes eventually. I said that we are in complete agreement that when a sale is made of a public service, it should take place at market prices. I also mentioned that no subsidy should be paid to someone who buys a public service. We fully agree on that. What we do not agree on is the view of enterprise. I note that the Minister for Economic Affairs does not share my view that the state should not compete with private companies. That's where we split up. Then it becomes interesting to see. We will certainly have more opportunities to debate Mr Metria. This is particularly true if we enter a recession. If it is in that way that Metria goes with great losses and causes government costs in a recession, there is every reason to consider why the government did not divest Metria in the boom when there were significant prospects for the company. I guess we'll see what happens. I welcome the fact that the Minister for Economic Affairs wants to sell Metria and follow Parliament's decision. I hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs will actively take steps to ensure that Metria ends up with a safe, stable and safe owner who ensures that the company can develop significantly better than with the State as a passive owner.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-229	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for a good discussion. I think we are basically in agreement on Metria. Then we are talking about the practical conditions. I have taken note of what Lars Beckman says in the speaker's chair about sales. This applies both to the ideological approach that it is always right and that it should be done seriously and well. What I am rather talking about are the actual examples of moderate-led sales of public services both locally and regionally as well as nationally. There are quite a few examples where it has been more important to get it out of the community's enclosure than that it has been done in a good way. There are also many media reports that there have been pure transfers of wealth in a way that has not been fair to taxpayers. If Lars Beckman doesn't know what I'm talking about, I'd be happy to send him these articles, and he can see this. It has been about preschools, health centres and some previous government activities. As far as this type of activity is concerned, it can be noted in the case of large companies as well as small companies in the state ownership that they have at times incurred losses. One of the most famous cases is Vattenfall and the many billions that needed to be written off not least after the Nuon deal. However, if you look at the state portfolio as a whole, it is more likely today to allocate significant billions to taxpayers and the public purse. That does not mean that every single company in any case does. But on the whole, it's that way, and that's good. The companies that do not, we work very closely so that the board and operational management can reverse the development that exists.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-234	Madam President, I would like Joar Forsell has asked Minister Hans Dahlgren whether he maintains that the now public China strategy is sufficient to support democratic development in Hong Kong or whether he intends to act in any further way to get the EU to support the Hong Kong democracy movement. The interpellation is handed over to me. Since August, my predecessor and I have presented the government's position in response to four questions about developments in Hong Kong. The Government's letter( 2019/ 20:18) The work on issues relating to China states that Sweden, like the rest of the EU, is behind the principle of The principle is the basis for maintaining Hong Kong's self-governing position with an independent political and legal system, in accordance with Hong Kong's constitution. Respect for the human rights and freedoms of Hong Kong residents in this law is of fundamental importance. Hong Kong's Constitution stipulates that the elections to both the Hong Kong Legislative Assembly and the Head of Government will be conducted in the future by universal suffrage. The government assumes that this will happen. For the government, work through the EU is fundamental to the situation in Hong Kong. The government has been a driving force for the EU to make it clear that the fundamental rights and freedoms of Hong Kong residents must be respected. The EU's latest statement on 2 October 2019 contains this clear message. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has presented the Government's view of developments in Hong Kong to the Chinese Embassy in Stockholm. Through our Consulate General in Hong Kong and the Embassy in Beijing, we are conducting an ongoing dialogue with the relevant authorities. In Hong Kong, our Consulate General is conducting an active dialogue with opposition politicians and civil society. The government continues to monitor developments in Hong Kong and will continue to support Hong Kong's self-governing position. Finally, I would like to point out that the government is consistently and clearly continuing to address the serious human rights situation in China in our contacts with Chinese government representatives and that we are working towards a strong and common European approach. This is also highlighted in the Government's letter( 2019/ 20:18) Work on issues related to China.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-241	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer from Minister Ann Linde. I would like to start by saying that it is a somewhat tricky interpellation to be boning out because it has several parts. The first part concerns the action of Mr Hans Dahlgren, Minister for EU Affairs, in this House on 12 September. At that time, I asked Mr Dahlgren a question as to whether, in his work as EU Minister, he intended to act in the European Union, quite simply. I assume that the EU Minister is responsible for things that are happening in Europe, at least to some extent. If he is not responsible for certain things, I assume that he is aware of what is happening in Europe. Otherwise, perhaps the EU minister should look for another job. The Government of Dahlgren then replied that answers will come in the China Strategy. I think he even expressed himself in terms of the fact that Mr Forsell can be calm, because this will work out with the China strategy. I have now read the strategy. I am quite provoked when I think back to what Hans Dahlgren said on September 12. When you read the China Strategy, it is clear that Mr Dahlgren either stood here in the Chamber and lied when we in Parliament used the important tool of Question Time to hold the government to account, because there is no answer in the China Strategy to how to resolve the situation in Hong Kong. Or it was that Hans Dahlgren simply didn't know and just made it up. Then one should say that you do not know the answer and in that case you already refer there to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as has then been done in this interpellation. I am pleased that the government, in the form of Ann Linde, has now been pleased to answer the question in a somewhat more detailed way than perhaps Mr Dahlgren could do. But it is provocative with the almost arrogance that they handle the important tool Q & A that we members of the Swedish Parliament have to ask important questions to the government in current questions in the way Hans Dahlgren does and then not come here to be held accountable. Madam President, I would like Having said that, the evolution of the situation in China remains worrying. I must say that the answer given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this House today is rather weak. It is filled with things like that we will respect one country and two systems. That goes without saying; it is an international agreement. Sweden respects international agreements. That is not an answer to the question, because it is a matter of course. They say that they should have dialogues with authorities and civil society. Surely that is also a matter of course! I assume the Ministry of Foreign Affairs through our consulates and embassies always have dialogues with authorities and civil society. They say you should follow the trend. That's probably why they have embassies – to follow developments in different countries. It is also something that we assume when we sit here in Parliament and work and try to follow the work of the government. We assume that developments in different countries will be monitored. But there is very little to describe the serious situation in Hong Kong. There is very little really sharp criticism of the dictatorship of China and its greatly increasing repression in Hong Kong. There is very little about the impact that it can have on Taiwan in the future. There is very little about how the government will act at EU level to ensure that those countries where, for example, China is gaining influence through its Belt and Road initiative are not able to stop continued strong EU action. My questions now go to the Foreign Minister: will the government condemn China's actions? And will the government take further steps to make the EU act more forcefully?
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-251	Madam President, I would like The Government's letter The work on China-related issues raises a large number of issues. The Government's intention is that the letter should be able to hold over time, and it cannot therefore go into all issues with a high degree of detail resolution. The essence of Hong Kong in particular is that the letter sets out the principle of one country and two systems and that it should be respected. This principle is one way of expressing the very basis of Hong Kong's constitution. This means, among other things, that Hong Kong's citizens should be able to enjoy respect for human rights. Among them are freedom of expression and assembly. The fact that Sweden and the EU have clearly stated that we support the principle means that we will continue to safeguard respect for Hong Kong's full enjoyment of human rights. Overall, I would also like to mention that the government states in the letter that we will continue to address the human rights situation in China overall. This also includes Hong Kong, of course, but also other parts of China.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-254	Madam President, I would like We can now, after hearing this further response from the government, conclude that that is exactly the case. And I think that's reasonable. The China Strategy should last over time, and the China Strategy should be long-term. That is a reasonable way of looking at the document on the China Strategy. It is only that, when Hans Dahlgren said on 12 September that the Chinese strategy would solve the acute situation in Hong Kong, it was obviously a lie. The China Strategy is a document that is intended to lay out a long-term strategy for Sweden's relations with China. That is good; it is clear that we should have such a strategy. But that does not answer the question of what we can do here and now to support democracy in Hong Kong. I and the Liberals have made several proposals. We believe, for example, that the government must strongly and unequivocally condemn China and China's actions. What China is doing right now in Hong Kong against the democracy activists there is not just about violating human rights in Hong Kong; it is also a test bed for what can be done to Taiwan. There is an internationally recognized way of measuring freedom from Freedom House where China reaches level 11. Hong Kong reaches level 59 and Taiwan level 93 – that is, 93 on a 100-degree scale! What we are now seeing in Hong Kong is China's way of provoking, with small steps at a time, things that constantly push forward the positions of violating human rights. We must have a strong condemnation from the government. Work is also needed at European level to remove the veto from individual European countries towards a strong EU foreign policy. And why? Because China also has strategies to influence European countries. Madam President, I would like We know that China, through its Belt and Road initiative, is, among other things, taking countries in the EU hostage and making sure that they are blocking strong action in the common foreign policy towards China. It is clear that we need a long-term strategy, but here and now we need to ensure that we support the democracy activists in Hong Kong, condemn China and China's actions and make it clear that we will not agree to this. If we do not do so here and now, Hong Kong will not reach its 59 points in the future on the scale that measures freedom and democracy. Then China's repression of Hong Kong will increase. And we will see on the other side of the strait how democracy and freedom in Taiwan are being cut down more and more by an increasingly authoritarian and dangerous China. I am once again concerned when I think back to 12 September and what Mr Dahlgren said about the situation in Hong Kong being resolved with the China strategy. Madam President, I would like I have not been less concerned to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs here today when she has said that China's strategy should be a long-term document. I think that is good, but it also means that when I asked Hans Dahlgren the answer was either mambojumbo and a way of trying to get away with answering the question or a pure lie. It is good that the document is long-term, but it does not answer the question of what to do here and now.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-263	I would like to remind the interpeller that Minister Dahlgren is not present and is taking part in the debate.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-264	Madam President, I would like I am well aware of the escalation of the unrest in Hong Kong that began on Sunday afternoon and has continued both yesterday and today. Yesterday some 280 people were arrested, and today there have been violent clashes. There have been car fires and barricades. Large parts of local traffic have been down, and several schools and universities have closed. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs and our Consulate General are closely monitoring developments. As I have said, the work through the EU is fundamental to the government in relation to the situation in Hong Kong. The EU was early involved in the issue of Hong Kong. The protests there began in criticism of the high-profile draft law on the extradition of suspects – a proposal that the Hong Kong Government has now withdrawn. While the proposal was still on the table, the EU countries' Hong Kong offices already held a meeting on 24 May with Hong Kong's Head of Government Carrie Lam to express the EU's view that the proposed law must be in line with Hong Kong's constitution. The EU has then expressed itself several times on developments, and then consistently on a mandate for restraint and dialogue. Respect for human rights and the rule of law has been a common thread in the EU's approach from the outset, including in the EU's public statements. The government is working to ensure that the EU continues to take this very clear line both in meetings with stakeholders and in public. Federica Mogherin i, EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, visited Beijing no later than 23-24 October. In her meeting with the Chinese Foreign Minister, she raised Hong Kong, which, of course, we welcome from the government.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-269	Madam President, I would like If I had wanted a history description of recent developments in Hong Kong, I could have read about it in a newspaper. Madam President, I would like What the Council of State here describes is only what is already known. I know what's happening in Hong Kong; that's why I'm upset. I know what's going on on the streets of Hong Kong. I myself visited Hong Kong earlier this year and talked to democracy activists and opposition politicians, and I know very well what is happening there. The problem, Madam President, and the reason why I wrote the interpellation is and remains the action of the government. Now it is clear that the government is aware of what is going on, and it seems that the government does not want to act forcefully. Of course, it is said that we should protect one country, two systems. Well, that's an international agreement. What other international agreements does the government intend us not to comply with? It goes without saying that we are complying with international agreements in this country. However, it has still not responded to what we are going to do here and now to support the democracy activists in Hong Kong and to ensure that China ceases its aggressive, anti-democratic offensive against its immediate neighbourhood. I would like to end this interpellation debate by clearly putting the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs if the government condemns China and China's actions in Hong Kong.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-273	Madam President, I would like In support of EU policy, we also operate from the Swedish side. As I have said to our Consulate General in Hong Kong, an active dialogue with opposition politicians and with civil society. This is important in order to strengthen our own perception of development and, hopefully, can also contribute across the board to safeguard dialogue as an approach to resolving the current situation. In my former capacity as Minister of European Affairs and Trade, I met with representatives of Hong Kong's civil society, both in Hong Kong and here in Stockholm. I hope that I will have the opportunity to do so as Foreign Minister as well. Incidentally, I would like to thank Joar Forssell for the opportunity to discuss the important issue of developments in Hong Kong.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-276	As I'm sure you know, we don't accept manifestations from the public gallery.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-277	Madam President, I would like Mrs Pethrus has asked me how I see the possibility of setting up a commission of inquiry on the Dawit Isaak case and how the government intends to work within the EU to get Dawit Isaak released. First of all, let me emphasise that the government is strongly committed to Dawit Isaak's case, and the aim is to release him. It is very serious that Dawit Isaak is still in custody after 18 years, for which Eritrea is responsible. The government is working actively and purposefully – and is constantly looking at all possible ways forward – to release Dawit Isaak. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is also in close contact with the family and with Dawit Isaak's support group. The Government conducts an active and broad dialogue with representatives of Eritrea at various levels. We welcome the reconciliation between Ethiopia and Eritrea and wholeheartedly support that process. It is our hope that all opportunities with a resolution of conflict will be exploited. At the same time, we note that no clear changes have yet been made in Eritrea. With regard to Mrs Pethrus' question about a commission of inquiry aimed at drawing lessons from other cases where Swedes have been detained abroad, I can assure her that we are turning all the stones around to release Dawit Isaak. Different methods and work processes are continuously tested and evaluated. It is, of course, important that experience from previous work is taken into account, and it is also done regularly, for example, in terms of working methods, procedures and processes. The experience and specific knowledge of officials shall be taken into account. The government's assessment is therefore that it is not advisable to set up a special commission of inquiry in order to learn from other cases. A key priority for Sweden's and the EU's relationship with Eritrea is to strengthen and promote human rights and promote security in the country and in the region, including through increased regional integration. Increased trade and investment between Eritrea and Ethiopia and the other countries of the region create livelihoods and contribute to stability and strengthened peace between Eritrea and Ethiopia. The EU's development cooperation with Eritrea takes particular note of this, inter alia, through the financing of projects to improve the roads to the Eritrean ports. At the same time, Sweden's and the EU's human rights starting points in Eritrea are a very clear focus in the dialogue with the country's government.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-282	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply, but I am, of course, disappointed that the government and the Foreign Minister do not think it is time for a commission of inquiry in the Dawit Isaak case, which I think is extremely important. In its response to the interpellation, the Government believes that the main priority for Sweden's and the EU's relationship with Eritrea is to strengthen and promote human rights and security in the country, but trade and investment also seem to be high on the government's agenda. The government then believes that EU efforts on roads and infrastructure in the country are good. However, I cannot see that these efforts on Eritrea have led to an improvement in the human rights situation in Eritrea. Or can the Foreign Minister here today show any such improvements? It is now 18 years since the Swedish-eritrean author and journalist Dawit Isaak was arrested in Eritrea. He is the Swedish who has been imprisoned for the longest time abroad, without prosecution or judgment. The government's silent diplomacy obviously does not work, and so this commission of inquiry is needed to see what has to be done differently. When Dawit was arrested in 2001, he had published various articles on politicians' demands for free elections and to adopt a constitution. The criticism was directed against President Afewerki, but he's still in power. Since the arrest, Dawit has never been tried. He has not been formally accused of any crime. The Eritrean government has not allowed him to meet either family, lawyer or Swedish diplomats during his detention period. He was suddenly released in 2005, but after only a few days he was arrested again on a doctor's visit. Then there is no contact with Dawit. In 2014, Eritrea's Stockholm Embassy announced that Dawit was alive, but then we have no more information. Madam President, I would like I believe that the Swedish Government must be able to do more to press the Eritrean regime in order to get Dawit released. Sweden has had several cases of Swedes arrested by regimes or captured by terrorist groups, such as Martin Schibbye and Johan Persson, who were imprisoned in Ethiopia in 2011 and released in 2012, but also Johan Gustafsson, who was captured by Al-Qaida's North African branch Aqim in Mali in 2011 and released in 2017. I think it is important to draw experience from the work that has been done on these cases. A commission of inquiry would be one way of finding out which actions could be most effective. From 2016 to 2020 Eritrea will have received EUR 200 million of EU assistance. The EU is now committed to a stronger partnership with Africa, and several billions have already been set aside in various funds. Trade and aid should, it says, promote human rights and democracy. The Swedish Government should now be a clear voice in the EU so that the long-term aid now to be taken into the long-term EU budget really promotes democracy. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think that the strategy on aid to Eritrea has improved the human rights situation in Eritrea so that Dawit Isaak will soon be free?
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-291	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise once again that the government is doing everything it can for Dawit Isaak. He's been in prison for over 18 years. His fate has continued to be a very high priority for the government, and great efforts are being made to get him released so that he can be reunited with his family in Sweden. I have personally raised his fate with the Foreign Minister of Eritrea. At the same time, I have to say that Eritrea has not met us at all. However, our efforts will continue unabated until the day Dawit Isaak is free. Désirée Pethrus addresses other cases where Swedes have been detained abroad and notes that it is important to draw conclusions from previous work. Of course I agree with that, but it is done on a regular basis. Of course, it is important that experience from previous work is taken into account. We also do this when it comes to working methods, procedures and processes, and the specific skills of our staff are taken into account. Although each case is unique, it must be handled in accordance with the current context and the individual circumstances of each case. It is important to use lessons and experiences from previous cases, including those mentioned by Mrs Pethrus. Against this background, it is the view of the government that it is not necessary to set up a special commission of inquiry for this purpose. The government's work to get Dawit Isaak free is ongoing. A test is being carried out if the chosen strategy is the most favourable. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and relevant foreign authorities in the region and elsewhere are involved in this work, and human resources are extensive. We spend a lot of time and extensive resources on finding a solution. Diplomatic contacts, consisting of talks, meetings and relations, are often based on strong intimacy. It is in the nature of things that you cannot or should not always conduct these talks in public, but that does not mean that the government is not doing everything it can to get Dawit Isaak free, but vice versa. We also maintain close contact with Dawit Isaak's family and the Free Dawit support association to keep them informed about what is being done and to be able to take advantage of the suggestions and ideas that are coming. At every given opportunity, of course, we make sure to judge what is best to get Dawit Isaak free, and then we work on that basis. Désirée Pethrus asks if we should suspend all cooperation with the Eritrean government. I would like to say that one of the main priorities of Sweden's relations with Eritrea is to strengthen and promote human rights and security in the country in dialogue. This is particularly important now, in the context of the peace process. Without such contact points, our opportunities for dialogue are considerably limited, so we do not believe in interrupting dialogue or development cooperation.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-297	Madam President, I would like The proposal for a commission of inquiry has included Dawit Isaak's fellow journalists here in Sweden. Reporters without borders and others think that this is the way forward that we need to go. The Minister for Foreign Affairs says that she is strongly committed to Dawit Isaak's case in order to free him and to engage in an active and broad dialogue with representatives of Eritrea at various levels. At the same time, we can unfortunately note that a very small proportion of Swedish aid goes towards promoting human rights. Eritrean human rights activists have highlighted the fact that the EU must now make higher demands, what we call conditionality, in aid. The EU agreement with Eritrea lacks, I mean, strong wording on human rights. Most of the support goes to the regime, which is totally unacceptable, and that without changing anything. More for more, i.e. that you get more because you actually make changes, does not seem to apply in the case of Eritrea. In this way, Sweden and the EU hold a regime under their arms that oppresses their own people. There has also been evidence that EU aid has financed forced labour. The UN has called forced labour in the country slavery and crimes against humanity. Is it reasonable for us to continue all these aid projects in Eritrea while not seeing any results in terms of improved human rights? We also see no results in the Dawit Isaak case. We can't even hear him or see him. Diplomats can't even visit him. Much can be said about the previous cases in Ethiopia, but at least they met those in prison there. In addition, Sweden worked in the UN Security Council to lift the sanctions against Eritrea. What has been the result, Minister for Foreign Affairs? It does not seem to have helped either the human rights situation in the country or to free Dawit. Madam President, I would like I do not think I have received an answer to my question about how the EU Foreign Minister should get Dawit Isaak free. In a resolution, the European Parliament has criticised the EU's aid programme for Eritrea. It is believed that the EU is too passive in terms of human rights. The UN independent rapporteur for Eritrea, Daniela Kravetz, is not even allowed to enter the country. At the same time, the EU is funding major infrastructure projects. That's not acceptable. What is the government really doing to press for the EU to change its direction and make demands when drafting in order to put clear demands on human rights on the agenda? This way we can hopefully see Dawit Isaak free in the future. I find it strange that a number of things are being highlighted – to improve roads to Eritrean ports and so on – while we cannot see a single ounce of change in the situation of Dawit Isaak. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs remains: Is it reasonable that we have all this funding in Swedish aid but also in EU aid while we see no improvement in human rights?
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-308	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is yes, it is very reasonable to continue to have this aid. It is above all a question of supporting the peace process between Ethiopia and Eritrea. Then it is important that there be concrete results for people so that they see that it gives something and can make a living. The paths taken by Mrs Pethrus are to facilitate trade and investment between Ethiopia and Eritrea so that jobs can be created in both countries. Not doing this would not make it easier to get Dawit Isaak free. The question is how much the EU should give to Eritrea for this. Now the budget is EUR 20 million. It is implemented by the Eritrean Government with the support of the United Nations Project Services Agency. The money goes to materials and procurement of road machinery. Labour costs are borne by the Eritrean Government. The UN's tasks include responsibility for and follow-up to pay for workers and to ensure that working conditions are in accordance with local legislation. This is followed up by the EU with Eritrea in the political dialogue. The question of the use of slave labour, as Mrs Pethrus also mentioned, concerns those employed to build roads. It is decided by the Eritrean Government, and it cannot be excluded that people in the National Service will work in the projects. There are statutory minimum wages for these persons. They are low with Swedish measurements measured but not in a regional context. The peace process between Eritrea and Ethiopia creates better conditions for the eventual phasing out of the National Service, and it is important that there be jobs for those who leave the National Service. Mrs Pethrus also asked whether we are working to lift the sanctions against Eritrea. In fact, on 14 November 2018, a united Security Council decided to lift the sanctions against Eritrea. Sweden supported that decision on the grounds that the sanctions were no longer imposed. One of the reasons why they were introduced was about Eritrea's support for the terrorist organisation al-Shabab in Somalia. It could not have been demonstrated in five years by the UN Monitoring Group on the sanctions that there were grounds for keeping them. A number of former armed groups in the Horn of Africa have now laid down their weapons. In the long run, Sweden hopes that the lifting of sanctions can contribute to continued positive development with more cooperation, trade, development and reform in the countries on the Horn of Africa. One might ask, as Mrs Pethrus does, why the sanctions are lifted when Eritrea still has many political prisoners, such as Dawit Isaak. The sanctions were not imposed because of Eritrea's internal situation but for reasons linked to Somalia and Al-Shabab and other armed groups and the aftermath of the 2008 conflict with Djibouti. Eritrea still has a major human rights deficit. These are dealt with in several ways, for example in the UN Human Rights Council and through the UN Special Rapporteur for Eritrea. Sweden also conducts a direct dialogue with Eritrea on these issues in various ways.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-316	Madam President, I would like I am a little surprised that the Minister for Foreign Affairs still does not say that aid can well be used to impose human rights requirements. I do not think I hear the Foreign Minister mention this, and it is tragic. In principle, anyone fleeing Eritrea gets, I believe, a residence permit in Sweden because Eritrea is a harsh dictatorship where political opponents are tortured and imprisoned. The regime systematically oppresses and persecutes dissidents. The peace process between Ethiopia and Eritrea does not seem to have put a great deal of emphasis on human rights in Eritrea. Therefore, Sweden, but also the European Union and the United Nations, must press for criticism and resistance to Eritrea and not just to pay out aid funds without making demands. Sweden can do more to lift the case of Dawit Isaak in the EU and the UN. A commission of inquiry would be to take a holistic approach. Perhaps you could involve other people than those who are currently involved. I do not think the government has shown that all the stones have been turned around. It is difficult to know exactly what the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is doing, but what we can see and examine is aid. That's where I'd like more from the government. To conclude, I note that during the time of the previous Alliance, we included Dawit Isaak in every foreign declaration. Unfortunately, he is not included in the Red-Green Government declaration. It would have been necessary to really highlight the importance of this case.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-320	Madam President, I would like The security policy situation in the Horn of Africa has improved significantly recently. The former enemies of Eritrea and Ethiopia have made peace with each other, and relations between other countries in the region have also improved. The government is keen to support this development in the way that is possible. This is important in view of the region's almost 200 million inhabitants, for poverty reduction and for diaspora in Sweden and Europe and elsewhere, and for securing free trade routes through the Red Sea. We very much welcome the reconciliation between Ethiopia and Eritrea and wholeheartedly support this process. It is still, despite the fact that more than a year has passed since the peace agreements, our hope is that all the opportunities of a settled conflict will be exploited. The Government conducts an active and broad dialogue with representatives of Eritrea at various levels. Our view is that it is still important to involve Eritrea in this dialogue, especially in the light of the peace agreements with Ethiopia. Finally, the government continues its efforts to get Dawit Isaak free. There should be no doubt about this. Our work will not end until the day Dawit Isaak is reunited with his family.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-324	Madam President, I would like Mrs Quicklund has asked me what I intend to do to prevent the development of the increasing number of deaths in the workplace. No one should have to die as a result of their work. Every fatal accident is a tragedy for those involved and unacceptable for a modern working life. The Government decided in January 2016 on a strategy for health and safety at work for 2016 – 2020. One of the three priority areas of the OSH strategy is zero vision against fatal accidents and prevention of accidents at work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority received several assignments within the framework of this area. They've all been re-reported. Between 2015 and 2018, the Government increased the Agency's funding by approximately SEK 110 million to enable the Agency to hire more inspectors and increase its presence at the workplace. As a result of the application, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has employed more than 150 new inspectors, and the number of inspections has increased. Special inspection efforts have been carried out in the construction, manufacturing, transport and staffing sectors in recent years. In June 2019, the Government instructed the Swedish Work Environment Authority to carry out an analysis of fatal accidents at work and to draw conclusions and consider appropriate measures. I look forward to taking part in the Swedish Work Environment Authority's analysis. The Government proposes in the budget proposal for 2020 that the Swedish Work Environment Authority's administrative grant be increased by SEK 5 million so that more inspections can be made to prevent cheating, regulatory violations and crime in the workplace. Strengthening the inspection activities of the Swedish Work Environment Authority also contributes to preventing fatal accidents at work. Everyone needs to take responsibility in the systematic work environment work at each individual workplace. By deliberately working to prevent accidents at work, we also reduce the risk of fatal accidents. Employers have ultimate responsibility for the working environment. Once the current strategy on health and safety at work has expired, the Government intends to develop a new strategy. A zero vision against fatal accidents is one of the three priority areas of the current strategy, but efforts to combat fatal accidents must take more place. Nothing but a zero vision can apply to death at work. Preventing fatal accidents is an important priority for the government. Concrete action is necessary to prevent accidents at work leading to injury or death.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-332	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your answer. We are debating fatal accidents at work today, and I would like to begin by expressing my deep regret at the deaths that have occurred at the workplaces in our country. These days a parent, son, daughter or friend went to work but never came back again. Every fatal accident is one too many – there the Minister and I are in complete agreement. The reason for my interpellation is therefore that the number of fatal accidents at work is not decreasing. In January this year we had the highest number in ten years: 9 deaths in the workplace. In 2018, 58 people were killed in our workplaces. In four years 170 people have died in workplaces. Deaths are thus increasing for the fourth year in a row. The trend is quite the opposite to the government's intention to reduce fatal accidents. We have debated this several times, most recently just a week ago, but I think the issue is so important that I want to wake this up again. There are many laudable wordings from the government, but I think that in many paragraphs there is a lack of substance, strategies and so on for it to be constructive and good– hence this debate. I would also like to comment on certain aspects of the Minister's response. The Minister for Labour mentions the work environment strategy and the zero vision, which was introduced in 2016. The government has been working on this issue for almost five years, and it must nevertheless be seen as a failure that the figures have not improved. The Minister also claims that the Swedish Work Environment Authority received several assignments in this area and that they are all reported back. Since we still have to see it as a failure as deaths increase, I have to ask what effect these efforts have had. And what will the government now change to make more effective proposals? The Minister claims that during the period 2015– 2018, the Government increased funding to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. There would then be more inspectors. Then I can mention that in 2013, during the alliance period, there were 31,386 inspections. So it was the last year of the alliance government. In 2018, there were 27 000 inspections. So there were considerably more inspections during the alliance period. The Swedish Work Environment Agency would also analyse the fatal accidents, and the Minister claims that she wants to take part in it. The question then is: When will the analysis come? It's very interesting. Employers have ultimate responsibility for health and safety at work. That's where we're in complete agreement. But if it does not work, the Minister for Labour still has a great responsibility for it to work. We're talking about the fatal accidents and the zero vision. Concrete action is necessary, the Minister mentions. Today's efforts are not working – I will come back to that – and deaths are increasing. My question will then be: what action does the Minister for Labour intend now to add and change in order to have an effect on fatal accidents at our workplaces?
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-341	Madam President, I would like It is very important that every workplace in our entire elongated country has a safety thinking and work environment work locally at the workplace. It is essential to prevent ill health, workplace accidents and, at worst, fatal accidents. Research shows that carelessness and mistakes occur more often in workplaces that lack their own locally organised protection work. That is why the 100 000 safety representatives who are currently active in workplaces around our country have a very important role, together with employers, in preventing and preventing accidents, at worst fatal accidents. Many workplaces currently lack safety representatives. The main regional safety ombudsmen will then play an important role. According to figures that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has received from LO, TCO and Saco, the regional main safety representatives were 1,725 in 2018. As I said, the main regional safety representatives have a very important role both in stepping in where there are no safety representatives and in ensuring that more people want to take on that role and in getting started and strengthening the local work environment. It is about being able to ensure that no one gets hurt or at worst dies even if there is no safety representative in the workplace. If we look at how the labour market in Sweden develops, we see that we are getting more and more smaller companies with fewer employees, i.e. workplaces with fewer employees. This may also make it more difficult to recruit someone as a safety representative in the workplace in question. There, the main regional safety representatives have a very important task. Madam President, I would like This spring this Parliament has the opportunity to make a real difference with me. It is about being able to increase security and strengthen safety in our workplaces. I will present a proposal to the Parliament to give greater access rights to the regional main protection officers, so that we can ensure that in all the workplaces where there are currently no safety representatives and trade unionists, there is an opportunity for the regional main protection officers to enter and carry out the important safety representative work. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask Mrs Quicklund: are you prepared to support that proposal? It could play a major role in increasing safety and security at work in Sweden.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-346	Madam President, I would like It was a steamed answer but not so much concrete about a changed strategy. The current strategy and the zero vision are not working. However, there is room for those answers to be included later in this debate. I will give some examples of what has emerged in the debate on fatal accidents. These are different examples from reality. The Swedish Work Environment Agency's Deputy Director General Håkan Olsson has stated in the media that the government misses the target as the deaths increase. He says: We cannot accept the death of someone. There's got to be a loser. He also says that there are no concrete targets for reducing deaths per year. It sounds very strange that there should not be concrete targets per year. It is of course a matter of governance and governance from the government, and of course there must be detailed objectives and a strategy for how to achieve the goals. It becomes very unclear when it is expressed that way on the part of the government. In a review, Svenska Dagbladet has also stated that cooperation between authorities, which is extremely central, not least when it comes to the Police Authority and investigations of crime and so on, does not work painlessly, which is serious. Although the Minister cannot be responsible for the parts that are in the workplace, this is an important part of the Minister, that is, the responsibility of the government, which the Minister has. It's serious, I think. You also miss a large part of the overall thinking. You put in a lot of resources to the Swedish Work Environment Authority but do not have a working whole. It is a chain of efforts that must work in order for it to be effective and good. The Ombudsman has also criticized the Police Authority and the Swedish Prosecution Authority in connection with the accident at LKAB in Norrbotten. And hear and be amazed: Even after four years the investigation has not been completed! The limitation period is five years, and we risk that the investigation will not be completed. It doesn't make any sense. In their committee motion, the Moderates have therefore proposed that we double the limitation period for both normal and serious occupational health and safety offences. The police authority has also reported that the handling of occupational health and safety offences is inadequate. The processing times are too long, and the resources are too few. This is once again a chain of efforts that must work. The Moderates then propose four times more in grants to the police than the government does. This is what I miss in the government. It has a strategy to reduce fatal accidents, but it does not have the overall thinking. If the police don't have the resources, we won't get the investigations done. Then we cannot learn from the cases that have been, and so on. This is most remarkable. I come back to the fact that in 2013, during the alliance period, 31 000 inspections were carried out and today 27 000. Why have inspections been reduced since the alliance period despite greater funding? And why are the deaths increasing? What is the Minister for Labour's theory or analysis of this? In my opinion, this is rarely reflected in the debate on fatal accidents at work.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-358	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of questions at the same time. Why don't I bring up some of them? I have no theories of my own, but I trust the authorities that are set to do this work. Among other things, the Swedish Work Environment Authority points out that the boom and a very fast pace can be a reason why accidents occur at our workplaces. However, as I said in my previous speech, there are of course a number of different explanations that need to be taken into account. Research shows that in workplaces where there is no protection organisation, there is more carelessness. This can lead to injury or death in the workplace at worst. One thing that I agree with Saila Quicklund about is a big problem is long processing times. Work is under way to review the limitation period, but the most important thing is to shorten the processing times. It shouldn't take long to investigate occupational health and safety crimes. Therefore, work is currently under way in which the Police Authority, the Swedish Work Environment Agency and the Swedish Prosecution Authority develop and increase knowledge about investigating work environment crimes. There we agree that it should not take so long. These are very important questions. Only a few weeks ago in this House we had a topical debate on fatal accidents. I take fatal accidents very seriously. As I could tell on that occasion, there are also examples from my own family. I told him about Edvin Nordmark, who died in a workplace accident at SSAB, the ironworks in Luleå, 70 years ago. It was my husband's grandfather. I know how it can affect a family, a district and a society for generations to come. We must always have a zero vision of fatal accidents at work. No one should have to die at work or at work. We also know that over 700 people die each year because of work-related stress. It is also a very important issue: to ensure that our working environments are good. When we go home from work or work class, we'll feel good. It is a major priority for the government to ensure both a zero vision for fatal accidents and a good working environment. It is the very foundation for us to feel good as individuals but also as a society. Madam President, I would like In fact, the budget motion launched by the Moderates in Parliament for the next financial year only once mentions the working environment. It is mentioned once in the Moderate Budget Movement, and it is in the proposal to close the Agency for Safety and Health at Work. During the time you sat in the government, you cut heavily in health and safety policy. This affected, among other things, the knowledge about the working environment. The Institute for Work was shut down. I have to say that it's a bit strong that Saila Quicklund criticises the government – it's obvious – while she has very few suggestions and solutions of her own. It would be interesting to take note of them, because we agree that we should have a zero vision of fatal accidents at work. I am sensitive to trying everything necessary to ensure that no one dies at or from their work.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-366	I would like to remind you that we are neither duar nor niar in here, but we are talking through the President.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-367	Madam President, I would like I really want to regret the death of the Minister for Labour's family. The Minister for Labour says that she has no ideas of her own, theories, as a minister. It is strange, worrying and most irresponsible of a minister who has this responsibility. There's a death a week. In January, we had the highest number of deaths in ten years. There is a lack of interaction between authorities and long processing times. It is a zero vision and a health and safety strategy that has failed. During his time, the Alliance cut down at the Swedish Work Environment Authority by 10 per cent. During the alliance period, the number of deaths decreased by 56% per billion hours worked. It is the parliamentary investigation service that has produced it. The Swedish Work Environment Authority became more efficient. We had 4,000 more inspections than today. The government has been working on these issues for almost five years. Sanctions systems were introduced that made it clearer with responsibility for occupational safety and health offences and accidents. We invested in information and education, which gave effect. We do not see that working today. The government could learn from the work environment of the alliance period between 2006 and 2014. The government has the overall responsibility for public authority and, in collaboration with various parties, the actors involved, must urgently have a much more effective health and safety policy. This doesn't work. And the very negative accident statistics must, of course, be broken. Thank you for the debate.
i-eb39dda2cbd71049-373	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Saila Quicklund! I guess I got it wrong. What I said was not that I have no thoughts of my own but that I trust our authorities and research. I think it is very important to start from that very point of view when we then decide which types of measures are important to take. No one should have to die on or off the job. In the course of the debate, I have presented some of the efforts the government has made and what we can do. What I very much hope is that we will be able to get support to extend the possibility for regional safety representatives to carry out important work in workplaces where there is currently no protection work. This would increase safety and safety and prevent accidents at our workplaces. Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Quicklund for a debate on a very important subject.
