i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-4	Mr President, I would like to Runar Filer has again asked me whether I am going to bring the question to the EU to work for a change to the Birds Directive and whether I am going to promote a Swedish derogation from the Birds Directive. The background to the question is that Runar Filer believes that general hunting time on cormorants would be good from an administrative point of view. The cormoral population and how it is managed is an important issue. I am aware that fishing can be adversely affected because cormorants can take caught fish and damage fishing gear. There are also indications that cormorant populations may have a local adverse effect on fish stocks. I am also aware that nature in connection with nesting places for cormorants is changing. The number of joints can be perceived locally as problematic. The cormorants are protected under the Birds Directive, Directive 2009/147/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 30 November 2009. Only the European Commission has the power to propose amendments to the Birds Directive or its annexes, including the protection of the cormorants. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has overall national responsibility for the implementation of game management policy, including issues related to the management of the cormorant population. The game administration is regionalised, and if justified, the county administrative board may decide to hunt for protection in accordance with the regulations in force. When permits for protection hunting are granted, the permit is often not fully used. The Government is concerned about the functioning of game management in accordance with our international commitments, which also take into account the activities and people involved.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister Lövin! I thank you for the answer, but it did not really say much more than that the Government thinks it is an important issue, that fishing can be adversely affected, that nature changes around breeding grounds, that it is the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that has the overall responsibility and that it is the County Administrative Board that grants protection hunting. We know that from before. In fact, Sweden has the most cormorants and most cormorants in Europe. The Swedish Ornithological Association made an inventory in 2006 that revealed that there were 45 000 nesting couples – only Denmark was in the vicinity with 40 000 nesting couples – and 200 000 individuals. This was over ten years ago. There have not been so many comprehensive inventories since then, more than in various counties, but I have seen figures that today there are around 250 000 individuals. By the end of the 1800s, the cormorants were more or less extinct, and in 1975 there were 340 couples in Sweden. That was before we joined the European Union. There was a type of public hunt in the past, but it was stopped as we joined the EU in 19 95. Then it is the Birds Directive that governs this, and that is why we must now only hunt for protection. Several groups and organisations in society and also parties here in Parliament believe that general hunting must be pursued. There are too many cormorants, and the cormorants are, to their present extent, a pest. General hunting would also protect the credibility of the Birds Directive. The Birds Directive should not protect such a general species as the cormorant. The cormorants consume considerable quantities of fish — cod and other food fish. It damages the cod, bites it and chops it in so that it becomes unusable to the market. It is a problem for fisheries in general and coastal fisheries in particular. There's a sharp increase in cormorants. According to the County Administrative Board, in 2016 there were over 30 000 cormorants only in the Stockholm archipelago. It damages forests – it has corrosive feces that kill all vegetation for years to come. It has a disturbing sound and is smelly. It feels like getting into a henhouse when you come near a so-called colony. The cormorant is a pest when it can grow to as unlimited as it does now, when you can't have real hunting for it. It is then a threat, especially to living archipelagos. A doctoral thesis in Turku from 2016 shows that the changes in the Baltic Sea environment caused by the cormorants are similar to the damage caused by man himself, such as eutrophication from agriculture and the reduction of predatory fish. In this respect, there is little support for investment in equipment to protect gear and catches, which was the answer I received when I asked a written question a few months ago. Does the Government not think, therefore, that, in view of both the fishing industry and the environment, it is high time to look at the issue of bringing about an update or an exception to the Birds Directive? It is a directive dating back to 1979. We need a protection rating that is in line with reality today. It is still 40 years since the directive came into being, and it does not rhyme with the reality we live in here in the Nordic countries.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-18	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Runar Filer, for raising this issue again! We share the view that cormorants locally can have a major impact on fish populations and not least on local fishing. According to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, what has primarily been documented is damage to gear and catches, mainly in bottom-net fishing for whitefish and eel. According to studies, this leads to unsaleable catches. I cannot endorse the figures referred to by the honourable Member. According to the latest inventory data reported by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, from 2017, there are over 700 inventory locations 20 000 cormorants, not 200 000 – 250 000 individuals. In this respect, I can see that our picture of reality differs considerably. There is no prohibition at all on hunting for cormorants in the form of protective hunting. In 2017, 67 decisions were taken on the protection hunt on cormorants. The decisions concerned, in particular, fishing gear, but also protected areas and landing sites. This protection hunt included about 7,000 individuals. Both the number of individuals and the number of permits issued are therefore quite significant. However, I note that only 35% of these individuals were reported as shot. There is probably a dark figure, but it is clear that the permits granted for protection hunting are still not being used to a great extent. What is the reason for this can be speculated on; I do not have an answer to that. But in no way is there a ban on engaging in local protection hunting on cormorants. Perhaps there is not enough information on the matter. However, the County Administrative Board has every opportunity to grant protection hunting, and there is also a management plan for which the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is responsible. With regard to the Birds Directive, only the European Commission has the power to propose amendments to it. In 2017, the Commission carried out an evaluation of the Birds Directive and did not find any reason to open it for revision. Nor has the European Parliament requested that a revision be carried out. Thus, the Birds Directive and the protection of cormorants continue to apply. Having said that, however, there are great opportunities to regulate local incidences of cormorant populations on the basis of the exceptions made for protection hunting.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-23	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. I'm well aware that protection hunting is allowed, and that's great. Unfortunately, however, the number that is shot is only a drop in the ocean. On 24 June 2017 – it is two years on today – it was possible to read in Östgöta – Correspondent that the County Administrative Board has been reported to the police for environmental crime by Roxens Fiskevårdsförening. Roxen is Östergötland's largest lake after Vättern. The scarf is about to destroy Roxen and was the title of the article. It destroys the islands, the waters around it and the entire lake's ecosystem through depletion. That is why the police report was directed against the County Administrative Board, which decides on a protective hunt. The Government will no doubt understand that a 300-square protection hunt is not enough when there are 6 000 – 7 000 in Roxen alone, as was announced in the report. A cormorant eats half a kilo a day during the summer. That's three tons a day in Roxen. Then it is understood that the number of fishermen has decreased from eight to one, or what it said. In any case, fishing has fallen by over 70%, and the ecosystem of a lake can be completely destroyed because of this. According to the report, lots of nitrogen and phosphorus come out of the colonies. It's like a rug of algae on the bottom of the islands. In all other contexts, such an impact is seen as an environmental villain – the Government knows that too. As I said, the cormorants have spread inland. Not only the coastal band but also inland lakes are affected nowadays. On August 2, 2016, P4 Gävleborg reported that camping owners were worried about losing their camping guests. The smell and the scream scare people away from the places, and even residents suffer when the cormorants completely take over the islands and the coastline with the harsh scent and knock out all vegetation. It'll be like ghostly islands, where no one but the cormorant wants to stay. I've seen pictures of such islands. It looks like pictures of snow, but it's not without pictures of spillage from the joints. On April 5, 2019, Sörmland was able to read in the news that the cormorants started flying into communities and were completely fearless when trying to scare them away. Comparisons were made with Alfred Hitchcock's classic thriller Birds, considering the invasion of cormorants as it has become. Doesn't the Government still think that a lot of the described problems people actually experience, both in the industry and among residents, could be solved if the cormorants were removed from the protected list so that general hunting was possible?
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-30	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Runar Filer, for this debate! This is undoubtedly a major concern for the fishing industry locally, and sometimes also for the local environment. Therefore, it is also important that there is the possibility to make local decisions and that the County Administrative Board is responsible for this. I also note that there are opportunities to take initiatives at municipal level. For example, a regional management plan for the cormorants has been developed in Gävleborg County, which the County Administrative Board holds. But local authorities can also come up with local initiatives and, of course, information that feeds into the management plans. Then we must see the full picture of the ecosystem, not least in the Baltic Sea. There we see over time very dramatic variations in both fish stocks and stocks of seals and cormorants. Looking back 100 years, you can see that the Baltic Sea has looked significantly different, with far more seals and much more cod. Then there were also fewer joints. We need to find a balance between these species. Of course, I basically share the great concern about how the Baltic Sea is doing. The eutrophication also plays in there. All these animals, however, are part of the natural ecosystem and should also be given the opportunity to live their natural lives in their range. When it comes to hunting, I can only say once again that many decisions on the protection of cormorants have not been used by those who can hunt the cormorants. Only 35 percent of the 7 000 individuals covered by the said 67 decisions were reported as shot. There may be dark figures here, but let us say that only about half of the stocks decided have been shot. Then there are other ways to scare away the cormorants, by sound and by other means, which can also be used, in addition to killing the animals. There are therefore several tools that can be used in the regional management plans or in the national management plan. An interesting initiative has been taken in Sotenäs municipality in Västra Götaland, where sea eagles are fed to attract them to the area. It is a natural way to decimate the cormorants as the sea eagle eats cormorants. It is very gratifying that we are seeing increasing populations of sea eagles. In the long term, there is a great possibility that this will regulate the cormorant stock as cormorants are an important food for the sea eagle. Again: The Birds Directive is something the EU looked at in 2017. There was no reason to change the annex, where the cormorants also exist. We should, first and foremost, make use of the available protection hunting opportunities, as well as other measures.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-38	Mr President, I would like to New research was presented in Sydöstran on 23 November 2017 which showed that the cormorants take at least as much eel as humans catch. There is fierce competition for fish between man, cormorant and seal. We know that. This was a study from Stockholm University and SLU that was presented in November 2017. Otherwise, in the debate about the eel being endangered, fishing and hydropower are painted as villains, as the Government knows for sure. "We must assume that cormorants eat a lot of eel," said Professor Sture Hansson at the Department of Ecology, Environment and botany at Stockholm University. It is no coincidence that through the centuries the cormorants have been called alech, I say. It takes a lot of eel. If it is impossible for the Government to try to influence the European Commission in order to bring about an update of the Birds Directive or to work to give Sweden an exception in order to engage in public hunting, which is a must in my view, what measures does the government plan to take against the problem of fishing industry, environmental threats and fishing grounds? Protection hunting isn't enough. The fact that you do not shoot more when you are allowed to do so is also due to the fact that there is a regulatory framework around it. It's not just going out and shooting, it's about when, where, how and how close to a place you get to be and so on. So it is not easy to hunt for protection either. In Åland you have a completely different type of jak t. There you have a more general hunt for cormorants. I would like answers to the last question.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-44	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to how we are going to regulate the major local problems that exist with the cormorants, my view is that today we have those tools. There is compensation for fishermen who need tools that are protected from cormorants and others who want to access the catches. There is also compensation for the damage to catches that fishermen may suffer. That is something we will continue to do. Then it is a question of being able to implement regional management plans. It is important to have sufficient information for hunters, for example, so that they can shoot those joints that are local problems. We must make full use of the opportunities available. As long as we do not do so, we may not need to make sure that we get another derogation from the Birds Directive, which, incidentally, applies to the whole of the European Union. We will not do so until we have made full use of the local and regional protection opportunities that exist.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-46	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government are aware of the fact that an IS terrorist from Sweden has so far been charged with crimes against international law, genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes. As regards the possibility of applying the Act on the Punishment of Genocide, Crimes against Humanity and War Crimes and the Rules of Assistance for Prosecution of Swedish IS terrorists to Syria and Iraq, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government's assessment is as follows: What the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government intends to take for measures to enable more IS supporters who have travelled to Syria and Iraq to be held responsible in Swedish courts for participating in the organisation's criminal activities. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Sweden's position is that all those who have committed serious crimes in the conflicts in Syria and Iraq should be held accountable. Through the Rome Statute, Sweden has undertaken to track down, investigate and contribute to the prosecution of perpetrators of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. The government has taken and continues to take this very seriously. With the same determination, we fight terrorism. In Swedish courts, seven people have so far been convicted of war crimes and terrorist crimes committed during the conflicts in Syria and Iraq. This has been possible after extensive investigation work by Swedish prosecutors and police officers. The law on penalties for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes can be used and used to prosecute even Swedes who have joined Daish and who are suspected of having committed such crimes in Syria and Iraq. It is essential that those responsible are convicted of their crimes regardless of how they are labeled. There are ongoing Swedish investigations involving suspicions of genocide, crimes against humanity or war crimes committed during the conflicts in Syria and Iraq. My hope, of course, is that the police and prosecutors will move forward in their investigations and be able to prosecute where justified. These are demanding investigations. It is particularly challenging to secure evidence. It is often found in areas in and around Syria and Iraq that are difficult for Swedish police for several reasons. The government is carrying out extensive work to meet the challenge of prosecuting as many of the perpetrators of these enormous crimes as possible. We are investigating all possibilities available. This involves examining the conditions for establishing some form of international tribunal or other legal mechanism to complement national prosecution. On 3 June Sweden hosted an expert meeting on this subject, among other things. Another possibility is to strengthen the Swedish judicial system's ability through, for example, improved international cooperation in order to obtain the necessary evidence.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-55	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There is no doubt that the so-called Islamic State, the IS, has committed crimes of international law, crimes against humanity, genocide and war crimes. Nor can there be any doubt that the approximately 300 men and women who travelled from Sweden to join and participate in the organisation knew very well what it stood for and what methods it used. They were all able to share in the terrible atrocities of IS propaganda and videos that were spread. It is good that the government now makes it clear that it is Sweden's position that anyone who has committed serious crimes in the conflicts in Syria and Iraq should be held accountable and that the law on penalties for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes can be used to prosecute even Swedes who have joined the IS and are suspected of having committed crimes in Syria and Iraq. So far it has been a widely held view that we in Sweden do not have legislation in place to prosecute these people, partly because the new law on association with terrorist organisations cannot be applied retroactively and because the difficulties of proof are so great that in practice it would not be possible to have anyone convicted in a Swedish court. Some people have been led to believe that there is, in principle, impunity for IS supporters. This, Mr President, is very dangerous to our society. Responsibilities seem to have shifted from law enforcement authorities to municipalities. That can never be accepted. In my focus today are the people who travelled from Sweden to join IS, who travelled to the so-called caliphate to give support to this organisation in various ways. I think that the answer gives cause for a few questions. Question number one is: Has any of the seven people referred to by Minister Mikael Damberg been IS supporters and convicted of travelling to the caliphate and in some way supported IS? If the answer is yes, I wonder: What crime classification was used, and what was the punishment? Question number two is: What does the government think in this context is punishable under the law on crimes against humanity? Does the government share my view that it is in any case an aid to crimes against humanity to join the IS and to get to the gigantic crime scene that the caliphate has been and to support the operation? Does the government believe that it is sufficient for criminal responsibility, for example, to carry out ambulance or other transport, cook or contribute in different ways to IS supply and that it does not require much more than the presence there itself? Question number three is: The Government tells us that there are ongoing Swedish investigations involving suspicions of crimes against humanity and more committed during the conflicts in Syria and Iraq. Do any of these pre-trial investigations relate precisely to IS supporters who have gone to the caliphate and there supported the organisation in its criminal activities? The last question is: Does the Government share my view that for each of the IS supporters who have travelled from IS-controlled territory or returned from IS-controlled area, there is reason to assume that in any case participation crimes have been committed and that a preliminary investigation is to be initiated? These are four issues that I think are important in order to clarify how the prosecution is actually going and with the follow-up of the crimes committed by the 150 people who have come back from these areas to Sweden and who are located in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. The question is what happens to them.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-63	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Oscarsson, for the interpellation! It is an incredibly important issue of accountability in relation to the enormous crimes that have been committed in the conflicts in Syria and Iraq by IS or Daish, which is perhaps the worst terrorist cult we have seen in modern times. I think it is incredibly important to do as Mikael Oscarsson says: to nuance the debate on the mandate of Swedish courts. Swedish courts simply have a broad mandate to judge Swedish citizens or citizens who are in Sweden for crimes against international law or other serious crimes that have been committed in, for example, these conflicts. A number of such judgments have been prejudiced, and several preliminary investigations are currently under way. But before we get into this a little more detail, I would like to say that it is important not to shift the focus entirely now. On the big issue of accountability, the government's view remains unchanged. I am not sure whether the Christian Democrats have changed their minds now. I hope that's not the case. In the interpellation it says: Sweden should therefore now use the rules on crimes against international law to prosecute IS terrorists in Swedish courts. We will do the same, but we are pushing the demand to look at the possibility of establishing an international tribunal or a legal mechanism. For many people are still in the region, in detention or in prison, waiting for a trial. We think it would be good to have an international mechanism. I believe that the prerequisite for more accountability and judgments is the proximity of evidence and witnesses. It is facilitated by such a process. Our approach is that we do not actively intend to bring IS terrorists to Sweden, but our main starting point is that these people should preferably be convicted of their crimes in the region, if possible. Sweden, in particular, is now actively working to try to increase international support for an international mechanism. I can say that political support at least seems to be growing. A few years ago there was very little support for this. Now more European countries are looking at the possibility of doing this. This is the first line of defence, which I think it is important to be clear in the debate. If we want accountability on a larger scale, the proximity to evidence, witnesses and the region is important. That is why we in Sweden are pushing for the possibility of looking at whether we can set up a tribunal or an international mechanism. As for Sweden, I read an article the other day. It was Swedish Radio that had a feature about how the prosecutors work today. It was about the war criminal prosecutor who has an increased readiness to work on the issue. Reena Devgun, coordinator of war Reena prosecutors, was interviewed about how to strengthen their resources there. It is also about the Police Authority and that you have good cooperation between the police, Säpo and the prosecutors. And it's about how to run several preliminary investigations today. Exactly who they are, I don't think you should go into here and now. Work is moving on. But what was most exciting, I think, was that she said: I think we will be working on this issue for a very long time to come. There is no limitation period for this type of crime. It's a very important signal. If you have committed this type of serious crime, internationally, there is no limitation period. If the prosecutor and the police find evidence of this type of crime, you can start preliminary investigations, and you can prosecute hopefully leading to convictions. This is therefore an important piece of work that we will have to do in Sweden. But, again, we shall also support the international efforts made to gather evidence. This is perhaps the conflict that is most documented so far in world history – with images and video material that can be used to judge people.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-71	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. It is true that this war may be the most documented. That is why I would like to come back to the questions, and I hope that I can get answers in the next round. Have any of the seven people referred to by the Government been IS supporters and convicted of travelling to the caliphate and somehow supported IS? If the answer is yes, I wonder: What crime classification was used, and what was the punishment? Does the government share my view that it is in any case an aid to crimes against humanity to join the IS and that it has made its way to the gigantic crime scene that the caliphate has been? In his answer, the Government says that he has the hope that the police and prosecutors will move forward in their investigations and be able to prosecute where justified. Then you might wonder when it can't be justified. In any case, however, I come to the question: What can the government do to ensure that the Government's hope can be fulfilled? Is there a need for more financial and human resources? Does the Government share my view that it is an important interest of society that it must not be long before prosecution begins by the so-called returnees, even if it is clear to the Government that the crimes will not be time-barred? The International Tribunal is a good thing, but I have a specific question: has the government consulted any government in the region to find out whether it would be willing to invite an international tribunal? I wonder, for example, whether there is a possibility of setting up a tribunal in the autonomous Kurdish region of Iraq. Does the government work for a tribunal designed to prosecute only IS supporters and not other criminals? The Government's return several times to the great difficulty of proof, which apparently led to the absence of both prosecutions and sentences and which also fattens the notion of impunity. Then I would like to ask: What are the difficulties in proof? They must depend on what it is that one intends to prove and what the Prosecution Authority considers to be criminal and what priorities police, prosecutors and security police do. We have heard several times that Säpo has very good knowledge of each of the IS supporters who have returned and where they are. Because of this, and because of the very large amount of information available in addition to that of the Government, it cannot reasonably be very difficult to provide sufficient evidence of aid to crimes against humanity. The government's intention is to prosecute as many as possible. Why not start with those cases where there is not much difficulty with proof, you might think.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-80	Mr President, I would like to It is important to point out that in Sweden it is prosecutors who start preliminary investigations. In cases of terrorist offences, it is Säpo who investigates the matter, and it is the P oli Authority that investigates cases relating to criminal offences of international law in general. This is not for the government to have any idea, but for the authorities to assess whether there is sufficient evidence to prosecute and to proceed to court and to be able to judge. This work must be done by the authorities. In Sweden, we have given these authorities more resources so that they have sufficient resources. They have gathered strength in their work on these issues. They are also working together today much more than they did in the past, which I think is a positive thing. We also have some domestic discussions where we look at whether the regulatory framework is properly designed. How can we provide evidence to international organisations and share the evidence that may exist in Sweden, and how can we effectively access international evidence? We do that work at home to facilitate this. We also give a great deal of support to the international organisations that gather evidence on the ground. I do not believe that it is my role as a member of the government to consider how the authorities carry out the test of evidence or to tell the authorities how to do it and whether it is sufficient for prosecution. This must be done by the authorities themselves; that is the legal order we have in Sweden. As far as legislation is concerned, there is one thing that we, in the Swedish Parliament, have wanted to do in addition to the changes that have already taken place, such as banning travel for terrorism and the financing of terrorism and looking at other parts of a strengthened terrorism law, as we have done in several parts. We wanted to go forward with the connection crime and the participation crime, but when the referral came to the Law Council they made a different assessment than what the investigator had claimed that the part dealing with participation would be contrary to the Swedish Constitution and the Constitution. We cannot, on the part of the government, make a proposal that we know is in breach of the Swedish constitution. That would be very unfortunate – then courts would not have to apply the legislation, and that would not be good. That is why we have discussed the way forward with the parties involved in the talks and agreements on terrorism. We have chosen to break out what has to do with dealings with terrorist organisations, and we have reworked this so that relations with a terrorist organisation become an independent crime. It will include, inter alia, persons who take up arms, ammunition, flammable or explosive goods, communication equipment, means of transport or other similar equipment, persons who provide premises or land to a terrorist organisation and persons who provide other similar support to a terrorist organisation. Criminal liability requires that the act is designed to promote, strengthen or support the terrorist organisation. Associates – travel, financing and so on – are also included in this legislation. The referral deadline is 2 July. What we are proposing is an extension of Swedish legislation. I see that there is broad political support for this way forward. What has just to do with relations must, of course, be tightened up legislation on, and we are moving forward with such a proposal. It's out for a referral now. I hope that we will be able to deal with this in Parliament this autumn and that it will enter into force in early 2020.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-91	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. This is very good – legislation on dealing with terrorist groups should have been in place a long time ago, so it is good that it comes into place. At the same time, I am concerned, Mr President. The government speaks hotly for something to come and that is good. However, there are a total of about 300 who have travelled and 150 who have come home. They're here. I cannot imagine that the Government imagines that these people will be flying aircraft to a possible tribunal at any time in the future. The question to which I have sought answers here today is: how does the Government view the legislation that exists? The Government refers to seven people. What about: Have any of these been condemned for traveling to the caliphate and for somehow supporting IS? I would very much like to have an answer to that question, and I believe that large parts of the Swedish people also want it. Does the government share the view that it is, in any case, an aid to crimes against humanity to join the IS and to get to the gigantic crime scene? Now many say that they have cooked or driven, but isn't it – since they have been at the crime scene – that they can be sentenced for aiding in crimes against humanity? This is also a question. We must discuss in this House what will happen in the future. However, we must also take on what is closest to now, namely the people who are in Sweden. They can also be a very tangible threat to Sweden – I am thinking of the role of Minister of State as Minister of the Interior. How does the government view the issues that I have lined up, which are about using the existing legislation to prosecute the 150 people that exist in Sweden right now?
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-99	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to say that we are doing international work to bring about an international tribunal. We have no plans to bring IS terrorists home. They will be convicted of their crimes. They should preferably be prosecuted and sentenced in the region, with proximity to evidence and witnesses and with the conditions for moving forward. In Sweden we have a court that has a broad mandate and can judge people for crimes. The crimes for which persons have so far been convicted, linked to this conflict, concern offensive poses and photography in connection with very terrible events in the region as well as executions, aggravated assaults and crimes of international law in general. In Sweden, we have also seen examples of people being sentenced for financing terrorism and – of course – terrorism, and people being sentenced to prison for public calls to finance terrorist crimes. It is therefore several different parts of this that people have been convicted of in Swedish courts, both in the case of crimes committed in Sweden and in the case of crimes committed in the region. As I noted before, the Prosecution Authority says they're prepared for further investigations. They are conducting preliminary investigations today, and there is no limitation period for this type of crime. There must be no impunity for this type of terrible crime. We will hunt these people down and hold them to account in cases where we can find evidence.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-103	Mr President, I would like to David Josefsson has asked me how I and the Government feel about initiating a review of the need and design of a regulation regarding ticket sales for commercial passenger trains in accordance with the Swedish Competition Authority's recommendation.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-105	Access to efficient and well-functioning public transport is a top priority for the government. Commercial rail transport is part of public transport, but the government does not believe that commercial rail transport should be handled differently from other public transport services. It is a priority to enable the integration of ticket sales for all public transport into an independent national ticketing system. One of the points of the January Agreement – a substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals – deals with this very issue. The January agreement states that a national ticketing system for all public transport throughout Sweden will be introduced from 2022. At present, this issue is being prepared in the Government Office.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-107	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. It is positive that the Government is clear that access to efficient and well-functioning public transport is a very high priority for the Government. I also believe that, in an efficient and well-functioning market, there is free and fair competition between the various players, Mr President, most of them can sign up. However, despite the liberalisation of rail passenger transport in Sweden, the monopoly is not effectively abolished as a large part of all ticket purchases are made through SJ's sales channels. It is a dominant position that was built up before the liberalisation of rail transport. Unfortunately, only some operators are allowed to sell their tickets through these channels. It is only traffic operators that SJ considers complementary and promotes SJ's sales of its own tickets that are admitted. Or in more detail: Actors who represent too much competition against SJ are not allowed in. MTR Express and Saga Rail are two of the operators that are not admitted, and they therefore notified SJ's actions to the Competition Authority last year. We know that commercial train operators trying to get in find the situation difficult, but we do not know how many operators have found the market so difficult that they have chosen not to establish traffic in Sweden. From SJ's strictly business perspective, it may be a sensible decision to exclude certain actors, but from a societal perspective it is completely wrong, I mean. SJ is not just any actor. It is a state-owned company run out of a monopoly, Mr President.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-114	The Government said in its reply to me that the 73-point programme states that a national ticketing system for the whole of public transport should be introduced. When I read the JÖK, Mr President, I see it as a measure aimed above all at regional public transport systems, where there are different ticketing systems today. My question is about commercial train operators who are not part of regional public transport and who want to see a competitive neutrality in access to SJ's sales channels. Mr President, I would like to Should I interpret the Government's response a little that the Swedish Competition Authority's recommendation for a review for commercial train operators will be part of the task that will be presented to introduce a national ticketing system?
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-117	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate not only the commitment but also that David Josefsson chooses to see the issue from a societal perspective. One can of course see the issue from a strictly market point of view, that is to say, look at different companies and the behaviour of their operators. But the starting point when we talk about the need for a national ticketing system is precisely to see it from the traveller's point of view and from the point of view of society. It is about finding what benefits a simplified and increased climate-smart travel. This is the starting point both for the different ticketing systems of regional operators and for other types of ticketing systems. The answer, of course, is that we will come back when we have prepared clearly how to define the mission. But there is no doubt that we want to see a national ticketing system. The matter has also been dealt with in the Riksdag. I note that David Josefsson himself has written a motion on the matter. It was rejected by a united transport committee, I remember, just like other motions. This is because the government is now taking the initiative, and I believe that the Committee on Transport and Tourism is satisfied with this. We will have to maintain a dialogue on this issue, and then we will have to come back when the government has finished preparing it.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-121	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister, although there may not have been much clarification. I'm moderate, and I believe in a free market. But I also realise that there are structural problems that sometimes need to be regulated in order to create a level playing field. SJ's de facto monopoly on ticket sales is one of those. When other countries have liberalised the rail passenger travel market, ticket sales have been handled separately, for example in Norway where NSB's sales channels were reportedly placed in a separate company. The commercial train companies that the Swedish Competition Authority has collected information from in its investigation, and which have gained access to SJ's online channels, sell the vast majority of their tickets through these channels. It says something about the power of the matter. Nevertheless, I take it positive that the government is prepared to include this issue in an investigation into a national ticketing system, but that raises two concerns, Mr President. One is that commercial train operators risk becoming an odd bird in a ticket system built mainly for regional public transport. There is a risk of creating more bureaucracy than the one that already exists when the problem is actually that competition is not perceived as fair between the players. The second concern I have is that the investigation will not be completed until next year and that a national ticketing system will not be introduced until 1 January 2022, according to the JÖK:en. It is a well-defined question whether commercial train operators are at risk of becoming involved in a complex and lengthy investigation into a national ticketing system. It is an investigation that, despite all the good intentions of the Government, can actually be delayed – this at the same time as several players warn of the current market situation, where the number of players who have dared to enter the market is limited. The Government itself said in its reply that access to efficient and well-functioning public transport is a high priority for the government. Therefore, I believe that the government should urgently work to create a good competitive environment for commercial train operators and thus increase the capacity and robustness of the Swedish rail network.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-128	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind you of the history of the liberalisation of rail transport and the companyisation of SJ, David Josefsson. It happened a long time ago. Both moderate-led and social-democratic-led governments obviously have not initiated the process of ticketing. This is where we do it, under my leadership, in the January agreement. I'm pleased with that. This is important for us to increase climate-smart travel and make it easier for travellers who want easy access and access to tickets when they want to travel collectively. David Josefsson raises a number of questions and concerns. Here's where he'll make up his mind. Either David Josefsson thinks it's good that we initiate a process with a national ticketing system, or he starts from the beginning to raise a number of fears and see obstacles and problems. I think it is a good thing that we are finally starting a process after a long time. It's a long-awaited trip. I know that many parts of the country, regionally, have tried to find smart and good solutions for regional actors. But finding national solutions would be incredibly positive in many people. Let us now focus on this, so that we can prepare the directives as quickly as possible and ensure that there is an investigation in place. It will benefit SJ, MTR and the regional public transport authorities that there will be a simplified and good ticketing system – provided that this can be initiated. The government is preparing the question. We will present the directives when they are ready, and the issue is an important part of the January agreement. I am pleased that we are now paying attention and taking action on this issue. I note, in conclusion, that the Competition Authority itself chooses not to investigate the notification, which it would otherwise have planned to do. You send a letter. I suppose it is because it is being seen that there is a political process going on. The government is now taking the initiative to solve what I believe citizens perceive as a social problem that needs to be addressed.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-133	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Basically, it is positive that the Government takes this issue seriously. Demand for train travel is high in Sweden for several reasons. On the one hand, there is the obvious reason, namely environmental and climate reasons, and, on the other hand, the reason that trains are a smooth and time-efficient way of travelling. I notice this as a Gothenburger. The train is a competitive alternative to both cars and flights and with horse lengths the most environmentally friendly alternative to get to Stockholm. Therefore, there is also a great need to expand capacity. An easy way to create space for more travellers is to enable increased competition on equal and fair terms. In this way innovation and development are stimulated, and different actors can find different business opportunities that together complement each other and create more choice for travellers. However, equal and fair conditions are also needed for all actors and the barriers currently in place to establish themselves on the rail market are being dismantled. Nevertheless, it is positive that the Government mentions an independent national ticketing system in its answer, although I believe that this issue is actually more about regional public transport than commercial train operators. I think we can discuss implementation further. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for a positive answer, and I hope that we will move forward on this issue.
i-fbd29bac2d10d24c-139	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that David Josefsson thinks it is positive that we are taking these initiatives. Of course, access to tickets is an important part of increasing train travel. Another important aspect, of course, is investing. We are now investing SEK 700 billion in infrastructure. We are making the biggest railway effort in modern times. After years of underinvestment, major renovations are now being made in the Swedish rail system and new construction. Not least in David Josefsson's own constituency, Gothenburg – Borås is now pointed out as an important part. That's how we're gonna see it. We need to invest in the railways after years of underinvestment. Both companies and individuals want to ride more trains. Let us ensure that we make this possible, for the sake of the climate and for efficient travel around the country and across borders. I would like to take this opportunity to thank David Josefsson for the interpellation debate and wish him a pleasant summer.
