i-a7130641dfeca5c2-5	Madam President, I would like Staffan Eklöf has asked me whether I intend to allow the expansion of wind power in the three sensitive environments of Södra Midsjöbanken, Stora Middelgrund and Finngrundet. He has asked me if the climate targets are superior conservation of natural habitats and species for the government. He has also asked me whether I intend to ensure that the climate benefits of emission reductions in a national and global perspective compared to other alternatives are calculated and then weighed off against other values before decisions are taken with reference to climate benefits in order to use an area for energy extraction within the marine plans. Finally, Staffan Eklöf has asked me whether I intend to ensure in the work on seaplanes that the actual climate benefit linked to the probability of reducing Swedish emissions leading to reduced global emissions is estimated before decisions are made with reference to the effect of being an example. As the questions are raised with the seaplane work in focus, I would like to start by commenting on the seaplans. There are many interests that need to be shared about the sea. Maritime planning highlights all interests in its use and analyses, in order to provide guidance on the most appropriate purpose or purposes in different parts of the sea. Maritime planning weighs between many different interests. Sweden's marine plans will contribute to long-term sustainable development by combining economic, social and environmental objectives. The plans shall provide guidance to authorities and municipalities in the planning and examination of claims for use of the area. The Maritime and Water Authority is responsible for developing proposals for marine plans and has consulted widely with relevant stakeholders in that process, where it appears that in some cases there are conflicting interests. The proposals will be submitted to the Government at the end of this year, whereupon a careful preparation will be made in the Government Office for the decision of the Government. I cannot precede the government's forthcoming position on ocean plans. In this context, I can mention that the Government Office is currently dealing with a case of a planned wind farm at Södra Midsjöbanken. The case concerns an application for a permit under the Swedish Economic Zone Act to construct and operate the planned wind power park. The matter is not directly related to the Government's forthcoming preparation of proposals for sea plans. As the matter is pending, I cannot precede the government's examination of this particular matter. Nor can I precede other possible future trials in individual cases concerning wind power parks in the current offshore banks. Madam President, I would like The M iljömålssystem is the backbone of Swedish environmental policy, and the environmental quality objectives describe the state of the Swedish environment that environmental work will lead to. The Government is committed to reaching the Generation objective, the 16 environmental quality targets and the intermediate targets, both decided by the Riksdag and those decided by the Government. In addition, we also have the Climate Act that governs the Government's work with the environmental quality objective Limited climate impact. The climate target states that, in accordance with the Paris Agreement, the government will operate both nationally and internationally to limit the global average temperature increase to well below two degrees and that efforts are being made to keep the increase to one and a half degrees. Finally, I would like to highlight the fact that there are generally great synergies between climate targets and other environmental objectives. Science has repeatedly made us aware of the terrible effects of global warming, not only on humans but also on the natural environment and biodiversity. As recently as last week, the IPCC released a report highlighting the impact of climate change on the seas and coastal areas. The scientific situation underlines the importance of working actively to reduce greenhouse gases in order to achieve all environmental objectives.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-13	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have asked questions about the exploitation of certain offshore areas for wind power expansion and how the government will enable reasonable balances to be struck between climate targets and biodiversity targets in the biologically rich seabeds and offshore banks. Good decisions require an analysis of the impact and balance between different values. The Minister went into this in his reply. The background is that the environments on which offshore wind power can be built – foundations and banks – are also particularly important environments for many animals. Södra Midsjöbanken, for example, is a wintering area for a very large part of northern Europe's algal birds, which according to Artdatabanken's red list is a strongly threatened species. Turns out algal birds avoid wind turbines. They also find it difficult to find an alternative bank. An extension of wind power there is likely to have a very serious impact on northern Europe's albacore stocks. Other birds may also be affected. The site is also a very important rejuvenation site for the Baltic porpoises. This is a hard-pressed tribe. The tums have a very limited genetic exchange with porpoises in other waters and must therefore be seen as a separate population for the Baltic Sea. The number of individuals in the Baltic Sea stock has never been as low as it was in the last measurement. Construction work for a wind farm risks disrupting the regeneration for many years. The Minister's reply shows that the Government does not know how it will address the issue of wind power expansion at Södra Midsjöbanken, and I can understand that the Government cannot give prior notice. However, it will be a horror to follow this. However, the answer shows nothing about how the government will assess the climate benefits of seaplane work and nothing about whether the government will compare this climate benefit with the climate benefits of other efforts for the climate that can instead be made. Nothing is clear about how climate benefits can be weighed against other values, such as habitats and species conservation. Finally, there is no answer as to whether the government is at all interested in trying to quantify the global climate gain as a result of Sweden acting as an example. If decisions are taken to destroy habitats and jeopardise the survival of species with reference to such a precursor theory, at least an estimate must be made, otherwise short-term opportunities to strike a balance because in that case everything is automatically over-drum phase. The lack of this overall view makes it more difficult for me to understand, not least because it is clear from the basis of the seaplane work that the assessment of the size of the climate benefit is superficial, as I see it, that no comparison has been made with other alternatives and that the balance with biodiversity is not made in a transparent way. However, the Authority notes that irreversible damage will occur if this is done. An estimate of the expected global climate benefit of Sweden acting as an example has not been made. The authorities have certainly acted in line with their mission and should probably not be criticized. But climate benefits must also be valued and quantified, as other benefits. If this work is to be done, it will be the task of the government. The government has to do it. All I'm asking is for the government to tell me how it intends to strike the balance. This is about working methods and not about the finished result. The government should reasonably know whether and how it plans to take these considerations into account.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-23	Madam President, I would like I thank Staffan Eklöf for an interesting and certainly very important question. We now have for the first time proposals for sea plans. They have not yet been submitted to the government, to be pointed out, so it is too early to comment on the content of the sea plans. But it will be a major qualitative step forward to put opposing interests against each other for the first time in a common maritime planning for the socially, economically and ecologically sustainable use of our seas. That is something that has unfortunately been missing in the past. There, different interests must be weighed against each other: fishing, wind power, protection of biodiversity, agriculture, forestry, tourism and all other industries that have an interest in using the seas and coasts. We can all share the desire for full quantification of benefits and risks, but we must also be able to share the recognition that putting everyone's interests on the table and identifying target conflicts in maritime plans is a major step forward. The government takes a very positive view of this. When it comes to assessing the expected global climate benefit of Sweden as an example of climate change, I would like to emphasise that all countries that are signatories to the Paris Agreement – and among them Sweden – are committed to reducing emissions and trying to cope with as low a global temperature increase as possible. We will stop as close as possible to one and a half degrees of temperature increase. These are national commitments, and it is up to all parties to the Paris Agreement to do so. So it is not that we have freedom of choice here and can say that we should reduce elsewhere with the 60 million tonnes of emissions that Sweden stands for and continue as we usually do within our own borders. There we have an international commitment. The second thing Staffan Eklöf asks about is how we can assume that we set an example and that others follow. We have a widely accepted climate law in the Swedish parliament. Thanks to this, a lot of activity has started within Sweden's borders, including the Hybrid initiative, which deals with how the Swedish heavy steel industry will switch to completely new technology and use hydrogen instead of coal in the blast furnaces or in a completely different type of furnace. This is an initiative that also has the potential to export a technology that will significantly reduce global emissions. I would really like to underline this. I was in New York last week and presented this initiative to an international leadership group, and there are already other major steel companies that have joined this. If we can do this, as I believe, it is about a climate benefit of just under 10% of the earth's emissions. Here the Swedish energy agreement is absolutely crucial; with it we will have very good access to cheap electricity needed in the hydrogen transformation. Biodiversity is, as I said, an objective that interacts with and has a synergy with climate objectives. We need to be very vigilant there so that we do not destroy ecosystems.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-28	Madam President, I would like It is very good that opposing interests are being pitted against each other. However, in order for it to have an effect, interests must be properly described. That's where my concern lies. The Minister mentions Hybrit, a very good project that can have a global impact. Then there are other investments in Sweden that I think will have zero effect on the global climate. It illustrates that it can be very different depending on what bets you make. Then there can be very different results in terms of secondary effects such as biodiversity depending on where you do it. It is all these balances that are important. The question then is what the balance looks like. It would be a dysfunctional balance if you weighed natural values against wind turbines typically being good for the climate because they produce renewable electricity. A balancing system must be able to make a difference in results, for example between wind power expansion at Södra Midsjöbanken and on land in the Piteå area, and between an inefficient strategy and an effective strategy. How does the government intend to do this? In the environmental code, there is not so much leadership for the government, as I see it. You could lean on 3 chapters. Paragraph 1, which states: Preference shall be given to uses which entail good management from a general point of view. However, these areas are suitable both for wind power and for the conservation of habitats and species. What is most sustainable: reducing CO2 emissions or saving these environments? You can only know if you can answer the questions that are in our interpellation. The same problem applies to Chapter 3. 10 §. You have to know what you compare. You need to know the global climate benefit of exploitation. There is a need to compare it with other alternatives, such as Hybrid, and to balance it with the benefits of biodiversity. The government does not get around the issues in the interpellation and must solve them – admittedly not right now, but I want to hear how the government thinks and whether the government attaches sufficient importance to these issues. This is a bit technical, but the basic question that I and perhaps others with me wonder about is: Will the high natural values of habitats and species be spared, will they be sacrificed for great benefit to climate change or will they be sacrificed to no avail at all? This must be possible to answer. Because of the great uncertainty as to whether or not wind power installations in Swedish seas provide a global climate benefit, we Swedish democrats believe that we should adopt a cautious approach and not make exploitations for climate purposes if they irrevocably damage natural values and severely decimate already threatened species.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-35	Madam President, I would like I would like to underline what I said at the outset. These are pending cases. The government cannot comment on individual cases such as the management of the planned wind farm at Södra Midsjöbanken. We are waiting for a decision from the County Administrative Board regarding the impact on Natura 2000 sites and Natura 2000 permits. We will have to return when the County Administrative Board has made its decision on the matter. In terms of being an example, the government has decided on the goal that we should be a fossil-free welfare state. If Sweden can move towards fossil freedom and show that it goes hand in hand with having a strengthened welfare and economic development, I am absolutely convinced that it will inspire others to follow. We need front countries. We have a very serious situation, as the United Nations Panel on Research and Development (IPCC) has stated a number of times in extremely thorough and thorough reports. The last one came last week. It's about the impact on the oceans and the cryosphere. We see an extremely serious effect on our seas of the emissions that have already occurred. Heating, acidification and loss of oxygen in marine environments will unfortunately cause major changes in the composition of species and ecosystems. I believe that the Baltic Sea will be affected most significantly by the lack of oxygen, acidification, desiccation and increasingly warmer water. Here we have a very serious situation. In this context, I am very pleased that the Environmental Objectives Committee is currently working on the marine environment target linked to the climate target. We have already appointed the Environment Committee last year to work on this so that we have a better analysis, which is exactly what the honourable Member is asking for. High natural values and ecosystems are something that is extremely important for us to mitigate the effects of climate change. The government is fully aware that resilient and viable ecosystems may be the best defence we have to reduce the effects of climate change. We need to take a very cautious approach here. The advantages of particularly offshore wind are, in addition to being carbon-free, that it is blowing more constantly at sea. That is why it is a more reliable and sustainable energy source. It is therefore of interest to look at suitable places at sea. This work will be more systematic in relation to the sea plans. However, we have also given our authorities the task of looking at which areas are the most suitable for this. Of course, we will prioritise protecting our endangered species and ecosystems while at the same time delivering on the historic task of transforming our society into fossil freedom.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-42	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. If we reach climate targets by sacrificing natural values, I do not believe that we can serve as an example to the world. The Minister addresses the IPCC report of last week. I agree that this is a matter of urgency, but it is a matter of doing the right thing. I would like to refer to an article in Nature that came about two weeks ago. It shows a graph that says a lot. It is about CO2 emissions over time and shown per country. It can be seen that the EU is reducing its emissions. The United States is more or less stable, and China is increasing dramatically. China is increasing dramatically from an already high level. Maybe they account for about a quarter of the emissions, it looked like in the graph. China uses more than half of the world's coal right now. Any climate strategy that does not include China having to reduce its emissions dramatically and quickly is doomed to failure as I see it. It's a matter of thinking about it, and we have an idea about it. Then I can find it interesting that Ibrahim Baylan in Sunday's Agenda used clear SD rhetoric on this issue. We seem to have an impact in this area too. Despite the answers, I note that the Minister sees the climate benefits of wind power from the perspective that wind power typically provides climate benefits and that the government's guiding principle is the theory of Sweden as a forerunner, without trying to quantify the effect or assess the likelihood of it to work. The government cannot answer what decisions it will take. It's okay. I think that the government does not really have a clear picture of how the climate benefit can be measured and quantified, but refers to the future before it is weighed off against biodiversity. The government cannot really explain how the balance is to be achieved.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-49	Madam President, I would like On the climate issue, it is very interesting to participate in international conferences and hear the different rhetoric from different countries. I would like all of us on earth to be able to divide into about ten million parts. Everyone would look themselves in the mirror and say: We only account for a small fraction of 1 percent of the earth's emissions, and we do nothing. That is how it sounds from states in Germany, regions in China, small countries in Africa and, finally, states in the United States. No one has to do anything. We have to get to work, dig where we stand and do our homework. Unfortunately, Sweden accounts for very high emissions per capita. We're at the top of the world. With a good economy that we have, with an offensive and good environmental and climate policy at its bottom and an industry that wants to be involved in the transition, we have the very best conditions for making the transition. I really want to guarantee the honourable Member that we are pressing China and the United States and helping developing countries to make their transition. We doubled our contribution to the Green Climate Fund, as we announced last week. We did this to help the poorest countries make their transition. Today we have 80 billion already in the pipeline that already decided on investments in wind power. It really is a receipt that the energy agreement is delivering. But we will of course and we can preserve sensitive environments and biodiversity. It is also our lifeline for us to manage climate change as well as possible.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-54	Madam President, I would like Staffan Eklöf has asked the Minister for Rural Development what the government is doing to comply with Parliament's announcement to achieve modernised and technology-neutral genetic engineering legislation. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. G genetically modified organisms are regulated at EU level. Legislation is harmonised to ensure that the same requirements apply in all EU Member States and is based on the precautionary principle. The aim of the rules is to protect human and animal health and the environment while ensuring the effective functioning of the internal market. The legislation covers organisms whose genetic material has been modified in a non-natural manner and which are intentionally introduced into the environment. Where a risk assessment excludes adverse effects, a GMO may be authorised to be placed on the market. This examination is carried out at EU level and the decision applies in all EU Member States. The use of genetically modified organisms with containment measures that prevent their release into the environment, such as research in a laboratory or use in a greenhouse, is generally not subject to authorisation. Madam President, I would like On 25 July 2018, the Court of Justice of the European Union gave judgment in a preliminary ruling on so-called new techniques for genetic modification. The judgment means that a specific type of new genetic engineering is not exempted from EU legislation in this area and is therefore subject to authorisation requirements. The judgment guides all EU Member States. D a 4 April 2019, Parliament addressed an announcement to the government that legislation on genetically modified organisms should be modified and make s technology neutral. The announcement is currently being prepared in the Government Office. Since GMOs are regulated at EU level, action should be taken at this level. The Presidency of the Council of the European Union has proposed that the Council invite the European Commission to produce a study on the status of new gene technologies under Union legislation. The study shall take into account the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The proposal requires the European Commission to submit the study by 30 April 2021. The government is in favour of the proposal and supports a decision to ask the Commission to initiate a study and to include a cost analysis. The government is awaiting the outcome of this study.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-59	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. First, a little background: Last Tuesday, the scientific journal Nature read that a new fungal disease that destroys banana plantations has now arrived in America. The title was: CRISPR may be the only hope of the banana. CRISPR is a new genre editing technique. All the bananas we buy at the store are sensitive to the fungus. It is not possible to refine bananas in the traditional way with cross-breeds because it is sterile and clone-bred. Bananas, as we know them, will disappear in due course. Of course, we will have other bananas, but the possible alternatives do not have the same qualities. Exchange, storage and taste are worse. You can solve this thing with genetic modification by inserting a resistance gene. However, such plants are very difficult to obtain authorisation for within the EU. Then one could use one of the new genre editing methods, which only alters an existing gene a little in a predestined place-- maybe just in a single DNA base. It is a controlled mutation, and mutations already exist in so many of our food crops. Such GM plants are not considered to be genetically modified in several non-EU countries. Promising experiments are also already in place for banana resistance. But look, you can't do that either. In 2018, the Court of Justice of the European Union made the interpretation that such plants should be treated as hard as ordinary genetically modified plants. This means long periods of time, high costs and a very uncertain result. This is just one example. Today's legislation on genetic engineering is very outdated. It has been overtaken by technological developments, and it is affected by political stalemate. The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union also means that two plants with exactly the same molecular change will be regulated in different ways depending on whether it is a new mutation method or an old mutation method that has been used. Since they cannot be distinguished from each other, it is very difficult to know whether a feed load or a seed batch should be regulated or not. The legislation must therefore be fundamentally revised, in accordance with Parliament's announcement of last spring. My question today was about what the government is doing to realise the mission of this Parliament's announcement. The answer was to support asking the Commission to initiate a study on the status of new gene technologies under Union legislation. And then the government will sit and wait until 30 April 2021! At the same time, we have already received an opinion from the European Court of Justice on precisely the status of technicians. The investigation is not going to review the court's judgment, is it? After all, we have received a response, and that answer shows that the legislation does not work and that this will have economic, health and environmental consequences for both consumers and trade. In addition, it is an announcement that Parliament gave the government to work to change the legislation, not to study it. The same spirit can be found in the Netherlands initiative – the initiative that Sweden has supported. I think that the proposal put forward by the Minister seems to mean even backing from what Sweden has already supported. The very least effort that may be required from the government is that it at least acts in order for the decision in the Council to follow the Dutch letter. Sweden's position must be that the legislation should be amended. The call to the Commission must be clear on this point. Then the government should take a whole series of other measures, and not wait.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-68	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Staffan Eklöf, for the question! As I said, this is a piece of legislation that is common to the European Union. It is both a matter of protecting the health of European citizens and of animals and of the environment as a whole. It is also a competition issue for the EU's internal market. Here we see clear benefits in being able to reach agreement at European level. Just as I believe the honourable Member is extremely aware, this is a highly controversial issue among the Member States of the European Union. It has taken four years to renegotiate only part of the GMO legislation. The government believes that the legislation should be technology neutral; that is the government's position. In view of the very hard locks we have seen on the GMO issue in the EU for a long time, I think that the interpeller should consider the issue and assess the prospects for success, from the point of view of the interpeller, in a complete revision of GMO legislation at EU level. We know that there are very different views between the Member States of the European Union. Now we have a judgment in the European Court of Justice saying that the new technologies should also be covered by GMO legislation. The government shares the view that this will present major difficulties in the implementation of the legislation as it may be difficult to monitor and control which organisms have been treated with the new genetic technology. It is precisely such a study that the Finnish Presidency is proposing in order to be more clearly able to illustrate the types of challenges we face as a result of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. With regard to the Dutch proposal, Sweden has said that we think it is good and important to examine and discuss the issue. However, we believe that the most important thing now is that we have a good factual basis which the study proposed by the Finnish Presidency can illustrate. We have therefore supported calling on the Commission to produce such a study. At the end of the day, this is EU-wide legislation. It is the Commission that has the legislative initiative and needs to take such a decision. The government believes that the ambiguities brought about by the EU Court ruling and new gene technologies are an important issue to draw the Commission's attention to. That is why we expect it to be a priority for the Commission to discuss in the future.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-74	Madam President and the Minister. Yeah, it's hard enough. It's not easy. Issues decided at EU level are difficult; it is like wearing a straitjacket. With regard to the study referred to by the Minister, which should highlight the difficulties, it must be borne in mind that the ENGL, the network of laboratories, has already carried out a study which shows the difficulties in being able to distinguish between the different plants. I suppose it's the consequences of the whole thing that will now be highlighted. But I don't know, but I guess it's based on what the minister says. However, I would think that the consequences are well known in any case. The Minister knows that the European Commission has in the past drawn the answer to this question? The Commission would, many years ago, provide information as to whether or not the new genre editing techniques are covered by the Directive. Sweden waited a long time for the answer – so long that the Swedish authorities had to resolve the matter in view of the requirements of Swedish administrative law. The Commission never replied. For almost three years, the EU lived without a common interpretation of the directive. It could therefore be different in different Member States. Then came the judicial decision that we have spoken about, and it was not the Commission that took hold of the matter. The verdict surprised everyone. It was unusually opposed to the opinion of the Advocate General, the interpretation of the Swedish authority and the understanding that existed in the scientific community. The judgment showed that the directive had to be revised, but the Commission has not done anything since. The European Commission is therefore strongly opposed to deciding on questions of interpretation regarding modern plant breeding methods. It is referred to as sensitive, and it has been done in all times. As the Minister says, we do not want to open up for revision. So waiting is not an option. Instead, the government must draw up a plan setting out the dates by which results are expected and when other initiatives are needed. Find out the views of the other Member States, create alliances and come up with solutions that satisfy the skeptics! Initiate meetings with the Commission! The government must be creative and active. Finally, when it comes to whether this can be a success or not, or whether it can even strike back, I believe that many Member States are concerned about technological developments and the decision of the European Court of Justice and are concerned not least about trade. There's a window now. Open it!
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-81	Madam President, I would like We can have slightly different views on whether the EU is a straitjacket or an enabler for us to live in a world where we have open and free trade and where we can also address cross-border environmental problems and dangers. We know that precisely with regard to the possible transboundary spread of different species and the concerns of different EU Member States, this is a good way to address people's concerns and the real danger of certain genetically modified species spreading into nature with unforeseen and unwanted consequences. In fact, the biodiversity we discussed in the previous interpellation debate may be threatened when species resistant to, for example, certain pesticides spread and take over. On this particular issue, we need the European Union and cross-border cooperation more than ever. I do not think that any Member State will benefit from having its very own positions on this, at least not if it wants to allow GMOs with less restrictions. As for the type of study we want to see, it is not about the biological or scientific difference between these organisms and others that has been developed through more natural plant breeding. This is about the difficulty of implementing GMO legislation and how it can be complied with. We see that there are major question marks following the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and that is why we believe it is appropriate to produce such a study. We see it as the initiative that the interpellier is calling for. We need to take this step before we can take other political initiatives where we do not see that it is fully transparent. First, we need to see whether it is appropriate or necessary to open up the legislation to revision. There are still many questions, and it is important that we really have a proper basis. It was the European Court of Justice that decided that this should be classified as other GMOs under GMO legislation, just like other GMO products. Then we need to have a more thorough analysis of what it means for the implementation of the directive.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-85	Madam President, I would like Now it is probably not the case that these cases need to be decided at European level. That is not really the point of discussion, but I can only say that there can be trade agreements. The United States is not part of the Union, but it is still possible to trade with them. It is possible to steer matters of this kind. In addition, I would like to say that there are no known examples of the spread and environmental impact of genetically modified plants. However, to go to the core issues of the case, the study to be carried out by the Commission, which the government wants to support and considers sufficient as a measure, is clearly about the difficulties in implementing the conclusions reached by the Court. I claim that they are more or less known and have been discussed. Of course you can study it too, but you can't just do it and you can't wait. It does not comply with the announcement, because there it is about working to change the legislation. Much more can be done, not least to bring about revised legislation. I have already mentioned a number of examples of measures that can be taken. In addition, in the meantime, a process can be launched to use the possibility already provided for in the Directive for simplified procedures. Create a simplified procedure for the simplest genre editing techniques so that you get an opening for certain uses, and don't just put it in a desktop drawer! I would urge the Minister to comply with Parliament's announcement to promote modernised and technology-neutral legislation.
i-HaaRyhzxzonotYu11E88H9	Madam President, I would like Again thanks to Staff an Eklöf for the question! This is, as I said, an issue in which the European Commission is the owner of the right of initiative at EU level in relation to legislation. Then the Member States can make requests to the Commission, which the Commission can choose to follow or not. Normally, the Commission tends to be sensitive to this, but at the same time we know that there is very strong opposition to opening up GMO legislation from a number of large Member States. The government's assessment is that the Finnish Presidency's proposal for a study to illustrate whether it is possible to comply with GMO legislation with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union on new genetic engineering is a good and appropriate first step. Going out in full storm on this issue and thinking that one should be able to convert EU Member States without taking the proper steps that can pave the way for another type of discussion, the government does not consider a way forward. I think it is quite obvious if you follow the history of this. The last legislative amendment implemented took four years to negotiate, and then it was just a change in part of the legislation and not a complete revision. Should you open up to revision – it is also something that the interpellier needs to think about – it is also not at all certain that you end up in legislation that is desirable from the point of view of the interpellier. There are very strong opinions on this issue.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-92	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me whether it is reasonable that the right of deduction for sponsorship is based on a law's market valuation and whether I intend to take any initiative to achieve a more equal sponsorship. Of course, sponsorship is the practice of a company providing financial support for an activity of a sporting, cultural or otherwise public interest nature. The right of deduction for sponsorship is assessed according to general rules. What determines whether a deduction may be made is whether the financial contribution is provided in return and what it consists of. If, for example, a company sponsoring a sports team receives match tickets that its employees then use, it is considered a salary benefit, and the company may deduct the salary cost. If no compensation is given, sponsorship is considered a gift, and for gifts a company cannot make deductions. It is a fundamental principle of the Swedish tax system. The question mentioned by Lotta Finstorp arises primarily in sponsorship where companies receive compensation in the form of advertising and marketing. In such cases, a valuation of the counter-performance is carried out and the value of the counter-compensation is proportionate to the financial support. It is therefore not a market valuation of the sport team as such that should be done, but the crucial thing is the value that marketing creates for the company. Lotta Finstorp mentions football in particular in her question. This summer's world championship in France was a success. Unfortunately, Sweden lost to the Netherlands in the semifinals. However, it was gratifying that over 2 million Swedes should have seen the match on TV, because with a larger audience the commercial value of marketing through women's football increases. A more equal sport is a clear priority for the government. However, the general and clear nature of tax rules is an important part of a functioning tax system.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-98	Madam President, I would like I have written this interpellation as a follow-up to the answer I received during a Question Time 2016. I then put the question to the Minister of Finance whether the current tax rules put companies wishing to sponsor women's sports at a disadvantage. The statement I received from the Minister was that this is a consequence that has not been desired by tax legislation. She would therefore immediately go back to the Ministry of Finance and ask her officials to take a closer look at this. Of course, I am interested in what has happened and if something has changed. If we look back in time 100 or perhaps 50 years, we see that a lot has happened in terms of equality both in society and in sport. The number of active girls and women has increased. There are more women representatives on boards even within the sports movement, and the distribution has become more fair. But there's still a lot to do. In 2019, the Union has examined player's wages, where eight out of ten male footballers earn over $5,000 a month, while eight out of ten women's players earn less than $5,000 a month. The Swedish Sports Federation writes about sport on equal terms: The Swedish Sports Federation wants women and men to have the same power to shape sport and their participation in the sports movement. Equal sport is a prerequisite for successful sport development. It does not benefit democracy, justice, efficiency and development to reward one half of the population in the first place. Research as well as people's individual experiences, suggest that gender equality promotes development both for organisations and individuals. ..................................................... The Swedish Sports Federation has gender equality goals that they work towards and so on, and it is about resources having to be allocated according to the same principles for men and women. Then the question arises which I would like to put to the Minister for Finance: how is this to be done in concrete terms? After all, we all know that financial resources are also power and that one can take the place – even when it comes to the sports movement. Increased equality is spelled financial equal incentives. Johan R Norberg, Professor of Sports Science and Investigator at the Centre for Sports Research, says that in the Drotts Movement everything has to gain from the distribution of power, influence and resources more equally. In my opinion and in many women's sports, today's rules contribute to an unequal sponsorship between women's and men's sports. The Swedish Tax Agency's guidelines have the effect that companies wishing to sponsor women's sports are disadvantaged when women's sports generally have a lower market value – or, as the Minister describes it, when the return is less valued. This has Elitsboll Dam, an interest organization for the two highest leagues in Sweden, highlighted in different writings. Women's sport risks losing out on sponsor money due to existing systems that strengthen structures in sport where women and men are treated differently. In my next line, I will talk about what it looks like today when companies sponsor, for example, women's sports and the social commitment they value much higher than getting tickets to the matches, for example.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-105	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Lotta Finstorp for raising an important subject and showing a great commitment to women's sport. It's good– the more people who can be involved in women's sports the better. As an old elite athlete on the women's side, I know how important it is that there is support around society for all the time, power and energy that is spent not only by practitioners but also by many non-profit forces around the whole of Sports Sweden. The sports movement is one of our biggest peoples' movements and means a lot to individuals. Sweden's fantastic sporting achievements mean an incredible amount to individuals, but they are also basically a democratic movement and thus an important democracy builder who can get more people to protect the democracy in which we live. I would also like to thank Lotta Finstorp for asking me this question at Question Time. It has given me the opportunity to get to grips with the issue of sponsorship. As I look at it, it becomes clear to me that it is not basically the tax system that disadvantages women's sport when it comes to sponsorship, but it is the viewers. There are so many more people watching men's football than women's football. My picture is that this is a minor problem in individual sports where gentlemen and ladies compete at the same time. It is mainly in team sports where women's and men's competitions are at different times that it is a problem. It is clear that we need a greater interest in looking at women's football, for example, and that is why I also mentioned in my reply that it is amazing that so many people were watching the World Cup in football. It's something that could increase the chances of sponsorship. Getting viewers interested in women's sports is an obvious and important way forward. Another possibility is that the Swedish Sports Federation, which distributes all the government money that goes to sports, is considering how to allocate that money based on the fact that the possibility of sponsorship income is different between different sports and between women's and men's sports in team sports. It is a discussion that I hope those who are committed to, for example, women's football will include the National Sports Federation. The Government and Parliament decide on resources for the Swedish Sports Federation, and then it is they who distribute the money. It is, of course, an important discussion to have in the sports movement how to benefit well both women's and men's sports and both girls' and boys' sports.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-110	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your commitment to this matter. What I see when I look at the guidelines and the Tax Agency's assessment is that they are based on old truths. It is legislation that goes back 40 years when it was mostly men and boys who played football, for example. If we stick to team sports, most teams make counters to get some kind of sponsorship. I would like to take my home team's elite women team Eskilstuna United as an example. The girls on the team make many hours of outstanding compensation– that makes many of the teams, I'll say, but I've looked at Eskilstuna – in the form of social commitment when they help older people to visit hospitals, for example. They also train girls in exclusion areas, not only to become good football players but also to strengthen their right to stand up for equal values. How are such things valued in money when companies enter and sponsor on the basis of these kinds of criteria? Today, only 20% of sponsor money goes to women's sports despite the fact that the number of practitioners is almost evenly distributed between the sexes. Much of this is surely due to the fact that there are old guidelines, old truths, in the tax legislation on the right of deduction. Linda Wijkström, Commercial Manager at Elite Football Women, says: It is the Tax Agency's guidelines for deduction that is the problem because sponsorship is linked to the market value of the compensation given. You have to look at this. Hey, hey, hey, hey. Hey, hey, hey, hey. Hey, hey, hey. There you can see that companies sponsor in a different way than before, and then legislation and guidelines must follow. I also looked at a very interesting report by Mård and Salihu at Linköping University, Department of Economic and Industrial Development. They have studied: Why do companies sponsor women's teams? Mrs Mård and Mr Salihu also asked the question: are there links between company sponsorship strategies and their CSR work, i.e. corporate social responsibility? They found, as EY has done in its report coming on Friday, that it did. The company's motivation to sponsor women's sports is not based on exposure to increased profitability but also because it can demonstrate the company's CSR objectives. Then the guidelines must also be in line with the fact that we are seeing a completely different sponsorship today. As you stay in the old way, with the guidelines that exist, men's sport is sponsored in a different way from women's sport. Then I think like this: This should be a very good thing to analyze for a feminist government. What does it really look like today? How do you sponsor? Do we have to screw something? It is not a question of there being unequal tax legislation. Of course there must be a level playing field. I absolutely agree with the Minister for Finance on that. But it is a matter of seeing it black and white: What does it really look like today? They are sponsoring in a completely different way today.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-120	Madam President, I would like After all, we do not have any specific tax legislation on sponsorship, but it is part of the general legislation. It's important to have it with you. What limits the possibilities of how to view sponsorship is the prohibition of deducting gifts. It is a foundation of Swedish tax law. My assessment is that there is a great deal of support in Parliament for companies not being able to deduct gifts, because there could be a big hole in various possibilities for tax evasion. Nor does it benefit sport, which needs its halls and arenas, which are often publicly supported, in order to be able to carry out its activities. It's a limitation. Of course, it is important to look carefully at how the guidelines are designed and what the general legislation looks like. It has been a review of tax legislation, particularly in relation to sponsorship. We have looked at it again, in connection with Lotta Finstorp's question. I believe that this is still relevant. It was considered that it was not appropriate to make direct changes in relation to sponsorship. Lotta Finstorp addresses the Swedish Tax Agency's guidelines. They're hard for me as a minister to interfere with. Should I do so, I am sure that someone else would immediately report me to the Constitutional Committee for Ministerial Government. On the other hand, there are great opportunities for the Riksdag to ask questions and also call the Swedish Tax Agency if you are particularly interested in their guidelines regarding sponsorship.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-123	Madam President, I would like Yes, we still have an uphill before sport is equal. Economic conditions are an important piece of the puzzle to achieve the goal. Sponsorship at the elite level is as necessary for women's sport as for men's sport, of course. Therefore, the regulatory framework for the value that marketing creates for the sponsored company needs to be clarified. Then there is no need for misunderstanding, and then we can work better towards an equal sport. There is a need for greater transparency in the way this valuation is carried out. Account must also be taken of the new time in which we find ourselves. There is, of course, a significant financial difference for the company sponsoring whether it can deduct sponsorship compared to whether sponsorship is considered a gift and therefore a contribution. The two reports I have referred to confirm that it is civic engagement and CSR objectives that are crucial when companies sponsor women's sport in particular. That is why the guidelines need to be updated in some way so that we can contribute to the objective that I assume we all share, namely equal sport.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-126	Madam President, I would like As I started with, I really appreciate Lotta Finstorp's commitment to women's sport – yes, for sport as a whole, for women's sport and for women's football. It's a commitment that I share. I think it is fantastic that there are many Members of Parliament who are fighting for an equal sport. Sport is something that gives us great success in the world. Sweden is put on the map when we are successful. Sports are great for practitioners. It captures many children and young people who might otherwise have had a tough time. Many young people are given the opportunity to develop as leaders in sport. Many mothers have the opportunity to develop their leadership as leaders in sport – it is also fantastic. In addition, it is an opportunity to build democracy from below through a peoples' movement. The problem with sponsorship is that there are more people watching men's football than watching women's football. That is something we can all do something about. I have now made a small contribution by buying two tickets for a match with Lotta Finstorp's team: Eskilstuna United. They meet Limhamn Bunkeflo on October 13 at. 17. I don't know if you have an annual pass. If so, you have the opportunity to bring two others with you. But here are at least two tickets. I hope it's gonna be a great game.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-129	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me what I and the Government intend to do to persuade the Iranian Government to repeal laws restricting the physical freedom of movement of women in Iran and whether I and the Government intend to persuade Iran, through the UN, to repeal laws that discriminate against women. In another interpellation, Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me what I intend to do to support the Iranian workers' struggle for free trade union organisations and to persuade Iran to lift sentences against striking workers. Furthermore, Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me what I am going to do to support the right of Iranian journalists to freedom of expression, to persuade the Iranian regime to abolish the rod penalty and to persuade the Iranian regime to distinguish between decision-making and executive power in relation to judicial power. The human rights situation in Iran remains very serious, as is discrimination against women and girls. The tragic death of Iranian football Khodayaris Sahar Khodayari reminds us that women and girls still lack access and equal rights in many areas. The situation of trade union representatives and journalists is also very serious. The same applies to the fact that the culling is a common sanction for certain crimes and that Iran has no politically independent judicial system. All these aspects are addressed in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' report on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Iran published in 2017. The situation of trade union representatives was raised again when the Prime Minister – and I – visited Iran in February 2017. At that time, a list of imprisoned activists was also handed over. Several of these have since been released. Discrimination against women and girls is an example of issues that are regularly addressed in our dialogue with Iran. A concrete outcome of the dialogue is the bilateral Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation for increased female participation that I signed in 2017. The agreement, which is followed up by the Swedish Institute, covers both the labour market and social life. Questions about the protection and respect of human rights are central to Sweden's relationship with Iran. We are constantly working on these issues and addressing a wide range of human rights in all our political contacts with the country. The importance of human rights was also an important part of the meetings I and my predecessor Margot Wallström held with Iran's Foreign Minister Javad Zarif during his visit to Sweden from 20 to 21 August. The government clearly expressed its criticism of the human rights situation in Iran. In addition to the bilateral dialogue, Sweden is also actively and continuously working on these issues through the EU and the UN in order to strengthen respect for human rights in Iran. One example of this is that Sweden is a member of the core group which, in Geneva, annually presents the resolution to the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran. In order to be able to influence others, dialogue is extremely important, not least with countries that have a different approach from the Swedish government. Isolating countries that do not share our values is not a solution. D a Swedish government will continue to have a clear dialogue with Iranian representatives on the issue of the human rights situation in the country, including discrimination against women and girls, trade union rights, freedom of expression, the application of rod punishment and the importance of an independent judiciary. Sweden will also continue to be a driving and clear voice for the equal value of all within the EU and the UN.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-141	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a comprehensive answer on what the government has done, although the answers consist of general terms that the state of human rights is bad in Iran and that the government raises the issues in dialogue and committees within the UN and the EU. It is important, but to get the Iranian regime to recognise and change its apartheid and sharia laws is also very important, and I hope that the government will continue to do so. The repression and persecution of the regime have continued over all these years, although they have had dialogue with them. Women are being imprisoned. We have here many times raised the situation of Iranian women. We have raised the situation in this House many times for workers, journalists, Kurds, other minorities and so on. We must continue to do so until we persuade the Iranian regime to change its laws. Iran's prisons are filled with human rights fighters and socialists. We have often highlighted women's rights activist Nasrin Sotoudeh in this House. She's a lawyer. She wanted to represent women who took off the veil. She got 38 years in prison and 148 lashes, just because she represents women who don't want sharia laws. I want the government to fight with this and in dialogue with Iran calls for the abolition of Sharia laws. In the fight against apartheid in South Africa, many sacrificed their lives. This has also happened in Iran. In frustration of not getting the right to move freely and visit a football match lit Sahar Khodayari charged himself on fire and burned to death. She wants the same right as the men to see a football game. She chose a fate similar to that of Suffering Emily Davison Davison when she threw herself forward to the English king's horse and died in 1913. We do not want countless women and girls to be given multi-annual prison sentences and whips simply because they want their basic human rights and freedoms. Today, in Iran, we see massive, everyday sexual oppression of women of the same type as the black population in South Africa. Gender apartheid and sexual oppression are ideologically justified in Iran on the basis of religious beliefs. After many years, the international community forced South Africa to change its position. The Swedish government then played an important role against apartheid. Today, Sweden must play the same role in apartheid laws that have lasted for 40 years against women in Iran. I would therefore like to ask: will Sweden demand the release of Nasrin Sotoudeh and the Swedish KI researcher Ahmadreza? Will Sweden demand the release of workers activists at Haft Tapeh, which I mentioned in my interpellation? Several of them have been imprisoned for 18 years only because they have been on strike to have their wages paid. The journalists who wrote about the strike have also been imprisoned.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-149	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the new mission. For a long time, I have followed the work of the Foreign Minister on human rights, trade union rights and LGBT rights. Not least we met in the first line on the ride this summer. I also know that the Foreign Minister is extremely sharp when she talks to various organisations and representatives of different countries, something that I have had the privilege of being able to follow in certain contexts. I would also like to thank Amineh Kakabaveh for consistently raising human rights in Iran with a stringency as few others. One of the questions she is asking is about journalists, and we have seen that even those who defend those who are being persecuted are being persecuted. An example is Nasrin Sotoudeh. Among other things, she has defended Bahai in Iran, the largest non-Muslim minority in the country. Last week there was a UN report on the situation of the Bahai in Iran, and it says this: The most flagrant forms of oppression, persecution and harassment have followed the Bahais for the last 40 years. Terrors, arrests, detentions or imprisonments are constant threats and continue to characterize the main persecution of the country's Bahai. The lack of constitutional and legal recognition of unrecognised minorities means that their supporters are denied fundamental human rights. As they fall outside the country's legal framework, unrecognised religious minorities such as Bahais, Christian converts and Sufis become targets for discriminatory legislation and practices. This also applies to those who defend them and their rights. It is deeply problematic about the persecution of trade union workers, and if I do not remember quite wrong, I think that the Foreign Minister has raised trade union rights with representatives of Iran and also achieved some success in this. It is also about journalists, lawyers and minorities. Bahaier is one of the minorities, but Balucher, Kurds and a lot of other minorities are also persecuted simply because they are minorities. I therefore wonder: will the Foreign Minister also raise Bahais, for example, in his further meetings with representatives of Iran?
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-156	Madam President, I would like I will try to answer the questions from both Amineh Kakabaverh and Anders Österberg. Iran's judicial system, as Amineh Kakabaveh pointed out, is not independent. The way the judiciary operates is not transparent, and political interference is recognised. The principles of the rule of law are not respected in Iran. For example, people are detained without being informed of what they are accused of, and people are in custody without a trial. These aspects are raised in our contacts with Iran. The policy of isolation directed at Iran over the last decade has not led to any positive progress on the Iranian judiciary and the human rights situation. It is important that we continue with a way forward where dialogue and meetings are focused. The human rights situation in Iran is undoubtedly very serious, even with a reform-friendly government in place. However, improving the situation may take a long time, especially in a country where there are strong conservative forces within the government that are trying to discourage progress on human rights. However, such a government is better than an even more conservative government. Discrimination against women and girls is an example of issues that are regularly addressed in the government's dialogue with Iran. Protecting, promoting and supporting a wide range of human rights defenders is another clear priority in Swedish foreign policy. The harsh judgment against Nasrin Sotoudeh is an example of how the Iranian regime does not respect the principles of the rule of law. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Stockholm therefore immediately addressed the Sotoudeh case during talks with senior Iranian high-level representatives, including the Iranian ambassador. The case of Sotoudeh was also raised during the visit of Minister for Foreign Affairs Zarifs to Sweden. I would also like to reply to Anders Österberg that the Government shares his concern about the plight of the Bahais in Iran. The Bahaians are particularly vulnerable to discrimination and are prevented from exercising their religion. The government regularly addresses the situation of minorities, including the Bahais, in Iran. This was most recently done during Foreign Minister Zarifs's visit to Sweden in August. I also had the opportunity to visit Bab's shrine in Haifa this summer. I am pleased that this beautiful and inspiring place is on the UNESCO World Heritage List. The situation of minorities in Iran has also been highlighted in the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' report Human Rights, Democracy and the Rule of Law in Iran of April 2017. In addition to bilateral contacts and dialogue, we are working systematically and continuously on the situation of Iranian minorities through the EU, in the UN and in contacts with Iranian representatives. The same applies to the situation of trade union journalists and lawyers in Iran. The UN Special Rapporteur on the human rights situation in Iran, whose mandate Sweden has been the driving force in renewing each year, draws attention to the situation of minorities, in particular the Bahaians. As Anders Österberg points out, the most recent report by the Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Iran also highlights the discrimination against the Bahais. In November 2019 Iran will be examined in the UN Universal Periodic Review. UPR is a regular review of the human rights situation in all UN Member States. The last time Iran was reviewed, in 2014, Sweden made a recommendation to take action against discrimination against ethnic and religious minorities.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-165	Madam President, I would like We fully agree on how miserable and terrible the human rights situation in Iran is. I said that dialogue is important, and it is good that Sweden is running the issues. I really believe in you, Minister, and I believed in Margot. I forgot in my first speech to congratulate the Minister on the post. I have no answers to specific questions. When it came to the ship Stena Impero one could set counter demands. The ship was released free because it was about trade and business, but as soon as it is about human rights, it is not possible to persuade Iran to change. The country has deceived the Swedish government and other governments, such as the fact that during Khatami and Rohani things have improved. But it's been like choosing between plague and cholera. I agree that Iran's legal system is based on the Security Council deciding, not the President or a Foreign Minister. But the Security Council has been their follower. During both Khatami and Rohani there have been summary executions, and many human rights fighters have been hanged by cranes in public places. I have lifted this up many times; it is an unimaginable barbarism. I would like to ask the question once again: will the Foreign Minister specifically demand that Iran respect independent trade unions? Otherwise, it is possible to set ultimatums for Iran to be placed outside the ILO. One of the core conventions is to respect independent trade unions. The Haft Tapeh workers wanted their wages paid, and for this they were imprisoned 18, 15 or 7 years. There's a lot of women there. Esmail Bakhshi is one of those imprisoned. Ha n has been sentenced to over 70 lashes. We must make concrete demands, such as the release of Ahmadreza Djalali. Is it possible to make demands on Iran to turn the death penalty into life? It is about somehow preventing people from being executed on an assembly line without proof, trial or access to a lawyer. These discussions are important, otherwise Iran will make demands on Sweden and the West to pay in the form that Iran will manufacture weapons. In this way, this government has been acting for 40 years, at the expense of human rights, women's rights, minority rights and workers' rights. There are demands on us. It is not just because thousands of Iranians and Kurds live in Sweden, but because the issue of human rights and women deserves a debate of their own in this House. That is why I am a little concerned that we have not been allowed to talk more about women's rights. It is enough tea to lift up these cases for an hour or 20 minutes, including terrible, barbaric death sentences, whips and beatings. I hope that I will receive answers to the questions I have put to the Foreign Minister.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-174	Madam President, I would like I would also like to express my thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his reply. I think that was clear. I want to raise another minority. One of the most brutal images I've seen from Iran is two cranes. In the two cranes hang two young guys. They've been hanged, killed because they love each other. It's so incredibly brutal and barbaric. I hope that the Foreign Minister, who was the first Foreign Minister to go on a pride train in the Baltic States, will one day be the first to go on a pride train in Tehran. The road there will be long, but we also know that history can change quickly. Hopefully the people of Iran will one day be free. Hopefully, one day we will see that trade union rights, women's rights, LGBT rights and minority rights will also be respected. I wish the Foreign Minister every success in continuing the dialogue. It is an extremely important piece of work, and it is not always easy when you sit face to face to raise the issues. But thank you very much for the Secretary of State's doing so.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-178	Madam President, I would like To start with Anders Österberg : I would also be the first to go on a riding train in Tehran. In fact, I raised – I wonder if I was not the only – LGBTQ people's rights in the UN last week because I think it is being raised far too little in the multilateral context. It is worth repeating that Sweden actually deals with human rights in all political contacts with Iran. We continue to be clear and have a very sharp dialogue. I would like to say that it is not only in terms of trade that changes can be made. During the visit of the Prime Minister, myself and a large number of women in Iran in 2017, we gave a long list of imprisoned union representatives. Now, during the visit of the Foreign Minister, we were told that a large part of these have been released. Of course, we want everyone to be released, but I think it matters to press. As far as Ahmadreza Djalali is concerned, that is what we are talking about. Also the specific case we raised when Zarif was here. We demand that the death sentence not be carried out. Together with the other EU countries, we have protested against an execution on several occasions, and we continue to request access to him with various consular efforts. The widespread application of the death penalty in Iran, where minors are also subject to the death penalty, is very worrying. It is one of the issues that the EU is actively pursuing in its relations with Iran. Sweden's position on the death penalty is very well known: it is inhuman, it is cruel, it is irreversible and it is contrary to human rights. We condemn the application of the death penalty in all its forms. If one is to say something in a positive direction, it is that the number of executions in Iran fell by about 50% in 2018. It was mainly about the death penalty imposed in drug-related cases. The EU also has sanctions against Iran, in which Sweden, of course, has participated, in respect of human rights since 2011. It is restrictive measures, it is the freezing of funds and economic resources and it is travel restrictions. Last April we extended these sanctions against Iran. It is the people responsible for serious violations who are subject to these sanctions from across the EU. I would just like to remind you of the Universal Periodic Review, which will take place in November of this year. There, Sweden can address in principle all the issues raised by both Anders Österberg and Amineh Kakabaveh as issues to be examined. Last time we raised, among other things, recommendations that the security and freedom of expression of journalists should be examined in particular. So we agree with each other a lot. The human rights situation is terrible. But the way is not isolation, but the way is dialogue.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-187	Madam President and the Minister for Trikes. I know that Sweden has ambitions. I know the Secretary of State really wants to do his best. What I want to say is that this dialogue must be concrete. General terms on human rights are not enough. I also know that these cases were important. We in the Iranian network in the Riksdag collaborate with both LO and Transport, and LO and Transport constantly highlight these issues in other parts of the world but also here in Sweden with the Swedish Government. That is why it is important to listen to the trade unions. It is the core LO Conventions that apply. Iran has signed. If they don't respect them, you have to make demands that they be put outside or challenge them. I'm in favour of dialogue. I'm not saying we should close the doors. On the other hand, I say that one should be concrete with a regime that is constantly executing its citizens. Iran's release of the workers' activists was not because it wanted to. It was because a mass protest of workers in many cities has now been going on for over a year. It goes on every day. Moreover, these workers' activists were subjected to torture. Many people's health was affected by hardships, as in Ahmadreza's case, so they had to be released. Iran also executes many, such as Arabs in the southern part of the country, Kurds, Balucher and Bahai and political activists. It is said that they have used drugs and alcohol and are criminals. This is considered normal, and we who know it know it is happening constantly. I hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs will say in his last speech if she calls for the release of the people I mentioned.
i-a7130641dfeca5c2-193	Madam President, I would like As mentioned earlier, Sweden's position on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law is clear. We have repeatedly criticised Iran. We are very concrete. We always deal with individual cases, and that sometimes leads to results. We also refer to discrimination against women and girls. We always talk about trade union rights, freedom of expression, the application of rod punishment and – that is important – an independent judiciary. Feminist foreign policy also makes a difference and is needed. We have specifically addressed the cases of Nasrin Sotoudeh and Sahar Khodayari. We have mentioned that systematic discrimination and subordination continue to characterise the lives of girls and women in Iran, as in many other parts of the world. We have contributed to an approach that identifies gender equality as a fundamental element of development and an absolutely fundamental element of development, foreign and trade policy and as a counterforce in undermining these rights. I would like to conclude by emphasising the seriousness with which I look at the human rights situation in Iran. We will continue to be the driving force for respect for human rights. We will continue to be very concrete and address specific cases. We will also continue with dialogue and not isolation. But as I interpret Amineh Kakabaveh, she is also prepared to continue with dialogue as long as it is concrete and with clear criticism.
