i-48a70cbc0e441d18-0	Before we begin the debate, I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that, among the audience in today's debate, we have the chairman of the French Senate Finance Committee, Vincent Éblé, together with the senators of the committee.
i-3z5nYia9SdcyFYvjXbJ1mz	I would also like to welcome the other distinguished members of the diplomatic corps attaching to today 中 s debate between party leaders. Welcome to the Swedish Parliament!
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1	Mr President, I would like to Author Frans G. Bengtsson once pointed out that in every century people have found their own age to be a little more miserable. He found a French columnist who wrote back in the 17th century: The world is in its old age, and people's minds are lost. Perhaps this is a little comfort when we look at Europe today, because certainly it may look like our continent, in the autumn of its age, is merely repeating its past. We now have governments in the Member States of the European Union who call themselves both conservative and socialist democrats, but they interrupt and oppose anti-corruption work. They strengthen their power over judges, constitutional courts and individual court cases. They take control of state media, allow critical media voices to be silenced and point out parts of civil society as foreign agents. These are no small, isolated details – corruption, judicial control and the silencing of the media are ghosts from Europe's past that are coming back again. At the same time, the right-wing extremists in the European Parliament are mobilizing. They not only use Parliament as a platform for their conspiracy theories and hatred, but vote against proposals to strengthen workers' rights. They want to restrict women's right to their own body, and they don't just want to stop the work to face the climate threat – they deny that the threat exists at all. Many of them not only want to weaken or paralyze the EU's work, but want to divide it once and for all. This is not a small, marginal group. By the end of the 1990s it had a dozen representatives, and today they are over a hundred. According to forecasts, there may be even more of them. They have succeeded in bringing down the darkness in Europe before. Never, never will we give them the chance again – never!
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-5	Mr President, I would like to There is another Europe. It is a Europe in which we work together to benefit not only the market but also the people of the countries of Europe and where we use the Union to create added value in people's everyday lives. It is a Europe in which we have free movement but never free exploitation of workers and in which the European Union creates a common labour market that does not crush the dreams of employees but makes them a reality. It is a Europe where cross-border threats are met by cross-border forces – where we come together to crack down on terrorist networks and international theft leagues and where we stand united, side by side, against the threats in our neighbourhood. This applies, in particular, to Russia's unjust occupation of Crimea. It is a Europe in which we are actually doing what so many people are just talking about, namely forcing both large companies and countries to take responsibility and jointly implement the climate change that the world's young people are screaming for. It is a Europe which will then also become resistant to political and religious extremists because safe, secure people are so much more difficult to incite to hate each other. It is a Europe that I believe in and work for, and that, my friends, is a Europe that is not in its old age but in its youth.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-9	Now every democratic party is faced with a choice between either giving the extremists what they want, namely cooperation incentives and power, or resisting. As a social democrat, I am primarily a democrat. That is why I and the party I lead will resist. And we shall stand side by side with the forces in Europe that stand up for human dignity and for democracy. To those parties who instead want to join the right-wing extremist movement or cooperate with it, in the hope of getting their own share of the cake, I have a simple question: What has right-wing extremism ever done in the history of Europe that makes you want to give them power again?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-10	To all Swedish citizens, I want this to be said: you are the one who decides. It's up to you! Should Sweden move towards stronger democracy and greater equality or towards growing divisions and extremism? Should employees' rights be strengthened or weakened? Should women's rights be improved or weakened? Should the climate threat be combated or denied to the last? What we have before us is a referendum on the rise of right-wing extremism. Should it be offered power or resistance? If you want to be a part of the resistance – make your voice heard no later than May 26! Right-wing extremism has succeeded in destroying Europe in the past. Together, we will ensure that it never succeeds again.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-11	Mr President, I would like to On 26 May, Sweden is going to the European Parliament elections for the sixth time. Some things have happened since 1995. No and well to the EU finally became yes, and Sweden is today one of the countries where support for membership is greatest. It can be seen in here, too. Those of us who have been around for a while remember that the 'no' parties repeatedly went to elections that Sweden should leave the EU. We remember that the Social Democrats turned their lists between those who wanted to join and those who wanted to leave. We remember the Centre Party's priceless nja to the EU, and we remember the Left and the Swedish Democrats, who until this year wanted Sweden to make its own Brexit. It's not like that anymore, and that's good. Because we were right, and you were wrong. Instead, this time Europe is about substantive issues – about law and order, about migration and the EU's common borders, about cooperation for the climate and about trade, digitalisation and entrepreneurship. It's about politics for real. Then Europe, like Sweden, needs more bourgeois politics and more moderates in parliament. The Moderates make Sweden safer through the EU, Swedish migration policy better through the EU, our competitiveness stronger through the EU and the climate issue more effectively through the EU. It requires a political idea that is linked from Strängnäs via Stockholm to Strasbourg, and it requires the realisation that the EU cannot replace Swedish action. The old 'no' parties were wrong in blaming the EU for all its misery. Equally wrong are those who are now laxly waiting for the EU to solve Sweden's problems, as well as those who want to pay more but the EU is becoming smaller. Last Sunday we debated the 306 shootings that took place last year and the sexual abuse that now affects three times as many as five years ago. We also debated exclusion and gang crime, which characterises 61 vulnerable districts in our country. None of this Europe can solve for us. We have caused these problems ourselves and must do something about it ourselves. It is the Swedish government's slowness, lack of interest and wrong priorities that is the political problem here at home. But EU cooperation also plays a role, because both Sweden and the EU must do the right thing. Nine out of ten thefts of car parts and boat engines are being carried out today by foreign theft leagues. The same leagues commit half of all house invasions. They are ravaging our residential areas, in marinas, in tool sheds and in parking spaces. Thefts must be stopped here in Sweden. We Moderates therefore want to see stricter penalties and abolished quantity rebates. We want to see more police officers, who have mandates and equipment and who are paid so that they also want to stay in their important profession. And when theft goods for SEK 2 billion a year are carried directly across Sweden's borders, Swedish customs must be given resources and stronger muscles. But with the help of the European Union, we can go further. The free movement of people should not apply to criminals. The free movement of goods shall not apply to stolen goods. The free movement of capital shall not apply to tax evasion. EU citizens are to be in prison in their home countries. Those who commit crimes in Sweden will be expelled. Europol should have more resources and a special centre focusing on international theft leagues, just as they are currently working on international terrorism and serious organised crime. In the same way, we can make Sweden more secure through a better European migration policy, because only through the EU can we secure our common external borders. Strengthening the Frontex border authority should therefore be self-evident, as should catching and judging those smugglers who are now cynically risking other people's lives for money. All this we want to do moderates, because common solutions are needed here. But it cannot replace Sweden's own responsibility; Europe must not become an excuse for inaction here at home. In Sunday's debate we did not get a straight answer from Stefan Löfven on whether there will be a broad parliamentary inquiry for a sustainable Swedish migration policy. Instead, the government seems passively waiting for what is happening in the EU. But that is not possible, because the EU cannot solve Sweden's refugee policy. We have to do that ourselves. And time passes – Sweden cannot wait, either for the EU or for Stefan Löfven. The climate also needs an effective policy, both in Sweden and in Europe. The EU can contribute by strengthening and broadening the emissions trading system so that global emissions are reduced, and by doubling the EU's commitment to nuclear research. But even for the climate, we must take responsibility ourselves. Swedish nuclear power prevails over Sweden. When electricity shortages are now threatening Malmö and Stockholm, it is not at all the EU's fault but the government's, and it is the government that must solve it. In the same way, Swedish social welfare does not need a social pillar of the European Union. Parental insurance and abortion legislation are in our hands, so let us now focus on real common problems. Wolves, snus and hunting we can handle by ourselves. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates have said yes to Europe since 1961, because we believe that European cooperation makes our own continent better. Then we secured peace through free trade. In our own time, European cooperation is about more common issues. Freedom must still be defended against Russian aggression. The threats are increasingly cross-border, but so are the solutions. We have always been for Europe, but we have never believed that Europe is doing the job for us.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-29	Mr President, I would like to As you know, this is a debate that is called for in connection with the elections to the European Parliament, which will be held if not even three weeks, on 26 May. For me as a friend of Europe, it goes without saying that this is an opportunity to fight against the anti-European forces that want to build a federal EU state and against the anti-European forces that hate and want to wipe out Europe's diversity and diversity, who want to continue to centralise and align, who are taking the right to try out democratic decisions in free democratic countries in Brussels, who are sitting in Brussels and setting up anti-realistic regulations for things that they know nothing about, which allow terrorists and Islamists to operate and move freely across the continent, which censor the free word and restrict what we can say on the Internet, which create unsafe cities where soldiers are once again patrolling the streets and harbour imperialist great power dreams of a federal Europe. Mr President, I would like to It is the federalists who are anti-European, and it is against them – not against Europe and not against European cooperation – that I blow to battle here and now. For us, it is a matter of course that we should work together to tackle the common challenges we face. It goes without saying that every single hand cannot combat international organised crime on its own. It goes without saying that each country alone cannot solve environmental problems that are by their very nature global. It goes without saying that we should continue to facilitate and develop trade between Europe's countries. This is a matter of course for European cooperation. But it is equally obvious, Mr President, that we in Sweden should have the right to control our own borders and to control who and what enters our country without having to ask the Eurocrats in Brussels for permission. It is equally obvious that we in Sweden should have the right to decide how we organise our labour market, to decide on wage setting and conditions and to decide what model for the labour market we should have here in Sweden without other countries' politicians interfering in. It goes without saying that we have the right to build our own well-being and to lay down rules on parental leave and social rights without Brussels putting its noses in the water. We will work together in Europe when necessary, but we have the right to be masters in our own house. This right has every nation throughout Europe.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-37	Mr President, I would like to I believe that this is where the real line of conflict in this election cuts. It is not a question of whether or not we should cooperate. It is not about 'yes' to Europe or 'no' to Europe. It is about how we should cooperate, in which Europe and in what form. As a friend of Sweden and a friend of Europe, I can never accept a regime in which bureaucrats and politicians of other countries – politicians that we cannot vote for and that we cannot dismiss – should govern Swedish legislation, make our laws and shape our future. Then it is no longer a cooperation; then it is something much more. Mr President, I would like to I love Europe and I think that Europe is absolutely fantastic. But I do not love Europe. On the other hand, I have come to understand that Europe is a political project that can be changed politically. In the short term, it is about breaking decades of left-wing liberal federalist domination, and in the long term we must begin to return power to the individual Member States. We shall continue to facilitate trade. We will continue to work together to solve common problems. But we must also respect each other's differences and respect and safeguard Europe's diversity.
i-DEbibhxjDaGYaQtv4fhZdi	Mr President, I would like to This year's elections to the European Parliament are the most important since Sweden became a member of the European Union. We are facing a crucial choice for the climate, for healthy and safe food and for continued freedom and democracy in Europe, because we are seeing dark forces gaining ground. In Viktor Orbán's Hungary, anti-Semitism is openly expressed. Foreign human rights organisations are painted as spies. Their employees are being harassed, and their offices are being raided at night. That's how you scare away humanity. Free universities are closed down here. Teachers and students are forced to break up and leave the country. That's how you silence the free thought. Legislation is being amended to take over and silence critical media. Anyone who writes or says something that is not appreciated by the regime risks high fines. That's how you silence the free word. This is how Viktor Orbán builds what he himself boasts of, his anti-liberal democracy. It is an abominable development for many, an inspiration for others. The Swedish Democrats pay tribute to developments in Hungary. They have repeatedly highlighted Orbán as a model, most recently in Agenda's party leader debate on Sunday. In addition, their MEPs pay tribute to him as a strong leader. Orbán, Le Pen, Kaczynski, Åkesson – whatever the name, the messages from Europe's right-wing populists are the same. But to quote a wise woman: When they go low, we go high. We're not going to adapt, we're not going to fold down. There are so many of us who do not want Europe to back down to the dark dead ends of the finality. And we are prepared to fight hard for the liberal values that Europe needs. When the top names of the Social Democrats borrow messages from irresponsible Brexit campaigners and talk about taking back control, then we show how we can jointly take control of emissions and how we get a healthier and safer food. Then we stand up and fight xenophobia, nationalism and populism. We do not allow ourselves to be inspired by it. Together with our liberal friends throughout Europe, we become a force for an open and democratic Europe, a force that never shuts up. Similarly, we are a force for a greener Europe, for a Europe that does more for the climate and for healthy and safe food. It is absolutely essential that the European Union raise its climate ambitions, that we reduce our emissions considerably more and significantly faster than today, that we change the transport sector and get Europe's car manufacturers to build greener cars, to connect Europe with a rail network so that more people can choose to travel green and sustainable, so that more people dare to choose alternatives other than aviation. We also want to see major joint efforts in European research on green technologies. Let us turn Europe into the place where tomorrow's green technology wonders see the light of day. Our seas are in urgent need of change. When we see how Baltic cod starves away or how a dead whale in the Mediterranean has 22 kilos of plastic in its stomach, we must act forcefully. It is time for us to show how we can allow plastic, bottom death and depletion to be replaced by fresh water that can be bathed in, living bottoms and more and healthier fish. It is also time to give Europe's animals a more dignified life, to introduce more stringent animal protection in Europe, where it is more profitable to invest in animals having a good and healthy life than not. Liberal values of freedom, tolerance, equality, justice, climate responsibility and cooperation are no play with words, no flume, no apparent conflicts. It is about being able to live in a reasonable everyday life in Europe, about having equal value regardless of sex, sexual orientation, religion or origin, about the right to criticize power without being harassed, about getting healthy and safe food in saturated stomachs, about being involved in taking responsibility for the survival of the globe. It is simply about a decent Europe. The struggle for a Europe of the future is going on here and now, and no one has to doubt where the Center Party stands. We will be the voice of an open and decent Europe, a Europe with higher climate ambitions, cleaner seas and better animal welfare for healthy and safe food.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The European Union faces enormous challenges. The question is whether Europe is capable of changing to face them, because we need better European cooperation in our part of the world. We need better cooperation to cope with the climate. The fact is that today the EU is exacerbating the climate crisis by pouring subsidies into what is destroying the climate. We need better cooperation to counter authoritarian tendencies, which are seen in too many Member States, thus safeguarding democracy. Otherwise, the risk is that authoritarians will gain power over us through the European Union. But Europe must also do its own democratic lesson and democratise the institutions of bureaucracy and secrecy. Last but not least, the European Union must reconsider the poor market liberalism and right-wing policy that exacerbated the economic crisis, which threw young people into unemployment but saved the banks and their owners. Change is needed. Mr President, I would like to Recently, the Climate Action Network, which brings together the environmental movement in Europe, published a thorough review of the parties' work on the climate issue in recent years. The Left Party is the best, not only the best Swedish party, but one of the best parties in the EU. It is because we are prepared to take the consequences of the climate crisis, to put an end to the extraction of fossil fuels, to stop selling cars that run on fossil fuels and diesel, to say to the capital-rich but anonymous European Investment Bank: money for gas projects has ended. Now it's time to help with the transition. We put the climate ahead of corporate profits. It runs counter to today's Europe, but a change is necessary. We are also among the clearest and most active defenders of women's rights, the right to abortion, the rights of LGBT people, trade union rights and the right to asylum, and this is needed in these times. It is needed in the European Union, it is needed in Poland, it is needed in Hungary and it is needed in Italy. We're part of the same movement. We want Europe to change. It is so unreasonable that in the EU bureaucracy has a monopoly on proposing new law. European Commissioners who are not allowed to take instructions from us in Parliament may submit legislative proposals, but we must not do so. It is an outdated model of European cooperation that must be able to change. The EU must be able to rethink economic policy, which exacerbated the crisis when the financial crisis passed into a social and economic crisis in large parts of the euro area. The European Union failed. It betrayed the young, the betrayal of the trade unions and the betrayal of welfare, because it was completely busy saving the financial markets and those in the financial markets that had caused the crisis through irresponsible lending and irresponsible speculation. No wonder such a policy breeds frustration, anger, and suspicion in many lands. It is out of that soil, out of that disappointment, that right-wing extremism emerges. A different policy is needed which not only saves the banks but puts the people first. But there's another way. There is a climate policy that puts the climate first. There is clarity against those who are cutting the edge of democracy or even restricting it in EU countries today. There are those who want to put employees' rights before companies' rights. The EU should never pit workers against each other and force their conditions down. The EU will lift people out of poverty, protect collective agreements and protect the Swedish model. It is a fine thing that people get collective agreements and good pay and cannot be exploited. Portugal got tired of right-wing politics. They refused to follow the dictates of the European Commission and raised the minimum wage, raised their pensions and taxed the rich – contrary to what the EU prescribed as medicine after the crisis. Portugal is doing well. The economy is doing well, and unemployment is falling. It is possible to challenge the EU's right-wing policy. It is possible, together with the left in Europe, to pursue a policy that builds equality in this part of the world. That is exactly what we need, Mr President. The vote for that in this election is the Left Party.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-68	Mr President, I would like to The EU is originally a Christian-democratic creation. The three most important fathers of the Union, Germany's Konrad Adenauer, Italy's Alcide De Gasperi and France's Robert Schuman, were in fact all Christian Democrats. After World War II, their countries were traumatized and crushed with deep physical wounds. But they weren't paralyzed. They were led by statesmen who both knew their history and believed in their future, who stressed human dignity in contrast to Nazism and Communism, who tormented and still tormented Europe. These leaders and the Christian-democratic ethics that led them were the pillars when the old enemy countries rose out of the ruins and said: Never again. No more world wars, no more death camps. Never more totalitarian thoughts about thousands of years of kingdoms to be built on top of crowded mass graves and bloodstained battlefields. We Christian Democrats are friends of Europe. We believe in Europe, we know our history and we believe in our future. It gives us the perspective that is needed when we are now building on the European project. We see the problems facing our continent. We see the increased polarisation between those who are against Europe and those who want to create a European superstate. We understand that if the balance between countries and the Union is disrupted, the whole of cooperation risks breaking down. It is this insight that underpins our election campaign. We want to make the EU fit again. We do not see Europe as a superstate, but as a kind of family of countries, and in a well-functioning family the members belong to each other but at the same time are allowed to be unique. This is what is a suitable Europe, a Europe that is working hard on common problems but allows each country to be unique. It is the scope of the Union, not the necessary measures, that should be appropriate. Let me give you a few examples. The environment knows no national boundaries. That is why we want to improve emissions trading, adopt the objective of a climate-neutral Europe in 2050 and phase out oil, coal and gas through, among other things, enhanced nuclear cooperation. International crime requires international law enforcement. That is why we want to strengthen cooperation in criminal matters between the judicial systems of the Member States. The EU must defend human rights throughout the world. That is why we are prepared to remove the right of individual countries to veto their positions on human rights in particular, so that more foreign policy decisions can be taken by qualified majority. A suitable EU is handling the big tasks, not the ones that individual countries are capable of doing on their own. We think so too, says virtually all parties in here. The criticism of the Christian Democrats is just fiction. Well, then let's see how it is. The Work-Life-Balance Directive states that each country will quota two months in its parental insurance. S, V, MP and L voted in favour. It's not enough. The Working Conditions Directive means that individual countries' labour market laws are subject to the EU. S, V and MP voted in favour. It's not enough. The European Parliament is pushing to extend already inefficient labour market measures at EU level, with the blessing of the Social Democrats. It's not enough. Not least the Social Democrats speak with double tongues here. In Parliament, they salute the Swedish model, but in Brussels they vote to outsource it to the EU. This is certainly not the right time. Mr President, I would like to The truth is that neither the Swedes nor any other EU people want the superstate that parts of the EU's power structure dream of. Nor do they want Europe to be torn apart. They want what we Christian Democrats promise: a decent Europe. The difference between us and the Swedish Democrats is that we see Europe as an opportunity, not a threat. The difference between us and the Liberals is that we see Europe as a means, not an end. We will support the EU's cross-border work on cross-border issues, but we will put an end to detailed governance. The mission of today's Christian Democracy is to make the EU fit again and thus safeguard a Europe that will hold together for many years to come.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-87	Mr President, I would like to Peace Day falls today. It was May 8, 1945, that World War II ended. From the war cemeteries grew the dream of a brighter future. European cooperation was created in response to the Europe that nationalism had broken. So what has the European Union done for us in the generations that have gone since then? Well, we are today the most peaceful part of the world. We are the most stable democratic part of the world, and we, together with North America, have the highest standard of living that people have ever experienced. This is not a coincidence. This is because Europe rejected right-wing nationalism after the war and began to cooperate with each other. This is because we rejected socialism in Western Europe and eventually also in Eastern Europe and chose the liberal market economy and the belief in individual freedom. We chose a Europe where we can travel freely, work freely, study and shop freely without a lot of constructed barriers between countries. Europe chose liberalism as a model of society. But that is what is at stake in the long run. This is what the European elections are about, whether we are going to continue to build on cooperation and liberal social development or whether we are going to roll back this development. Right-wing nationalist forces are on the rise again. Let me stress that the threats to EU cooperation come from both the extreme right and the extreme left, but right-wing nationalists are on the rise at the moment. Their aim is to destroy European cooperation. Mr President, I would like to We Liberals want a stronger Europe, and I would like to highlight three reasons for that: Putin, Trump and China. They have it in common that they are challenging our continent in different ways right now. Putin and Russia are a threat to our freedom. China is a growing economic power and a fierce competitor. Trump is waging a trade war with the EU and fighting the free trade that has built our prosperity. We need to work more together in Europe, not less, to meet these challenges – for jobs and welfare, to reduce climate emissions, to combat crime and terrorism, to manage refugee flows in the future as well as to stand united against Russia. Enhanced cooperation within the EU is about making the EU more effective in those areas where this is needed. And where is it needed? Yes, in those areas where each country alone cannot solve its problems. For the Swedish part, it is not just about deepening EU cooperation in Europe, it is about Sweden being able to take steps to be part of the cooperation that already exists in the EU. For the truth is that Sweden is a half-member country of the EU. While we are members of the European Union itself, we are outside the EU's important financial pact, we are outside the EU's important banking union, we are outside the euro cooperation, we are outside the EU's public prosecutor's office and we are outside the EU's defence cooperation. In the area by area, we are totally or partly outside the cooperation that fills the EU – that is cooperation. This is essentially due to the fact that the two largest parties in Sweden, the Social Democrats and the Moderates, have been too anxious to move forward in EU cooperation. There are two extreme parties in this House, Mr President. They both really want Sweden to leave the EU but are currently trying to hide it because of the chaos of Brexit. They understand that this is not really going home right now. Then there are several parties in this House who speak well of the European Union, but who vote against Sweden participating in the cooperation that exists in the European Union and that Christian Democratic, Social Democratic and Liberal politicians in Europe are pushing forward. We Liberals understand that, at the moment, our ideas in Europe are blowing counterwind – I know that. We see this when bourgeois parties which have been among the most prominent European proponents for 30 years now say that cooperation has gone too far and that it was better in the past, more just in time. Just about that's the new nja to Europe. Liberals will stand up for European cooperation, not only in the solemn speeches but also in the decisions to be taken, not only in the tailwind but also in the headwind. Our conviction is that more cooperation is needed in a stronger Europe, not less cooperation that leads to a weaker Europe. Alone is not strong. Strong, you're together.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-100	Mr President, I would like to The EU elections on 26 May are not just any election. It is our chance to give answers to all children who are now striking on the streets because adults have not done their homework on the climate crisis. We can make the world Greta again, as the children demand, or we can give up beforehand and say as the right-wing parties: that there is no point in reducing emissions in Sweden, that there is also no point in doing so in the EU and that there are some others who are going to reduce emissions, some other time, somewhere else, a little bit more. But when the forest fires rage in Sweden in April and extreme weather drives millions of people on the run, the answer is not right. The world needs strength and faith in the future and, above all, that we are acting here and now. Mr President, I would like to There is nothing as powerful as an idea whose time has come. When Europe was in smoking ruins after the war, few could imagine that the countries that had bombed each other would rise up in friendship and cooperation. But some leaders, who never gave a finger to right-wing nationalists, had a vision of cooperation, and not just of cooperation, but of a united Europe. The new deal provided the basis, and the idea that appeared as a utopia has now created peace and prosperity in Europe for nearly 70 years. Today, Europe needs a new vision to agree on, and it is right in front of our eyes. This autumn, the EU will decide on the long-term budget for the next seven years. We Greens want to see a green new deal, that 50% of the EU budget should be invested in the climate. We want to see an investment plan for a new sustainable society where we phase out fossil fuels, strengthen the economy and secure jobs. About half of the world's electric cars are produced today in China, and within a few years China alone will produce three times more battery capacity than the rest of the world together. It is not enough to help the European car industry. Mr President, I would like to Today, the EU imports fossil energy – oil, gas and uranium – to a value of approximately SEK 3 000 billion per year. If Russia and the OPEC countries decide to cut off access to these fuels, the EU would in principle have to shut down. Instead, in a green transition, we are strangling the outflow of billions from the EU to oil states and investing in renewable and smart electricity systems in Europe, so that you and I can be part of green energy production with solar panels on the roofs and shares in wind power, so that Europe becomes self-sufficient in energy and so that the EU can stop looking away when oil-producing countries violate human rights and stop fertilising the interests of oil-chejkers and oligarchs. Together, EU countries can make tough demands on the world around them. The Green Party wants to see climate tariffs on goods produced in countries that are not part of the Paris Agreement or are not part of emissions trading schemes. Climate-denial countries where emissions are free are cheating free riders on the rest of us, and they are unfair competitors to European industry. What companies need to invest in green change is leadership, not politicians who point to others when it comes to doing something. Mr President, I would like to We're choosing the path now. On the other side of the Atlantic, as in many parts of Europe, we can see the effects of the policies of fear and polarisation, and it is no coincidence that the same leaders who do not believe in the climate crisis also sow the seeds of hatred. The Green Party has chosen a different path. We choose the climate, not the hate. We choose hope, solidarity and faith in the future, not resignation and mistrust. We know that with a vision the world can change fundamentally. This has happened before, and it will happen again. Choose hope instead of hate on May 26! Vote for the Green Party!
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-108	Mr President, I would like to At a time when European cooperation is under attack, we Social Democrats are taking responsibility. We take responsibility for democracy by resisting extremist forces. We take responsibility for social security by pushing for employees never to be put against employees in the EU. We take responsibility for the climate by taking the battle for a Europe that implements the Paris Agreement, without, without, but without, perhaps. The Moderates are a party that also used to talk a lot about responsibility. But it is not taking responsibility for democracy in Europe to open up to cooperation with right-wing extremists. It is not taking responsibility for social security in the EU to oppose all initiatives to protect workers' rights. With regard to the climate, Sweden's climate budget is being cut first on the grounds that responsibility should instead be taken internationally, but once the proposals are presented at EU level, they will also be East. Instead, nuclear power is now being allowed to become the universal solution, which means that responsibility does not need to be taken in any other way. So welcome to the speaker's chair, Ulf Kristersson! Why is it that a party that used to love to talk about responsibility refuses to take responsibility for the climate, which is our greatest question of destiny?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-111	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven is keen to combat extremism in Europe. That's good, but he should start here in Sweden. Yesterday, Kvällsposten told about a 19-year-old Jewish woman in Malmö who does not dare to show herself out, at least not as a Jewess. She has strong reasons for her concern. Jews are subjected to threats and harassment, not least in Malmö. Last Wednesday SSU chanted "Crush Zionism!" In the first May train of the Social Democrats in Malmö. This did not notice Stefan Löfven, because he was busy in Umeå warning the right hand. The problem is not new. In 2010, Ilmar Reepalu, a long-standing S-communist councillor in Malmö, said that he does not accept Zionism or anti-Semitism – a notorious statement where he hardly seems to understand what he himself says. Stefan Löfven : When do you deal with extremism in your own party?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-114	Mr President, I would like to In the Social Democracy, in the labour movement, there is zero tolerance of anti-Semitism. Not a millimeter is on us. I am strongly committed to this issue because I believe it is poisoning our society. And we will never accept that. Anyone who wants to be a part of the Swedish labour movement stands up to a hundred percent against anti-Semitism; nothing else applies. But then you also have to be careful about who you work with in Europe. We are having a debate on the European elections, Kristersson, and it will not be able to say: this is important, but we are ready to cooperate with those forces in Europe that want to destroy democracy and that do not stand up for the equal value of all people. I stand up for this here in Sweden. Are you standing up for it out in the EU, Ulf Kristersson?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-118	Mr President, I would like to In both the Social Democrats and our group in Europe, there are parties that act extremely badly. We deal with them and we shut them out of our cooperation. You are mumbling about your Romanian party friends and their way of dealing with democracy. We don't. Stefan Löfven, is your way of dealing with anti-Semitism and sloppy statements to, for example, promote Reepalu to lead you by far the most important investigation throughout the last term of office, the one about profits in welfare? I am not sure that he sees it as a crystal clear criticism of his and other Malmö Social Democrats' sloppy way of expressing themselves about Jews and about anti-Semitism.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-120	Mr President, I would like to How to appoint people for investigations, Kristersson, I do not think is an EU election issue. But me and the party stand up for exactly what I said, and that's what's going on. Since I have taken up office as chairman of the party, I have said that this is the case. This applies in Malmö, and it applies throughout Sweden. But then let us stick together when it comes to the parties in the European Union and how we should look at human dignity there. Let us not allow our main representatives, as in the case of the Moderates, to say: yes, but I can imagine working with right-wing extremists and nationalists as well. Then it won't stick together. It is important to do the same at home as at home: stand up for equal human dignity, stand up for solidarity and stand up for an open society. Then it is important to keep right-wing extremism away. I advise the Moderates to do so too, and we can help to keep a united and free Europe.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-124	Mr President, I would like to We'll continue on the same track. It is clear here that the Prime Minister, the party leader of the Social Democrats, is having a very difficult time responding to this. Extremism within Social Democracy is nothing new. They crawled for the Nazis. For decades they have been crawling for the Communists, and they are still doing so. You crawl to the Islamists. In history, they have collaborated with mass murderers of all kinds around the world. Then there is this SSU story from Wednesday, where the Youth League of the Social Democrats chanted anti-Jewish rams.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-127	Mr President, I would like to You have to hold on here. The leader of the Swedish Democrats – directly from the White Power movement and with a history like no other party in this Parliament – who has representatives who question whether Jews can be Swedish citizens and whether Sami can be it is completely disqualified from taking such a kind of discussion. But if you and the party should ever be serious about it, when you stand up for the equal value of all men. You don't. You do not stand up for solidarity, you do not stand up for an open society, you pay homage to right-wing extremists around Europe. Now you want to join them to pursue the same policy. Save us well!
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-128	Mr President, I would like to That was, to say the least, a non-existent answer to my very simple and concrete question. I asked: What measures has Stefan Löfven taken in relation to his youth federation – that is, the Youth League of the party in which Stefan Löfven is party leader and party chairman – anti-Jewish action? That's what I asked you a question about. All the other things that Stefan Löfven once again messed up, for which time in order I do not know, are things that we have heard so many times. In fact, listening to it is getting a little tiring. That is not at all relevant to this. I now put a question to the Prime Minister, to the party leader of the Social Democrats, about what he intends to do to counteract anti-Jewish tendencies within his own party. There are currents that are demonstrably present here and now. Please, Stefan Löfven, can you answer that question? Will you in any way take action against the Youth League of the Social Democrats? Will anyone be excluded? Will you take any action?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-132	Mr President, I would like to The Chairman of the SSU, Philip Botström, has expressed exactly the same thing as I do and knows what SSU stands for. It's SSU that handles its own members. I express what is in force in the Social Democratic Party. If anything is needed in the future, we will see what further needs to be done. But there is no doubt about where our party stands. We have always resisted Nazism and extremism in whatever form it is, because it is not democracy that we are talking about. We have to do this at home, and we have to do it out there in Europe. Then it won't hold to swerve after and enter into any right-wing extremist collaborations out there. If Europe is shaped in such a way, then we are affected. We stand up to anti-Semitism. That is also why next year, for example, we will have a major international conference in Sweden, where I and we in Sweden are hosting to show Sweden, Europe and the world around us that we always stand up to anti-Semitism.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-134	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven has done a great thing about the Social Democrats being a strong voice against populism and extremism, most recently on May 1st. Stefan Löfven has also expressed his disappointment at the outcome of the Brexit vote and called it a regrettable divorce. At the same time, the top names of the Social Democrats are spreading to the European Parliament elections, Johan Danielsson, the message of taking back control. It is an exact copy of the message that the Brexit campaign had – take back control – a campaign that can undoubtedly be called populist and whose outcome Löfven themselves have lamented. The same candidate also claims that parliamentarians from the Moderates and the Center Party will take advantage of every opportunity to push back Swedish workers' wages, which in no way corresponds to reality. My question is simple, and I have asked it in the past with unclear answers: Is the Prime Minister behind the campaign film and the false message that LO is now spreading across Sweden?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-137	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is a matter of standing up to populism, and we saw what it did about Brexit. There is no doubt about where we in Swedish Social Democracy stand there either. We regret this, but we must accept that the British voted in this way. But it will weaken Europe, and that is why it is up to us to stand up for a strong Europe. Such a Europe has to do with the labour market. I believe in a common internal market. It's good for us. It's good for us. But do not think that the labour market will work if wage earners are put against wage earners! We have to understand at some point that those who do the job, those who make sure that the values that we can distribute in politics, are the employees. Don't think they're going to settle for deteriorating conditions! Therefore, we will take back control of the Swedish labour market, so that we can stand up for our collective agreements and so that employees can have the decent conditions they should have. They're the ones doing the job, not you or me, Annie Lööf.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-139	Mr President, I would like to Now this is not about the policy of substance, but about Stefan Lövven's ability to maintain his credibility in the fight against populism and extremism. LO and its top name for the European Parliament elections are working on exactly the motto of the Brexit campaign: Take back control! It may be LO who is behind this, but he is in the picture, side by side with the first name of the Social Democrats. The first thing you look at on the Social Democrats' election page when you click for the European elections is a speech with the same top candidate. He represents you at press conferences and in the first May speeches, for example in Dalarna. That is how it should be – the top name is a representative of the Social Democrats. What is remarkable and strange is that the Social Democrats are talking about how regrettable it was with Brexit and how important it is to stand up to right-wing populism and against populism and extremism, but at the same time copying this message. I can't get it together. I ask again: is Stefan Löfven behind LO's Brexit Plagiarism call to take back control?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-141	Mr President, I would like to As far as the labour market is concerned, that was exactly what it was about. We had a judgment in the European Court of Justice saying that Swedish trade unions were no longer allowed to fight for their collective agreements. Then the then bourgeois regime took the opportunity to change Swedish law so that it was impossible; it took another step. Populism is fattened out of insecurity and insecurity. If workers feel insecure and uncertain about the future, populism is fattened. Here it is important to withdraw control in the sense that the Swedish collective agreements will apply to the Swedish labour market. Now we have changed the Posting of Workers Directive at European level, so now we can do it. We were also able to vote away lex Laval here in the Swedish Parliament. Now the Swedish trade unions and employees can fight for their collective agreements. That way, we'll take back control. Yes!
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-143	Before giving the floor to Jonas Sjöstedt, I would like to welcome the President of the Kenyan Senate, Kenneth Lusaka, to today's debate.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-144	Mr President, I would like to I listened with great interest to the Prime Minister and actually agreed with most of what he said, not least on the rights of employees. But then I started thinking about what you're doing at home. Here you will push through a decision to restrict the right to strike. You should seriously weaken the legislation that protects people with job security, LAS. You are going to raise the retirement age, which will affect those who have worked long and hard in heavy occupations in particular. Is it true, Stefan Löfven, that you have a politics on your own and another one on your own?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-145	Mr President, I would like to No.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-146	Mr President, I would like to The Employment Protection Act is being reduced, the right to strike is restricted and the retirement age is being tripled. You said the opposite before the election, Stefan Löfven. Then you would remove the general time limit and do something about the planing. There was no talk about going into LAS and changing. It sounded exactly the opposite. Now we're in a new election movement, and it sounds the same. Now it is employees' rights that apply. The question is what applies after the election. One thing I can assure you is that the Left Party has no predate in these areas. We will stand for employees' rights both before and after the elections in Sweden and in the EU.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-149	Mr President, I would like to Now we are talking about Europe. The party leader of the Left Party raises an issue where the discussion has just begun. Jonas Sjöstedt seems to know exactly what bill is coming, although the investigation has not even begun. Jonas Sjöstedt really wants to leave the EU. That is the Party's position. But thanks to the fact that we have done what we have done in the EU – stood up for the Posting of Workers Directive and changed the Posting of Workers Directive – and changed lex Laval in legislation in Sweden, the government that I am leading has now ensured that Swedish employees and Swedish trade unions can stand up for their conditions. It's important. That's what we're gonna do here at home, too. I now invite Sjöstedt. Instead of looking at the fortune-telling ball and making their own predictions about what is going to happen: Come up with the proposals, Sjöstedt, and we will stand up for the employees' conditions!
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-153	Mr President, Prime Minister. I would like to begin by emphasising that we have not yet received an answer to what is going to happen with the currents in parts of the Social Democracy that are in favour of anti-Semitism and give birth to Jew hatred. That answer has not yet been given. Action weighs so much heavier than words. I would like to ask a little about the words expressed at the European summit in Gothenburg almost 18 months ago. We warned against the direction and what would happen if work was extended to welfare issues at European level through the so-called social pillar. Stefan Löfven called the criticism "a fog curtain" – the social pillar would not lead to new legislation. But as so many times before, the words proved to be written only in water. The European Party of Social Democrats writes in its election platform that this is only the beginning. My questions to the Prime Minister are: how far is it going to go? What's the next step? What are you not prepared to give away to Europe of what you have not already given away?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-156	Mr President, I would like to The discussion on a social pillar began in a room of the European Commission together with Christian Democrat Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker. He's the son of a steel worker. He also understands the importance of employees having decent conditions, more people getting into work, good working conditions, decent jobs and educational opportunities. But social security is broader than that. We fully agreed on the importance of this. This concept was developed in such a way that all EU Member States supported it. It is a good thing, because it is about time that Europe really became a community for the workers and citizens of each country, not just for the market. I'm gonna keep standing up for that.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-157	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Stefan Löfven, I have no problem marking when members of my own party are wrong. And I think it is wrong to allow the right of decision over how Swedish mothers and fathers set up their parental leave to end up at European level. You promised dearly and sacredly, Stefan Löfven, that this will not change anything: a change in decision-making powers between the Member States and the European Union, not anyone. This is a story that suits those who don't really want to talk about social conditions. It is their way of countering the issue. But look at your actions! You are now releasing decision-making skills that should be at home in Sweden. This risks affecting the Swedish model, labour law and parental leave. Are you prepared to introduce a European unemployment fund? When you let these issues go and you think it won't go any further, it's a naive attitude. We have had enough press conferences from the Social Democrats where you apologize for being naive.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-159	Mr President, I would like to Ebba Busch Thor knows very well that the only way to change decision-making powers in the EU is to make a new treaty. No such new treaty has been concluded. It is exactly the same legislation as before the social pillar. The social pillar is 20 principles that we Member States agree to work together on and take forward, but in our own way. It is about how more people will get jobs, how to improve working conditions and how to increase social protection in our respective countries, but we do what we want. When it comes to parental insurance, it is good that you have it and that we increase equality. That's what it's all about. We have parental insurance that we know is taken out far too little by men. That part of this decision will not affect Sweden, because we are already ahead. We're not affected a millimeter, Ebba Busch Thor, be calm!
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-161	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to say that I share the concern about the anti-Semitic moods that exist not least within SSU in Skåne. I do not doubt Stefan Lövven's values, but you have a real problem. Sweden is outside many of the EU's cooperation. I have been in the Council of Ministers for eight years as Minister of Education. Stefan Löfven has been at the European Council for almost five years. We know that if you attend meetings and discuss you have influence, if you are not involved you have no influence. The problem is that in lots of collaborations and in lots of meetings, Sweden is not included because we have chosen to stay out of it. Of course, the most important thing is economic cooperation with the euro. There are 19 of the EU's 28 or 27 countries involved in the euro, and additional countries want to join. If you're not there, you have much less influence. It is defence cooperation, prosecution cooperation, banking union and the financial pact. It is a long series of collaborations that we are outside. Is it not time, Stefan Löfven, for Sweden to leave the gallery in the EU's work? We have now been there for 25 years. So why don't we go down on the field, start playing and get influence?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-165	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has influence in the EU. Jan Björklund also knows this from his years in the Council of Ministers. Of course we have influence. We're an active member. We have been under both bourgeois and social-democratic-led governments. There we are. That is not true in terms of defence cooperation. We're in it. We're in Pesco. We are in the lead of such a project with France. To say that we are not in is directly wrong. As far as the euro is concerned, I think both Jan Björklund and I can say that we must respect the referendum we had. That's the one. As far as the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Banking Union are concerned, we are looking at it. What are the advantages and disadvantages of that? Then we will come to a conclusion, and so will the Swedish Parliament discuss and decide on this. That's the deal.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-170	Mr President, I would like to I understand that it is the Riksdag that should decide. Now I ask what the Social Democrats think. I also understand that it is not someone else who should decide this, but it is in Parliament that we decide it. The question is, what do you think? The problem is that we have less influence. Stefan Löfven and I had when Stefan Löfven was active in the trade union movement press conferences in the euro referendum where we warned about the reduced influence that Sweden will have if we are not there. The truth is, that's where we are today. Magdalena Andersson and Stefan Löfven are allowed to leave the room when the others are going to set up the EU's economic policy. The problem is, when you get out, you risk loosing. It is clear that those sitting at the table are guarding their own interests, but no one is guarding our interests. If you don't sit at the dinner table, you risk standing on the menu!
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-174	Mr President, I would like to I like the last sentence. I got off a little bit. Actually, I don't know how to relate to it. It was quite far-reaching! We were on the same side with the euro. It's true. But I respect the referendum. I do. That's the first thing. The other is the D.A.'s office. I think we should try the opportunity to join. I see those benefits, and that's why we do it. But I want to do it in the way that is to be done according to parliamentarism. We investigate, then we come up with proposals and then we put it on Parliament's table. Nor can we go as quickly as, for example, the Moderates did and say: now the EU must also deal with terrorism. The Secret Service says no, we don't. Let's take the steps we can take when we're going to take them and do it step by step. It is clear that we should be active and safeguard European cooperation. There is no doubt out there among the other Member States of the European Union. Sweden wants to be active, Sweden is active and Sweden counts.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-179	Mr President, I would like to Europe needs a sustainable migration policy, and so does Sweden. Today's model is neither fair nor legally secure. I was recently in the large refugee camp at Lesbos in Greece and met the victims of the traffickers. In practice, it is smugglers who now decide who can apply for asylum in Europe. Many who apply for asylum are rejected but remain. We will take our share of the responsibility, and have already done so by far. But this simply cannot go on. The EU will play its role. We Moderates want to see two major changes. We urgently need to strengthen the EU's external borders with more European border guards, more resources for our common border protection and tougher penalties for traffickers. We must, of course, have control over who comes to Europe. The next step is that the issue of asylum is being examined directly at the external border, but then we must be realistic. The naive notion that one day the EU will suddenly solve Sweden's refugee problem is quite dangerous. The Social Democrats must also understand this. It requires us to act at home. On the contrary, however, the government proposes that Sweden should receive more family immigrants without any requirement for either support or knowledge of the Swedish language. Instead of restoring confidence in Swedish migration policy, Stefan Löfven uses the EU as an excuse not to tackle Sweden's problems. It is simply reckless. We Moderates promise leadership, not excuses. We want to do what Sweden has to do, and we have a realistic idea of what Europe can do. Both things are needed. This government is failing both.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-184	Mr President, I would like to Now we have listened several times to a moderate leader who ignores the EU's migration acquis. It's boring and it's a shame. We need a good common framework for migration policy. It is the best way for Sweden. That doesn't matter to the Moderate Commander. Moreover, the EU has for a long time focused on removing barriers to trade and developing the internal market. It's important and good. But the Union has done far too little for ordinary people, for employees' rights, security and working conditions. That is why we Social Democrats have now pushed for an EU directive to ensure that Swedish wages and collective agreements apply in Sweden. We have achieved 20 important principles in the social pillar and so on. Here at home, we have abolished lex Laval. Now, at last, Swedish trade unions can take the fight with their collective agreements. We have introduced the same rules for foreign transport as for Swedish transport. Our last victory in this House is that the conditions for lorry drivers will also be the same. The Moderates, on the other hand, do not care about this. They vote against. Why are you only interested in European cooperation on the terms of big business and not on the terms of employees?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-189	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the Social Democrats and the government are making two major mistakes in European policy. Firstly, you are not focusing on what is genuinely common in Europe at the moment. The really big common issues today are the cross-border problems of the climate, cross-border crime and cross-border terrorism. These are the really big problems that no single country can solve here and now. It's supposed to be the focus on the big questions. Second, you're playing with fire. You are now engaged in social pillars and also in double accounting. On the one hand, it is of enormous importance, on the other hand, it has no impact whatsoever. It doesn't stick together. It cannot be argued both that the social pillar means an enormous amount for social equivalence and righteousness in Europe and does not in any way affect what we do in Sweden. The big mistake with this is that in practice you are beginning to leave decision-making power to the European Union on matters that each country is better placed to deal with itself.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-193	Mr President, I would like to First of all, that's not true. It is not a new decision-making mandate, and Ulf Kristersson also knows that. But what is said here now is very interesting. I guess it's just the real problems, the big problems that count. We still have construction workers who are regarded as what the police themselves express as slaves of our time. They're building our homes. They have lousy wages. They sleep on concrete floors. We have lorry drivers who are never allowed to rest and who pose a danger not only to themselves but also to all those who travel on Swedish roads. All the proposals we put forward, you are voting to stop. You are voting against the Posting of Workers Directive, against the social pillar and against better working conditions. The truth is that you have been against almost all of the proposals both here at home and out in Europe for what applies to ordinary people. For me, this is a real problem. That's a big problem. They will be solved, and they will be solved together. It's Social Democratic politics.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-196	Mr President, I would like to There are really big problems here in Sweden. We have children who suffer in Swedish welfare. We have schools that don't work and where children don't learn anything. We have honorary violence that affects children. We have exclusion in suburbs where you do not enter the labour market. These are really big problems, but they cannot be addressed by the European Union. These are the problems we're going to solve for ourselves. To hope that someone else solves our Swedish major problems is to escape the responsibility we should take ourselves. Then there are major problems that we cannot solve ourselves because they cross borders. The problem of theft leagues, which now accounts for half of all Swedish house invasions, cannot be solved if we do not work across borders with other countries. Climate problems are clearly impossible to solve if we only do so in Sweden. The EU should do what it is inalienable for. Sweden should itself take responsibility for what Sweden must take responsibility for.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-199	Mr President and Ulf Kristersson! I have noted a further tightening up of Ulf Kristersson's rhetoric on migration and immigration policy, which I welcome. I think it is good that more parties, especially the larger parties in this House, are sobering up on these issues. It's just sad that it would have to go as far as it did before you realized that this was a problem, but better late than never. I also noted that Ulf Kristersson, at least in his first speech, highlighted the problem of agreeing within the EU on a common asylum policy. The fact is that the Moderates at EU level have voted in favour of the creation of the Asylum and Migration Fund. It has voted in favour of rather far-reaching wordings linked to the UN's migration agreement. It is in favour of a mandatory redistribution of asylum management within the EU. Mr President, I would like to Then my question to Ulf Kristersson is: Do the Moderates and Ulf Kristersson think that asylum and immigration policy is a national matter to be decided on in Sweden or a matter to be decided on by the bureaucrats in Brussels?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-202	Mr President, I would like to I think it is clear that if Europe is to function as a cohesive continent with free movement on the inside, we must also have common rules on the outside. I think that's quite obvious. That is why I said that the immediate task must be to secure Europe's borders. Of course, Europe must have control over the external borders. All the more remarkable is that the Swedish Democrats are sceptical about the whole of Frontex or about the system that could allow Europe to control its external borders. In the longer term, I think it would be good to have a common European asylum policy – to examine the reasons for asylum at the border. It would also be much better to have common quotas for how many people you bring into Europe. I have no hope whatsoever that this will work out quickly. That is also why I do not want to outsource Swedish migration policy with the hope that one day the EU will solve it. That's why it's called for us to do something here and now.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-206	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the fact that we are going to do something here and now. Then I do not quite understand why we have to wait for Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats to decide whether they want to do something here and now. We who want to do something here and now perhaps should do it anyway. I have no problem whatsoever with us providing resources both in terms of money and perhaps of staff and so on to secure the external border. Perhaps that is the EU's most important task: to gain control over who enters the EU. Then we also need our own border controls to get control over who gets into Sweden. The problem with the redistributive mechanisms proposed within the EU in the area of asylum policy is that Sweden is a country that is likely to be hit rather hard. The Moderates, for example, have voted in favour of the redistribution mechanism based on population density and gross domestic product. If I do not understand completely wrong, that means that Sweden would get an even greater share of the EU's asylum seekers and not a smaller one, as Ulf Kristersson says he wants. How does Ulf Kristersson view this?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-209	Mr President, I would like to I think I was quite clear on this point. I think that Sweden has already taken our share of responsibility by far and that there is no room for liberalisation and to extend Sweden's responsibility now. That is simply unthinkable, as I pointed out in my speech. I don't want to wait for Stefan Löfven at all – on the contrary. Stefan Löfven is currently sloppy by not taking the initiative for changes on Swedish soil that secure Swedish migration policy. But we also need Europe – not to wait for an optimal solution, but because some things can only be resolved at European level. That is why I sometimes think that the scepticism of the Swedish democrats towards the EU where the EU can make genuine use of it is a little sloppy. You should appreciate that Europe can solve problems that Sweden alone can never solve. We must fully embrace this cooperation, but say no to impoverishment where Europe has nothing to do with it, such as the social pillar.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-212	Mr President and Ulf Kristersson! There are two EU parliaments. The European Parliament moves every month between Brussels and Strasbourg. It is the very image of how tax money flows into things that it should not be used for in the European Union. The scope for efficiency improvements and savings is very large. There is now a tough negotiation on the EU's long-term budget. On paper, the government says that it does not want the Swedish EU fee to increase. I believe that the EU will soon come up with a bill of several billion which it wants the Swedish taxpayer to pay. Then we have a responsibility to be careful with taxpayers' money. My question to Ulf Kristersson is: Are you prepared, together with the Left Party, to present a proposal in the EU Board that lays an absolute bar on the government not to increase the Swedish membership fee to the EU?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-215	Mr President, I would like to I said politics must be connected between Strängnäs. Don't forget Strängnäs! – Stockholm and Strasbourg because all three start at S. But Brussels is the great place for Europe. I fully agree with Jonas Sjöstedt that, in the long run, we cannot waste money on unnecessary things, nor in the EU bureaucracy. The same policy should apply there as in Sweden. As far as the EU levy is concerned, I am crystal clear, and I have been so all along: we do not want to see an increase in the Swedish membership fee to the EU, and at least in a situation where the EU is becoming smaller. There are very good reasons for redistributing the EU's efforts into the economy. We want to see more resources for the climate, more resources for law enforcement, more resources for the digitisation of markets and less for other things. We have been unequivocal on this point. The current negotiations must end with the fact that if the UK leaves the EU, the budget will be reduced, and Sweden will not pay more. We've been crystal clear there all along.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-218	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulf Kristersson, for your answer! To its content, it was a good answer. It is the same approach that we have: the EU levy should not increase. But it is important to keep this all the way to goal and not to say in six months' time: All right, we're letting off 5, 10 or even more billions annually. It's gonna be a lot of money. That is why it is important to say right now that we can put forward a concrete proposal. After all, the EU Council binds the government; the government is a minority government. We could sit down and make a sharp proposal: not a crown in increased membership fees. That is the message to the EU, and that is the mandate that Sweden has to negotiate from outside. If there is to be credibility in your words, Ulf Kristersson, I think you should say here and now that you are prepared to do this so that it also really will be so and not just said in party leadership debates.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-222	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Sweden should maximise our influence in the EU in all possible ways, and then, of course, we will participate in the discussions. Our vote must be unambiguous: the fee should be reduced rather than increased. The budget should be reduced rather than increased. It is quite obvious, and I can tell the government any day. But Sweden should be able to participate in talks with other countries that want the same thing against those countries that today, a little simplistic, just want the EU to take on new tasks without removing old data. Then we must act wisely in the European Union and ensure that our vote counts and has an impact.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-224	Mr President, I would like to In recent years, I have noted a new attitude towards EU cooperation from the Moderates, compared with, for example, when Carl Bildt led the party. It's more skeptical. That's what you have to do. Each party decides for itself. However, I note that the most important EU cooperation, namely the euro cooperation, is not mentioned at all in the Moderates' EU programme. My question, however, concerns what Mr Kristersson mentioned, namely the growing international crime. I really share the description of the problem and support the measures that Ulf Kristersson described. Now there are proper proposals put forward by the right-wing group. Manfred Weber, your candidate for President of the Commission, is now putting forward a proposal to actually dismantle Europol and instead build a new and much greater cooperation, a European FBI, to really crack down on organised crime. On the Liberal side, we have said yes to this. The Liberal Group has said yes to this in the European Parliament for many years. But the Moderates vote no. Why?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-227	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with the important question of scepticism. I think Jan Björklund is still in an old discussion. If you are in favour of European cooperation, you say yes to everything that the EU makes up, including 15 new billions from Sweden to the EU budget, because it is more and more too. If you say no, you are against everything that the EU does. I think this is an old idea of how Sweden should react to the cooperation. We are in favour of more cooperation in those areas where the EU can make genuine use of it – for itself and for Sweden. We are against cooperation in areas where Sweden can handle the task better itself. I tried to illustrate this with the social pillar as an example. So it is not the case that those who are most in favour of the EU say yes to the EU doing everything. Instead, we are trying to say that Europe should be relevant – not narrower, sharper, rounder or higher, but relevant. Do things where only Europe can solve the problems! This approach is not about scepticism; it is about making our cooperation more effective. The second question was about Europol and the police. It is quite obvious there: Cooperation is better, but Swedish police handle Swedish land.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-231	Mr President, I would like to It's quite obvious that it's a new attitude compared to the past—not compared to a few years ago; I've heard this attitude from the Moderates for several years. It was a long-term no-bank union. The D.A. said no for a long time, even if you've turned now. The Euro-cooperation was indeed something that the Moderates under Carl Bildt, along with the People's Party at the time, pursued for a long time; now you do not even mention it. But à la bonne heure. Then I didn't get a real answer. When Ulf Kristersson came to the question of the FBI, his minute was over. Ulf Kristersson can answer now: Why do you say no to the proposal from the EPP Group – the right-wing group, the one you yourself are part of – for a European FBI?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-233	Mr President, I would like to Because we want to strengthen the cooperation that exists today. We believe that Europol is a good basis for cooperation. Today, they cooperate against terrorism, cybercrime and organised crime. We want to strengthen it with another firm leg, namely the fight against cross-border crime. It's about house invasions and such things, the theft leagues. That cooperation exists, and it works well. Make it stronger! However, we want to retain the right and duty of Swedish police to manage it on Swedish soil. Nevertheless, I think you are careless about the issue of the euro and the Banking Union, Jan Björklund. We decided on the euro in a referendum. I do not see any reason to reconsider this position in Sweden after that, given what has happened in the euro area over the last ten years. Maybe that day will come once in the future. As far as the Banking Union is concerned, you yourself were in a government that tried that question very carefully. We then concluded that there was a greater risk that Sweden would enter into and make commitments to other banks when we were not members of the euro cooperation. I think this is a wise policy. But the basic question remains: we do that where cooperation serves us best.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-237	Mr President, I would like to There are few debates in Swedish politics right now that are characterised by so much ignorance as when the Moderates want to discuss new nuclear power in the EU elections. You want to double the effort on nuclear power to reduce climate emissions, when we know that scientists are saying that we have ten years to halve emissions. We need to reduce emissions here and now. Since 2010, the EU has invested SEK 100 billion in research and development into fourth generation nuclear power – without a single reactor having been built, without a single kilowatt-hour of electricity being produced. Now you want to spend another EUR 44 billion on research into new nuclear power, when we could spend that money on building wind and solar energy across Europe and replacing coal and oil here and now. I wonder how Ulf Kristersson's multi-billion-dollar investment in research into new nuclear power goes together with his own demand for climate policy to be assessed on the basis of maximum emission reduction per invested krona.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-240	Mr President, I would like to As in so many other areas, you have to do the right thing both in Sweden and internationally. The fact that the Moderates and the Green Party have different views on nuclear power has probably not been missed. We think differently and we stand for it. We want nuclear power to remain in Sweden; you want to phase it out. There you can think differently. But we also see conditions for cooperation. Nuclear power is large, expensive and complex. In some sixty countries of the world, new nuclear power is currently being built. The conditions for cooperation in security matters and standardisation are very great. It could make it cheaper, easier and safer to reinvest and extend nuclear energy lifetimes in different countries with more cooperation. We take responsibility in Sweden for our own energy policy. That's where we think differently. But we also want Sweden to use the EU's opportunities to cooperate more specifically on nuclear energy, because so many European countries would benefit from such cooperation.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-243	Mr President, I would like to There is another peculiarity in the fact that the Moderates focus on nuclear energy in the EU election debate. This is, of course, directly contrary to Article 194 of the Treaty of Lisbon, which states that each Member State has the right to its own energy mix. The most effective ways of reducing emissions here and now you are generally opposed in the European Parliament. Christofer Fjellner is watering off the emission requirements of heavy duty vehicles. You have voted against binding national requirements for renewable energy and energy efficiency. You are putting forward proposals that do not provide emission reductions here and now. You are against the proposals that are producing emission reductions here and now. Can Ulf Kristersson explain to me how this is cost-effective climate policy, something that the Moderates are turning so hugely at home that you do not want to do emission reductions here but instead point to the EU? There you are unanswered and using nuclear energy as a fig leaf because you have no climate policy.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-246	Mr President, I would like to No, not at all! We are talking about nuclear power because we think that nuclear power is important. You are talking about nuclear power because you are terrified of a debate on nuclear power. We are in favour of Swedish nuclear power. We are in favour of international cooperation on Swedish nuclear power. We are not in favour of the EU forcing any other country into an energy policy they do not want. I believe that Germany is now making mistakes that quickly decommission nuclear power and instead expand coal power. I think the ducks that are now investing in Russian gas are making a mistake. I think it's wrong. But that is for each country to decide. We want to see fossil-free energy in Sweden and are happy to cooperate internationally on the conditions for more fossil-free energy. The emissions trading system – a bit technical, but still – is very well-functioning. We could connect it to other parts of the world. We could broaden it to more shipping, for example, and use this market economy instrument that the European Union has today and which is recognised to be well-functioning. On the other hand, the fact that we are now rapidly closing things, which only means that Volvo and Scania cannot sell trucks and that we are allowed to import dirtier things instead, is bad environmental policy.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-251	Mr President, I would like to It is a rather broad debate, to say the least, but with a surprisingly strong focus on precisely European issues. That is a good thing, because it should be about the European elections. I would say that developments in European cooperation are worrying. It is worrying because the EU is growing. There are very strong forces all over Europe, especially among the elites in Brussels, who want the EU to grow into something other than the cooperation that I believe there is basically very broad support for, both here in the Swedish Parliament and among Swedish voters in general. It wants to continue to transfer more and more power and broaden the EU's competence in this area. I find it interesting to listen to the debate before the European elections, both this time and before, because all parties in Sweden, except possibly the Liberals, tend to become EU-critical every five years when going to elections. Then they sit down in Brussels and vote in favour of a further shift in power for bureaucrats and politicians in other countries in Brussels. I hope that sooner or later the voters will see through this. But it also says something about how Swedish parties view Swedish relations with the EU and European cooperation. It is understandable that the Swedish people do not want what the European elite is aiming for. The Swedish people do not want a European federal EU state. The Swedish people are prepared to cooperate with other countries in our neighbourhood but do not want more of supranationality, uniformity and central control. There is at least one party in this Assembly that is fighting against increased supranationality, and it is the Swedish Democrats.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-256	Mr President, I would like to This was another speech on the EU by SD leaders, but it is not yet known what they really stand for. They have always been against us and said that we should leave the European Union. Now, all of a sudden, they are in favour of saying that we should probably not leave, but that it is a matter of having a very critical attitude to the European Union. The EU includes trade and free movement. That's very good. But the Union is also, in fact, an association of democratic states. These are countries that stand up for human rights, freedom of expression, the rule of law, free media and free research. These values are now under threat in a number of countries: Poland, Romania and Hungary. Politics connects the grip on the media, and universities are forced to close down. Now there is a wave of right-wing extremes and right-wing parties who want to use the EU for their purposes inspired by these very countries. That is why I would like to ask Jimmie Åkesson: where do you stand when it comes to defending the principles of democracy? And why is your party impeding the EU's initiative to defend the Union's fundamental values in Poland and Hungary?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-260	Mr President, I would like to The view of what European cooperation should be is what cuts through the Swedish debate and debate throughout Europe. There is an elite who wants this cooperation to develop further. It will grow and broaden with some kind of final goal of Sweden being a small state in a European federation. Then there are those who do not want to see such a development, but want to take a few steps back and start relocating power to the individual Member States instead. I now understand that Stefan Löfven and other members of this elite who want to continue to build on federalist cooperation feel threatened by growing dissatisfaction with this development. Then you take to this kind of ugly method – guilt by association-revelations and so on – but I don't want to be in that game at all. There is no reason whatsoever to question where I stand in relation to democracy and human rights. Listen and read, Stefan Löfven!
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-262	Mr President, I would like to I don't want to be there, says Jimmie Åkesson. But Jimmie Åkesson is involved in the debate. Jimmie Åkesson's party was against the EU looking at what Poland and Hungary are doing where media freedom is restricted, the freedom of academia is restricted and the freedom of the judiciary is restricted. Does Åkesson think that's right? You say that you want to help refugees on the ground but vote against EU support to Jordan to do just that. In the European Parliament, your fellow Members are voting against the Article 7 procedure against Poland and Hungary. You are voting against the principle that women should have the right to abortion. You are voting against more transparency and transparency in the work of the European Union, and you were the only Swedish party that could not vote in favour of the ILO Convention against Slavery. You couldn't even vote for that. Jimmie Åkesson, your party is on the wrong side of the EU's fundamental values.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-265	Mr President, I would like to I have fought for slave labor in particular throughout my political life. It feels extremely urgent. Come on, Stefan Löfven! You can do better than this. You can do better, I'm absolutely convinced. There is reason to criticise other countries in Europe and within the EU. Absolutely. I've never said anything else. I don't think it's the least bit weird. But again, there is a line here through Europe and also in the Swedish debate on what is the EU's competence. Should the EU – bureaucrats and politicians of other countries in Brussels – decide on abortion legislation in European countries? Just now Stefan Löfven said that he did not think so, but now he still accuses me of counteracting abortion rights becoming what they should be in other countries. One must at least stick to some kind of honesty in the debate. Sweden is not Poland. Sweden is not Hungary. Sweden is Sweden, and it is Swedish interests that I represent in this election.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-268	Mr President, I would like to I take the turn of both the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party on EU issues seriously – no ironies and no discards, but that is a good thing. This is a sign that we have now passed the stage if we are for or against membership. Sweden is a member of the EU and has obligations towards the EU but also wants to drive the EU in the right direction. All that is very good. The question then arises: What do the Swedish democrats want with EU membership? And then I wonder why the Swedish Democrats are opposed to having common borders and to the expansion of Frontex so that we can seriously protect the EU's external border with the 10 000 border guards that could be used when it is really needed so that the EU does its bit to manage reasonable migration while we in Sweden do ours for Swedish conditions? Why are you opposed to that kind of development?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-270	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I do not really know what Ulf Kristersson is referring to here, but I have nothing fundamentally against a joint effort to protect the EU's external border. On the contrary, it is perhaps one of the most important tasks of European cooperation – for a number of reasons. Firstly, to combat illegal migration, and secondly, to ensure who and what enters the European border. It is also very clear, I think, when you read our election platform that it is one of the things that we think the European Union should focus more on. Then it is possible that Ulf Kristersson has found some vote somewhere and in some context where for some reason we have not voted as Ulf Kristersson. There may be a lot of reasons for that, but then you'll almost have to concretise what it is that I'll be able to answer that. I have nothing against us working together to keep the external border with the rest of the world. I think it is extremely important.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-274	Mr President, I would like to I do not want to be a paternalist, but when you vote against that kind of data, against the responsibilities and against the decisions that provide the conditions for Frontex, as the common border authority is called, it can be interpreted as being against the common task.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-275	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I do not know what context and what vote Ulf Kristersson is referring to. I have no objection to Frontex developing. I have no objection to Frontex, or whatever it may be in the future to carry out this task, receiving resources from us as well. On the contrary, I think that a larger part of the European economy and common resources should go to the very kind of work that benefits the whole of Europe but also benefits us. The external border is important. The reason we got the gigantic migration chaos in 2015 was that they were unable to keep that limit. Then it would have been very good if we had also had our own internal border controls. We didn't. We had to go to the EU late and ask for permission, and then we had to have it. So there is a need to review aid for the external border but also, in particular, to protect our internal border.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-278	Mr President, I would like to Cold winds are blowing in many parts of Europe. A clear example of this is the development in Hungary in which Viktor Orbán dismantles transparency in order to reduce free pressure, knock down human rights organisations and throw universities out of the country. For me, what is happening in Hungary is spectacular and deeply serious. It is a development that should be taken into account and which must be combated. For the Swedish Democrats, however, Hungary and Viktor Orbán seem to be a source of inspiration. Jimmie Åkesson wrote only a year ago that he does not worry about developments in Hungary. Jimmie Åkesson chooses Viktor Orbán in front of Angela Merkel. As recently as a few weeks ago, the MEPs of the Swedish Democrats also answered a question about Viktor political Orbán model: He is exactly the leader that I would like to have in Sweden. ..................................................... What is it about Viktor Orbán and with the development in Hungary that makes the Swedish Democrats see him as such a great role model and source of inspiration?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-281	Mr President, I would like to I do not recognize the description that Viktor Orbán or, for that matter, anyone else in any other country would be a great source of inspiration. On the other hand, I think that there may sometimes be a need for some balance in the debate. It's not Annie Lööf's expert on. That is my firm opinion. On the contrary, it is quite sweeping and rather aggressive outcomes against both me and all sorts of others in all possible contexts. As I said earlier to Stefan Löfven, we are in Sweden now. This is Sweden. Through the elections to the European Parliament, we will send Swedish politicians to the European Parliament. They should be there and, I think, defend Sweden's interests against other interests in Europe. The counter-question to Annie Lööf is: Why are the liberal parties in Europe so keen to send billions of dollars each year to countries such as Hungary and Poland, when they are as hateful and misbehaved as they do? You're supporting it. You support the European social funds and the like that support Hungary, to the great pleasure of Orbán, of course.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-285	Mr President, I would like to Now it is the way that the Center Party is pushing for sanctions against countries that are clearly violating fundamental human rights and freedoms. The truth is that developments in Hungary should frighten everyone who does not explicitly stand for and believe in authoritarian rule and a restricted democracy. The organisation Freedom House assesses countries on the basis of a democracy index and says that, due to recurrent attacks on the country's democratic institutions, Hungary's status declined from free to partially free. They continue because Hungary has imposed restrictions on or control over the opposition, the media, religious groups, academia, NGOs, courts, asylum seekers and the private sector since 2010. It is therefore a European country in which democracy is dismantled, and it is an inspiration to the Swedish Democrats. I ask again: What of what was listed in the explanatory statement inspires the Swedish Democrats? What is it that makes the Swedish Democrats' own MEPs think that Orbán is exactly the leader that she would like to have in Sweden?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-289	Mr President, I would like to I am not inspired by anything that Annie Lööf lists – nothing. I don't think I've ever suggested it either. That is why I do not really understand the question. I'm sorry Annie Lööf didn't answer my second question. She said a little sweepingly that one is prepared to contribute to sanctions against countries that do not live up to human rights, or something like that. It's nothing concrete. You can take some of Hungary's billions. But the fact is that the other parties, most of them in this Assembly, are prepared to send many billions of Swedish tax money annually to, among other things, Hungary to build up Hungary's social welfare and the like. It rhymes very badly with what you're standing here saying, Annie Lööf. I don't understand it at all. The Swedish Democrats want to completely remove those subsidies and funds. They serve no purpose whatsoever. Swedish tax revenue is needed in Sweden.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-293	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson! Members of the European Parliament are very well paid. They receive more than the members of the Swedish Parliament. They also have extremely generous allowances. In addition, each Member of the European Parliament receives an office allowance of SEK 40 000 per month. It will be half a million SEK a year, and it will be 2 1⁄2 million SEK during the term of office. That money shouldn't really be put in its own pocket. But the risk is that some will end up there, especially if you do as the MEPs of the Swedish Democrats who refuse to show a single receipt of what they have done with that money. They also say: If we are re-elected, we will continue not to show a single receipt of the SEK 2 1⁄2 million you receive in office expenses. Why, Jimmie Åkesson, do you allow your MEPs not to account for what they are using the office allowance for?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-296	Mr President, I would like to On the whole, it is a hugely important issue. It determines the future of the whole of Europe. The simple answer is that I don't control them. I think that we need more transparency, both in terms of this and in terms of the Members of this House and the benefits they enjoy and how they are used. I believe that there is strong support for this, both among parties and among people in general. But I can't decide it alone. I have no problem with a review of regulations and the like. But it is not an issue where I commit myself to force someone to do something. There's just nothing I can do.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-299	Mr President, I would like to Left party parliamentarian Malin Björk has shown receipts all the way and will continue to do so. When you listen to Jimmie Åkesson it seems that he has no influence in the Swedish Democrats. He has, like, no say in what Members do and how they act in different ways. You know, Jimmie Åkesson? I think you're wrong. I think you have a very strong influence in the Swedish Democrats. Now I would like to hear you say this, addressed to your own candidates: I expect you to tighten up. I expect you to show receipts and account for your millions in office expenses.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-302	Mr. Speaking Man! It would be very good if they did so, as far as possible. It's not easy all the time. But my firm opinion is that as far as possible they should do so. This applies not only to the parliamentarians of the Swedish Democrats, but also to the parliamentarians of all parties, preferably all countries. In order to achieve this, one should perhaps not stand here in the Swedish parliament and think so, but one should influence the EU to increase transparency, not least in relation to this type of benefit. I think it would have been very good.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-304	Mr President, I would like to When Jimmie Åkesson comes to really criticise the EU, he says that it is a left-wing liberal project or, as he writes in his book, a soulless social liberal work that is going on in Europe. He describes his own ideology as follows: I am a convinced nationalist. Europe has historically tried both liberalism and nationalism in various epochs. It may well be said that liberalism as a flow of ideas has dominated the last 50 to 60 years in Western Europe and more recently throughout Europe. It has created the most peaceful and democratic continent and the continent with the highest standard of living. Nationalism has also been tried in the history of Europe. I just want to ask Jimmie Åkesson: Can Jimmie Åkesson mention an era in Europe's history when nationalism has succeeded better than liberalism in creating peace and prosperity?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-308	Mr President, I would like to I think this is the third time in a row that Jan Björklund has asked that question. I usually refer, for example, to the Swedish folk home as a good example of how understanding of a common national identity in a country has also managed to create great prosperity. I sometimes think that Jan Björklund draws a little too much attention to the importance of liberalism. Liberalism with the liberal model of democracy and all that is something that I also endorse. In principle, everyone in this House does. There is no debate about it at all. What we are debating is that the liberal model of democracy is then abandoned in favour of identity policy and for a lot of other things that divide and create segregation in society. I believe in nationalism. I believe that every people in Europe has the right to be master in their own house. We do not need to be steered from Brussels. But we need to work together.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-311	Mr President, I would like to I ask the question again because I do not get an answer to it. There's a rift about the folks' home. I know that the folk home that Jimmie Åkesson describes meant social policy responsibility in Sweden. But it does not describe how the countries of Europe should cooperate. That's where two ideas stand against each other. It is the liberal idea of an open cooperative Europe – what Jimmie Åkesson himself describes as a soulless social liberal project. And it is nationalism, that each country should take care of itself more. They're against each other. I say that these ideas have been tried in the history of Europe. Liberalism has in one of the most disturbing prosperity people have experienced in peace and democracy. Every time nationalism has been allowed to operate in many countries and long enough in Europe, it has led to Europe's greatest disasters.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-313	Mr President, I would like to It feels like Jan Björklund doesn't know what nationalism is. Nationalism is the very basis for having some countries in Europe at all. Nationalism is the very foundation of democracy. Good luck, I say to the state that is trying to introduce democracy without any nationalist basis. Nationalism is very much the basis of the Europe that we see today with all the differences and diversity that exist. We respect all of this. Jan Björklund here talks about his liberalism, which is really something other than the Europe that we all like and support. It's all about uniformity. It is also about moving even more power to Brussels. This is clear from Jan Björklund, which I think is good. In the name of liberalism, we, all throughout Europe, are to be the same. I'm not buying this. I am a nationalist because I believe that every nation in Europe has the right to be the master of its own house. This does not mean, however, that one should always look after oneself, but that we should work together on a basis of free, independent nations.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-316	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson says over and over again that there are things he doesn't recognize. In the European Parliament, the MEPs of the Swedish Democrats have repeatedly voted against what you say you want to do. You want to give less power to Brussels. In reality, the Swedish Democrats have voted in favour of allowing the EU to collect its own taxes. You want to stand up for the transporters. In Brussels, you have voted strongly against shorter driving times and longer rest. You have voted against more money for climate research, even though you say you want it. You're talking about helping on the spot. Yet you have voted against lending Jordan to help it deal with millions of refugees in Syria. You want to fight religious oppression of women. But you are voting in Europe against women's right to abortion. The reason for this is the right to life at the moment of conception as a human right. Can you trust what SD really goes to elections on?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-323	Madam President, I would like Isabella Lövin makes a nice one here. A lot of things are being dealt with within the framework of EU cooperation or the political supranational Union that the EU nevertheless is. There are those who want to bring in even more of it. Voting against something within the EU does not mean that you are opposed to all the things that Isabella Lövin lists. Most of the time, it means that you do not think that the issue in question is something that the EU should do. Without it, it is something that every national parliament should devote itself to. That is why you may sometimes vote against what you basically think is good, but which is not something that you should decide on at European level. I want Swedish voters to decide over Swedish legislation, not Polish, Hungarian, French or Italian voters. Swedish voters should decide in Sweden.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-326	Madam President, I would like When your Members were asked why they were opposed to support for Jordan's reception of refugees, they replied that they did not have time to get to grips with everything. Therefore, they felt that it is safest to be critical of everything. I believe that the voters want value for money and that their representatives are familiar with the policies they expect. Let us take a clear example where you often refer to European level. It's about the climate issue. You do not think that Sweden should take precedence, have stricter rules or higher ambitions in Sweden. Instead, you want to move it to Europe and talk a lot about climate research yourself. It is therefore strange that you voted against increasing the EU's framework programme for research and innovation. At the same time, you voted in favour of giving a larger share of research to climate research. Can you, Jimmie Åkesson, explain how you think exactly when you refer to more climate research in Europe?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-330	Madam President, I would like Speaking of currency for money, it is a fact that we are already sending tens of billions to Brussels today. Then we get back about a third of the money. It's not getting value for the money, it's throwing the money into the lake. Then the money goes to Hungary, Poland, Bulgaria and other EU countries to build them up and their welfare. Instead, the money is needed in Sweden because people die in cancer queues. There are older people who become homeless when they cannot afford to live in a normal home. There is probably no doubt about how we prioritise when it comes to getting value for money. As far as climate research is concerned, I am not yet fully aware of what that particular vote meant. Even Isabella Lövin understands that it is completely impossible for me to be. But I'm sure that's the way it is. Read our budget! We spend a lot of money on energy research and international climate investments, things that have a real impact. We are already doing this. This does not mean, however, that we are buying the Green Party's anti-rural and anti-growth climate policy. It's something completely different.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-333	As President, I welcome the use of first and last names by the party leaders from the seats.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-334	Madam President, I would like We see too many places in Europe how animals live a life that risks making them sick, rather than a life that keeps them healthy. They live a life where the cult gets its knuckle cut so that the pig farmer can fit more pigs on the same surface, instead of giving more pigs more knuckles on life. Bad animal welfare is overpainted with antibiotics. It will be cheaper to reduce animal welfare and increase antibiotics when, instead, it should be the opposite. The Center Party wants better protection for European animals. We want to see more stringent animal welfare legislation in the EU that applies to everyone. It will provide everyone with the same high level of protection and welfare, regardless of the country in which these animals are located. Precarious animals are also a way forward to reduce the world's use of antibiotics. It is one way of defusing the ticking bomb that antibiotic resistance has become. But we need to do more to find solutions to one of the biggest challenges we face. The worst scenario in research says that by 2050 10 million people die of antibiotic resistance. It's 30 years away. These are more than those estimated to die of cancer and road accidents. The Center Party wants a global agreement to resolve the issue of antibiotic resistance. The UN has gathered the world's countries on the climate issue, no later than 2015 in Paris. It has made a real difference with concrete and binding targets where everyone takes responsibility. We want to see a Paris agreement on the subject of antibiotics. A vote in the Center Party in two and a half weeks is a vote for a stronger, driving force for healthy and safe food, for stronger animal protection throughout Europe, for more ambitious environmental and climate work, for democracy and humanity against right-wing populism.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-339	Madam President, I would like When they go low, we go high, Annie Lööf said from the speaker's chair a few hours ago when she gave her first speech. I followed a debate yesterday linked to Annie Lööf's Twitter account. She wrote this in an answer to someone else: ah, these very white men who have gone to the hard school of life have commented on me for a while and brittle ..................................................... I wonder, Madam President, whether Annie Lööf thinks this is an appropriate way of expressing herself as a party leader or as a fellow human being. Is that going high? Madam President, I would like I think this expresses a great deal of contempt. I fully understand that Annie Lööf is reacting to those who are mean and naughty to her. I think she should. I support her in that. But this is inappropriate, Madam President. Right, Annie Lööf?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-342	Madam President, I would like It's in a descriptive sense, because that's what these people usually describe themselves as. So it's a wink to the biography that a lot of those twitters have, where they actually describe themselves exactly that way. All of you who follow me know that I am passionate about diversity. I don't look at the color of my skin or the sex. I think it is important that everyone should have the same opportunities and rights. That particular answer to Twitter was therefore about what they themselves call themselves. I think that's important. But back to the question of what creates decency. It is, of course, about how we as politicians can do this in our democratic systems. There are enormous examples of Swedish democrats and politicians celebrating developments in Hungary, for example, where people are silenced, free speech is silenced and free thought is silenced. I think we should discuss this more in this House.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-344	Madam President, I would like I do not know what Hungary has to do with this particular issue. What I'd like to discuss and what I'm trying to discuss here with Annie Lööf is Annie Lööf's supposed class contempt. I think this – very clearly, in fact – expresses Annie Lööf as having a kind of contempt for people who do not have the same fine education as Annie Lööf and who do not live the same fine life as Annie Lööf. Again: I fully understand that you are reacting to internet hatred and what you are now exposed to. We're both exposed to it, and you're supposed to react. But this is something I think is strong enough, because here you pull a pretty large group of common knuckles over a comb and call them... well, I don't know what, to be honest. I think it's deeply inappropriate, and it's hardly anything that rhymes with I think Michelle Obama agrees with me on that.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-348	Madam President, I would like Anyone who follows Twitter and the comments there I think actually understand what I mean by that particular tweet. That's exactly the description that most commentators have that's inside my Twitter thread. It describes itself as just this to attack the values of humanity, openness and diversity that I and the Center Party stand for. And don't come and talk about the background and the epithet! I grew up in the Swedish countryside. I grew up with both putting potatoes and driving hay. I learned from my grandfather to drive a tractor. I grew up in an environment where we are actually doing the right thing, rolling up our sleeves and working hard. I'm the first one in my family to have an academic education. I'm very proud of that. But I'm just as proud of my siblings and cousins who work with other things.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-350	Madam President, I would like Annie Lööf! I'll first say that I admire you who remained calm in the last line shift, given the disgusting online hatred you've been exposed to when you've criticized SD. A credit for that! Now to politics. You describe yourself as a party that stands for the environment, food and climate. But if you look at the reviews of how things are going down in Brussels, you can see that something seems to have happened on the plane down. You've kind of lost that. The joint climate movement describes you as a snail who only votes 41% right while we in the Left Party vote 96% right. You are voting against the ban on carcinogenic pesticides. You are voting in favour of stringent demands for energy efficiency. You do not want to impose strict environmental requirements on agriculture as a condition for payments. What is happening there on the plane going down to Brussels? You are losing this with the climate and the environment on the way.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-354	Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, the results are absolutely crucial, both when it comes to healthy and safe food and when it comes to reducing climate emissions. Both Fredrick Federley, who is our MEP now, and Lena Ek and Kent Johansson have previously done a fantastic job of sitting at the negotiating table and negotiating sharp legislative acts. Lena Ek did it with Reach. Fredrick Federley has done it with emissions trading and tightened it up to make it cost more to release. I wonder quietly: where was the Swedish left-wing MEP when the EU's emissions trading was negotiated?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-357	Madam President, I would like Yes, when it came to REACH, I sat in the same negotiating room as Lena Ek and negotiated the same legislation. I wasn't that impressed. She ran the chemicals industry's business and watered out the whole proposal. I think it was really bad. I was sitting there, in that room. This is what I'm afraid the Center is doing – it's great slogans, but on the spot you sell yourself out to big companies. Take the proposal to ban glyphosate, which the WHO says is carcinogenic and which the Chemicals Inspectorate is very concerned about. This affects not least many farmers because it is a pesticide used in agriculture. But you're voting for it to remain. So something is happening along the way. You can't really stand being examined. These are so beautiful posters. It looks so good. But once you land at Brussels airport, you are a snail.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-361	Madam President, I would like As I said, it is the results that are the focus of our work. It is about work both in campaigns and in debates but also about actual craft work down in Brussels, here in Parliament and in negotiations with the government. It's all that way that's important. That's why we need to phase out more plastic so that we get clean seas and healthy lakes. That is why we need to reduce the use of antibiotics. There, for example, Mr Federley has been involved in negotiating the veterinary package. That is why we need to tighten up the EU's emissions trading system. We will focus on tightening up the legislative acts that exist that affect the EU Member States – including Sweden, and we think that is a good thing.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-364	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to take a line today, because we have generally had a relatively high degree of consensus in our view of the European Union. But then I read Fredrick Federley's debate article in Aftonbladet and was quite sad and sad. This is how Sara Skyttedal has expressed herself in an interview: and it is only one of these countries, Hungary and France, that has started an Article 7 procedure against, with very good reasons. It's Hungary. That is why, of course, I would prefer to work with Macron. ..................................................... The debate article in Aftonbladet reads: We are smudged with anti-Semitism, homophobes, anti-abortionists and the murder of journalists. My question to you, Annie Lööf, is: Do you think that the KD hesitates between democracy and dictatorship, that we are a threat to human rights and freedoms? I would like an answer to that question.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-368	Madam President, I would like I think there are many drastic sentences in the article published today. I'm not behind all of them. But there were quite a few – more than those who are members of the Center Party – who reacted to the article and interview with Sara Skyttedal where she could not choose crystal clear between Viktor Orbán and Emmanuel Macron. It probably has to do with Orbán's party Fidesz not being excluded now, but still being a member of the EPP. I think it is important that we all stand up for this. We have a responsibility to stand up to right-wing populism, anti-Semitism and extremism. That is what Christian Democrats do in many ways, because we are working together between Alde and EPP in this House. I would like to continue to do so in the future. But there are many with me who have seen some interviews with Sara Skyttedal where she has taken the turns.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-370	Madam President, I would like Yes, and where she refuses to deceive the Swedish people as if the elections were about Macron and Orbán. That's right, because the election isn't about that. There is another way forward, which we stand for. My question is still: Do you mean, Annie Lööf, that the KD hesitates between liberal values and dictatorships? I campaigned for paid for the knorrren. I think it is very important to have good food, good food and a high level of animal welfare. However, I am not ashamed of the fact that while you have worked hard to ensure that pigs do not get their knuckles cut off, we have had parliamentarians who have done everything they can to stop an ongoing genocide. Few parliamentarians have been in Syria and Iraq, who have seen the buildings that homosexuals have been thrown from simply because they love someone of the same sex and have seen the bullet holes that have been shot to exterminate a whole minority and persecute Christian and misbelievers Muslims.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-374	Madam President, I would like The same person has been at the hate conference and spoken. The same person has voted against women's opportunity and right to abortion. We need to see the whole picture. Our Swedish MEPs are the whole of Sweden's voice in Parliament, but we represent different parties and have different focus. The centre party's focus over the coming years will be on continuing to be a strong voice for democracy, humanity and openness and towards right-wing populism, on developing stronger animal protection for healthy and safe food and on being a strong voice for the environment and climate. There we will have a focus, and we will be happy to cooperate in the European Parliament with both the Social Democrats and the EPP, which includes the Moderates and Christian Democrats.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-377	Madam President, I would like 40% of the EU budget is agricultural subsidies. No other sector receives subsidies from the EU, but agriculture itself receives this 40%. We now have a great need to invest further in research, and we will build up border protection in the Mediterranean and around Europe, for example. This requires considerable investment. For our part, we are extremely prepared to invest more in European cooperation when needed, but the first thing to do is to think about where redistributions can be made. I note that the Centre Party is the only party in the Swedish Parliament that believes that 40%, or at least a share of that magnitude, should continue to be agricultural subsidies. I wonder why we should not move on to more liberal, market economy principles also in relation to food production.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-379	Madam President, I would like Before Sweden became a member of the EU, agricultural subsidies were paid through the Swedish budget. They do so in part today, but they decided to have a level playing field and competition neutrality in the internal market and that the agricultural budget should cover the whole of the EU and the whole of Europe. That is why it is a very large part of the EU's common budget. I don't think there's anything strange about that, and Jan Björklund is familiar with this. We want it to be more efficient and modern and that it should continue to be reformed so that there will be more focus on the environmental and climate work that Swedish farmers and other European farmers actually do. That is why we want to continue to reform it. What we think is important now is that the Swedish countryside and the Swedish farmers should not pay for Brexit, that is, when the UK leaves the EU. We need to cut back on other things, including the move carousel, the Globalisation Fund and the Social Fund. It can also make the EU budget more efficient.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-382	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of all the suggestions that Annie Lööf listed in terms of what could be more effective. But I believe that, with the liberal conception that both you and I have, if we had seen a nation plowing 40% of its budget into production aid for a sector, we would have called it socialist planned economy. It is this subsidizing that I strongly criticise in the European Union. It is true that Annie Lööf says that we used to do it ourselves in Sweden. But it wasn't better – it was socialist planned economy then too. Should we not move on to more liberal market economy principles also in relation to food production?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-384	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of liberal principles. I am in favour of reducing taxes and costs, and I am in favour of regulatory simplification. I am also in favour of ensuring that we have a strong defence and a strong preparedness. Food security is an extremely important part of strengthening defence capabilities and preparedness. Then we must ensure that we also have farmers, in Italy, France and here in Sweden, who can produce essential food. We know that economic profitability is extremely low, hardly anyone at all. It is therefore important to ensure that Swedish farmers can continue their work for biodiversity and to keep the landscapes open and produce healthy and safe food. In fact, they are at the forefront of the world in terms of antibiotic use and animal welfare, and we want them to continue to do so. For this reason, we want to modernise and streamline the EU budget, but to maintain support for Swedish rural areas and farmers.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-386	Madam President, I would like On Monday, the first international report on biodiversity, approved by 130 countries, was released. It's a really scary alarm report. Up to 1 million species are threatened in the world. Now we are very close to an EU election. Almost 40% of the EU budget is agricultural aid that goes to support agriculture. This is a very important and central issue in the European Parliament. I myself have a great deal of experience with this because I have been in Parliament for over five years. We need to ensure that EU agricultural aid goes more towards strengthening biodiversity. The Green Party proposes that 100 billion be spent also on recreating wild ecosystems. We need to reallocate from the direct payment scheme, which goes to 20% of farmers and makes up 80% of the EU's agricultural budget, to strengthening biodiversity. Is the Center up for this?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-389	Madam President, I would like The Center Party was in the alliance government a number of years ago when the current budget for, among other things, the Agricultural and Rural Fund was negotiated. An important part was to reform that budget so that more would go to active farmers, to environmental and climate improvements and to promote nature conservation, open landscapes and biodiversity. I think it is very important that the EU budget, whether it is innovation and research, agricultural aid or the Social Fund, goes towards more ecological and social sustainability. It is we politicians who should make sure that we steer in that direction.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-391	Madam President, I would like I note that Annie Lööf does not give an answer as to whether she is willing to take money for direct payments to large farms and instead give it to protect biodiversity and the restoration of wild nature such as wetlands. I also note that when environmental organisations such as the Nature Conservation Association evaluate the way our parliamentarians have voted, Fredrick Federley comes up to only about half the grade for those who have done the best in Parliament. It is a bit shaky where the Center Party actually stands, both in terms of the climate and when there is a conflict between industries, such as agriculture, and the protection of biodiversity and the species that we now see are urgently threatened with extinction. I would like to know: can voters trust that the Center Party stands up for an offensive environmental and climate policy? And are you willing to take more money from direct payments to farms and invest it in biodiversity?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-394	Madam President, I would like The answer to the question of agriculture and rural areas is that we should continue to modernise that budget. More should go to the work that farmers do for environmental and climate improvement and biodiversity, but of course there should also be a single payment scheme to ensure food production and a level playing field throughout Europe. The second question is about results and success. The Center Partyman Fredrick Federley was involved in negotiating a tightening up of the EU's emissions trading system. The four environmental partners were not active in this context. When we came to the vote, the Green Party voted against. The centre parties who negotiated this chose instead to vote in favour of a compromise, because we felt it was important that we had more stringent legislation in place. But the Green Party sat in the gallery and voted against. We reward action. Sometimes we do not reach all the way, but then we stand up for compromises. We are pragmatic, we want to move forward and we want to tighten up the environmental and climate work step by step.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-397	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The Left Party is going to elections on the best possible climate policy. It is time for the EU to shift from subsidising the fossil industry to doing what is necessary to switch to renewables. The Left Party is holding elections on employees' rights and on the EU not to impose right-wing politics on countries. The Left Party is going to elections to defend human rights and democracy where they are called into question by authoritarian governments. I can imagine that many voters are sometimes a little confused by the European debate. Sometimes parties tend to say similar things, as we could all sign up to what we say. Then there is a good trick to determine who is doing what you say, namely to look at what you have actually done in the European Parliament. Both the Climate Action Network and the World Wildlife Fund, the WWF, have examined how Members have voted on climate issues. In both reviews it is the Left Party that gets the absolute highest grade. It is the best climate party of the Swedish parties in the European Parliament. Then there is a falling scale down to the Swedish Democrats and Christian Democrats. The Left Party is consistently voting in favour of employees' rights. We stand up for the Swedish model, not only in words but also in action. And we challenge the powerful big business interests that are central to the very democratic deficit and the problem of democracy in the European Union. We need Members of the European Parliament who dare to challenge big business, to swim against the tide and to say that we need better European cooperation. That is why we need left-wing parties in the European Parliament.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-403	Madam President, I would like We need a stronger society both here in Sweden and in Europe. I and Jonas Sjöstedt agree that we need a more social Europe, in which the security of ordinary people is put at the forefront. This means that the Union must deliver in terms of more jobs, decent conditions, climate and migration, but the EU also needs to contribute to greater security and security. Organised crime and terrorism have no borders. We and other Member States can fight this much better together than individually. It is therefore important that the authorities also have access to the information they need and that they have information cooperation so that serious crime and terrorism can be identified and prevented. However, the Left Party votes against the prevention of the spread of terrorism content online and against a directive on combating terrorism, and does not support the European Parliament's initiative to prevent the radicalisation of European citizens. Why is that, Jonas Sjöstedt?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-406	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven! The Left Party is a party that asserts personal integrity and the rule of law. This is particularly important in periods of rapid legislative change in a more strict direction. It is a difficult balance that every responsible politician has to do but that we sometimes feel quite alone about. Nor is it clear that more centralism and information exchange are always beneficial. Take the very topical discussion on the EU Public Prosecutor's Office and the fight against terrorism. There our own security police say that it advises against taking over investigations and having mandatory superiors of the spirit of tasks. It is a serious situation that parties directly linked to Russia and Putin are in government positions in, for example, Austria. Well, I guess you'd better be careful. Then you have to put national interests first and not just promise to share everything anyway.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-408	Madam President, I would like It is clear that personal integrity is central, but I am absolutely convinced that it is possible to balance that interest and ensure that the key actors, not least the police and others, are given what they need to identify terrorism and crime. I visited Europol in The Hague a while ago. They clearly demonstrated the link between, for example, increased drug imports in Portugal and Spain and more killings across Europe, including Sweden. They show very clearly how valuable this cooperation is. I was able to see on the ground how valuable it is for us also to prevent serious crimes and terrorism. But then the police must have access to the tools and information they need to do just that. Does the Left also not see the need for further cooperation on our important security issues, so that the citizens of Europe can feel safe?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-411	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister. Yes, we are happy to cooperate on police matters. We also think it necessary for security services to cooperate closely with each other, not least in these times of terrorism. But this does not require a European FBI or a European CIA – it requires cooperation between national authorities. However, there are two lines that need to be drawn. We must ultimately be able to decide what is best for Swedish law enforcement and security. We cannot agree to far-reaching obligations that prevent us from deciding this. And we need to protect personal integrity at a time when very comprehensive registers of sensitive personal data are being built up, including for persons who are not suspected of crime. There I sometimes think the government has gone a little far. That's where we held back. But we agree on one thing: we shall continue to work together to combat terrorism and crime.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-414	Madam President, I would like It is very posing about extremism in Swedish politics right now. One of the more flagrant examples was the Left Party's own campaign pictures for the EU elections, where you wear a left-wing, violent Afa sweater. I wonder if it was a coincidence. What has Jonas Sjöstedt done about this until now? Nothing, as far as I know. Your top candidate suggested in the P1 hearing on the radio this morning a retouching of the poster. It was a little original. A party that fully understands the limits of democracy had immediately reacted and apologized. This is not the first time you've been in the wrong company. The Left Party uses the elections in the EU to promote violent extremism. My question is very simple: will Jonas Sjöstedt ensure that the picture is removed?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-416	Madam President, I would like Ulf Kristersson talks about political posing, and then he stands here posing and pretending that he doesn't know better. Why could that unfortunate picture be taken? Because you can't see what's on your shirt. So does Ulf Kristersson. That's the way it is. That goes without saying. If it had been seen, the picture would never have been taken. But you can't see what's on your shirt. It's a little excited youth federation rhetoric to say it's in some other way. But if you want to tackle real democratic problems, Ulf Kristersson, I think you should visit the corridor neighbours in the EPP corridor in the European Parliament in Brussels and Strasbourg. Go and talk to them about what the situation is like in Hungary! The Hungarians never left the group. They were given a little warning, or whatever it was, but they are still in the EPP Group. There you can talk about seriously restricting democracy. And that is what is real that we should be talking about in this debate.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-419	Madam President, I would like I'm happy to talk about what's real. What is real is that we act when people commit atrocities in European politics. We are shutting down a party from Hungary which we think does not work in the EPP. You talk about others, but you let through the disgustingness when they're close to you. This isn't the first time Afa's ever got into the bullet hole near you. You have a blind spot. Left extremism you can see between your fingers, but all other extremism is down on you. I don't think you're credible when you accuse other people of extremism if you don't keep your own house clean.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-422	Madam President, I would like The left is crystal clear on these issues. We hate and fight political violence. It does not belong in a democracy. You, Ulf Kristersson, know just like I do that the picture would never have been taken if it had been seen what was on the sweater. But you can't see it. That is the problem. You pretend it's some other way, and I think it's dishonest. You may have turned Fidesz off, but you have not excluded them from the group. Who knows what happens after the election? You couldn't do your homework properly. After all, they remain with you, those who are in fact openly anti-Semitic, who restrict the freedom of the media and close universities that are displeasing. They are in the same corridor as the Swedish Moderates.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-425	Madam President, I would like I was upset before, but when I hear Jonas Sjöstedt answer Ulf Kristersson I don't know if I should cry. It was one of the pitifulest explanation or explanation I've heard in my whole life-- you didn't see what it said on your shirt. What a joke! The first explanations I read said: We do not know who the person is. Does Jonas Sjöstedt really want us to believe that they do not know who it is? Do you let a person who is not familiar with be on the Left Party election posters for the European elections? It is clear that Jonas Sjöstedt does not take this seriously. On 1 May in Umeå, Jonas Sjöstedt's future hometown, they demonstrated with communists. A simple googling indicates that this is something that the Left Party has been doing over the whole country for many years. How does Jonas Sjöstedt view this? How do you view extremism and communism?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-428	Madam President, I would like I've explained that to you a number of times. It has nothing to do with our policy. But Jimmie Åkesson is not the right person to raise others in these matters. It is a sort of routine that it is revealed how Swedish democrats are evicting racist insolence against others from anonymous troll accounts, which for some strange reason are always hijacked at the time. Wasn't your party founded by an old volunteer for the SS once? Is it not the case that you have had to turn off several candidates because they happened to be Nazis at the same time as they were Swedish democrats? It is your own party, Jimmie Åkesson, that is used that way. I don't think you're the right person to raise others on these issues.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-431	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt can think what he wants. Now we were talking about Jonas Sjöstedt's own party. What Jonas Sjöstedt is now throwing at me, we have discussed on several occasions. The difference, Madam President, between me and my party and Jonas Sjöstedt and his party is that we are acting. We act for real when it is discovered that members or representatives have a different ideological view. The Left Party doesn't. Instead, you stand here and ralli and throw the question back. You don't take your connections to obvious extremism, violent extremism, seriously. This is of great concern to me, particularly since I belong to a party whose representatives have been subjected on several occasions to precisely AFa's domestic and street violence. I have a simple question, Madam President, to Jonas Sjöstedt: can you be a member of the Left Party if you are a Communist?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-434	Madam President, I would like The Left Party is a party of democratic socialists. They are welcome to join the Left Party when they share our basic view. I am glad that we have left Communism behind, and I am part of that transformation. But I think you've succeeded significantly worse with your transformation. That zero tolerance only applies sometimes, not if someone has power in the party and not if someone is too important to the party. Then you can make Jewish jokes that come out. Then you can sing songs on Finnish ferries. Then you can say both one and the other from your troll accounts to political opponents. There's an abyss between us, Jimmie Åkesson.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-436	Madam President, I would like One thing I appreciate with the Left Party is their consistent line. You know where you have them, at least in terms of fiscal policy. As long as the Left Party is allowed to raise taxes on businesses, goods and people, it does not matter whether it is done by municipalities, by the regions, by the state or by the EU. Only new taxes are introduced and existing taxes are raised, the Left Party is satisfied. From a rapid exit from the EU, the Left Party has become a force for EU taxes. They want a progressive aviation tax in the Union, binding and designed at EU level. And since before, they want a Tobin tax on financial transactions at EU level. Jonas Sjöstedt! How does the EU get better for ordinary people of EU taxes? How is a Europe for all created by shifting power from Sweden to Brussels and by shifting power further away from people?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-439	Madam President, I would like Annie Lööf! No, the Left Party is not in favour of any EU taxes. We believe that taxation rights belong at national level. We are in favour of maintaining the right of veto in the area of taxation, in the areas that the EU may concern. Furthermore, the EU should not levy taxes or taxes directly on its own budget. However, there is an urgent need to coordinate the Member States in order to tackle climate emissions and to combat financial speculation. This can be done through far-reaching binding tax cooperation without giving the EU the right to tax, and that is exactly what we are doing. At EU level, it is probably Annie Lööf who is prepared to spend tax money while the Left Party is careful with the money. We are the ones who do not want to add tens of billions of dollars to the EU budget. My question to Annie Lööf is: Are you prepared to really add the veto to ensure that Sweden's membership fee to the EU is not increased?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-443	Madam President, I would like The Center Party does not want payments to the EU to increase. We want to make that budget more efficient and modern. There are many parts there that you can really cut back on. The moving carousel between Brussels and Strasbourg is one, for example. But there are more areas. However, we do not think that the Swedish countryside should pay for Brexit. But again to the increase and reduction of taxes. The Left Party therefore wants the EU to force Member States to introduce certain taxes but says that it is not an EU tax. The difference is, to say the least, semantic. The left side is very easy to recognize. As long as something moves, it should be taxed. Companies, people and goods should have higher taxes, and you want binding legislation at European level. What really is the difference between an EU tax and an EU-wide mandatory tax for Member States? And how do decisions at European level on this issue bring power closer to ordinary people?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-446	Madam President, I would like The difference is very large and clear. The money goes to the nations, and the regulations are owned by the nations, but it is agreed within the framework of the EU or within the framework of cooperation between the EU countries. I think Annie Lööf underestimates the danger of financial speculation and the need for strong action on the climate. Coordination is needed here. There is also a need for considerable supranationality in some cases. I believe that this is necessary in Europe, and it is also globally. Then I can only reflect on the fact that, like the Moderates earlier today, the Center Party says that it does not want to spend more billions on the EU budget. But none of the parties are prepared to say: then we will be hard on it. My impression is that it is in fact Annie Lööf and the Center Party who are prepared to waste more tax money on both parliamentary relocations and agricultural subsidies that can sometimes not be defended.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-449	Madam President, I would like I listened to the shift between Jonas Sjöstedt and Jimmie Åkesson, where they accused each other of not cleaning the parties from extremism. I just want to say that I agree with both. Madam President, I would like I am against EU membership – so said Jonas Sjöstedt in an interview in Expressen last year, during the election campaign, on 22 August. He was asked how he would vote if Parliament were to vote on svexit? He first talked around, but the journalist didn't give up. Finally, Jonas Sjöstedt said: Yes, I am voting in favour of svexit. Then I have to ask Jonas Sjöstedt: what is so bad about the European Union that Jonas Sjöstedt today – I know he voted against 25 years ago – would vote in favour of svexit?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-452	Madam President, I would like It seems to Jan Björklund that he thinks he is bringing great news when he tells me that I have voted against EU membership and have been critical of the EU. It's not much news, Jan Björklund. I think it is well known among many who have followed Swedish politics. I think that Europe has a great lack of democracy. I do not believe in putting the free market above other considerations. I don't like the military and so on. That is why I want to change the European Union, along with other left-wing forces. Jan Björklund is also well aware that the Left Party does not go to elections to Sweden to leave the EU but to change this particular direction. It is about the democratic and equal approach that we have. Then I think that Jan Björklund is guilty of a big mistake when he equates democratic socialism with racism. It's normalizing racism. I think you should think about both who you tour with and how to argue.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-456	Madam President, I would like I am taking the debate with those who are opposed to European cooperation. I'll take the debate with Jimmie Åkesson. I even took the debate round with Jonas Sjöstedt before the last elections. We both survived it, but we had different opinions. I dare to take the debate. Jonas Sjöstedt! It is nothing new that you voted against the EU 25 years ago. It's no news that you spent all your time being a Member of the European Parliament criticizing everything was wrong. It's not news. The news is that today you would vote in favour of svexit, when you stand in the speaker's seat and say that you are in favour of supranationality and that you should have climate taxes and all that is. In the run-up to the autumn elections, you wanted to attract those on the left who are critical of the European Union, and now you want to attract environmentalists. Therefore, you have completely different messages depending on who you are talking to and what month you are speaking. There is a word for it in Swedish, Jonas Sjöstedt. It's hypocrisy.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-459	Madam President, I would like I do not think there is anyone in Swedish politics who has changed 180 degrees as many times as Jan Björklund. First, military service is abolished, then military service is reintroduced. First, the rescue police will be abolished, then the rescue police will be reinstated. First they speak out against risk capital companies at school – then they are for risk capital companies at school. I could stand and line up examples for half an hour and therefore think that you should be gentle with the words. It is that we have a new political situation. The climate threat is acute. The threat from right-wing extremism is acute. In that situation, we are not, and will not be, pushing in the coming years for Sweden to leave the EU. We will go in to change Europe. Somewhere it is as if this pains Jan Björklund. Everything must be as it was 25 years ago. And the arguments on that side have not evolved since then!
i-9baf033e5e32134f-0	It was August. )
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-463	Madam President, I would like When it comes to climate policy, I am the first to be very happy that more parties than the Green Party want to compete to be the best environmental party. I would nevertheless like Jonas Sjöstedt to stick to the truth when he commends the Left Party for having the best environmental rating of all parties according to the Nature Conservation Association. That's not true. Malin Björk received 91% of the points, while our parliamentarians received 97%. So what Jonas Sjöstedt says is not true. The most important election issue of the Left Party in 2014 was the environment and climate. Yet Malin Björk did not choose to sit in one of the committees in Parliament that really deals with legislation and the environment – not the Energy Committee, not the Transport Committee, not the Agriculture Committee, not the Environment Committee and not even the Committee on Fisheries. It was quite other committees that are certainly not working on these issues. Will the Left Party invest in sitting on those committees this time?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-467	Madam President, I would like Yes, I can give Isabella Lövin here and now. Our party has already decided that this is our absolute objective: the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, first and foremost the Committee on Transport, which is also an important committee on the environment. During this debate, I have referred to the Climate Action Network and the World Wildlife Fund rankings. The Left Party is the highest of all Swedish parties. In fact, we are one of the best parties of all parties in the 28 Member States on the climate issue. Not only do you get the best voices, but you can also get a lot of activity in this area. What surprises me when you read the review from the Climate Action Network is that the Green Party – which is one of the better parties, for which you should certainly have recognition – is worse than the average in the Green Group. Why are you brakes in the green group? We are, of course, moving the left forward on the climate issue, but you are one of the poorer parties in the Green Group on the climate issue.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-470	Madam President, I would like The Climate Action Network is watching 21 votes. The Swedish Nature Protection Association looks much more broadly at what work the various parliamentarians have really done in Parliament, what legislation they have pushed forward and how they have voted. That's where the Green Party gets the highest score of all. Some of these statistics also refer to who has been on parental leave and has not attended certain votes, and that must be taken into account. But what is clear to the voters is that if you vote for the Green Party, you get parliamentarians who sit down in the committees that really make a difference to the environment and climate, work out legislation and really push the issue forward. You don't just sit and press the right button in plenary and follow the voting lists that the Greens produce and that we gladly share with Malin Björk and Left Party when it comes to. I would like to ask Jonas Sjöstedt again: will you really give priority to the environment and climate when you sit on the committees?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-473	Madam President, I would like My answer to Isabella Lövin is yes. Anyone who wants to do that work in the European Parliament will be needed. It is also of great importance how to actually vote in the legislation. That is what determines the rules. There, the Left Party votes clearly better than the Green Party, and that is a fact in these evaluations. I believe that the Green Party should be somewhat cautious about talking about what it has done and has not done. We have not sold coal mines to Czech venture capitalists. We are not in favour of Tvärtändning Södertörn but want to invest in rail and public transport instead. We are not behind the expansion of Arlanda, which is based on doubling air traffic in Sweden. I am happy to discuss what we are doing and what we are not doing in climate policy.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-477	Madam President, I would like Now I have listened to all the speeches and lines so far, and I have to admit that I lack the balance that I called for in my main speech – the balance between making Europe stronger on cross-border issues and, in general, allowing the EU to step back and let the Member States take care of themselves. The reason why I am raising this issue and why it is such a crucial part of the Christian Democrats' election movement is because we are deeply concerned. I think we have had a good example today of how to deal with the issue of subsidiarity rather carelessly. We are being accused here today of being against abortion just because we have said no to turning the issue of the right to abortion into an EU issue. We are in favour of Swedish abortion legislation, but we think it should be Swedish. We do not want Poland's, for example. I believe that the best way to combat populism is not by deliberately misunderstanding, dangering and misleading. That is not how we fight populism, but with truth and honesty. This is indeed a matter of destiny if we want to keep the Union together for the future. We heard when the Liberal leader of the European Parliament, Mr Guy, shouted that the problem is the country's hesitation in transferring sovereignty and power to the Union and when he distanced himself from a loose confederation with the nation states left in the driver's seat. We have seen the British take their decision to leave the Union, and we are seeing the escalation between anti-European forces. Is it so difficult to understand the need for balance and to protect what decisions should be made at EU level and what belongs in Sweden? Are the Christian Democrats really alone in wanting a Europe that is just enough to safeguard the support and legitimacy of the European Union for the future?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-482	Madam President, I would like Like the Moderates, the Christian Democrats are trying to stop any attempt to improve employees' conditions and put an end to the exploitation of people. When Christian Democrats in other countries choose to work for better living conditions for all European citizens – and I work with Christian Democrats in other countries to increase security, better jobs, equality and equality – then the Christian Democrats vote no. On the other hand, it may not be surprising, because the Christian Democrats have opposed, in principle, every step we have taken in favour of greater equality and equality at home and when your MEPs do not even stand up for women's right to abortion. How is it that Christian Democrats in other countries understand the importance and need of social reforms for equality and gender equality, while the Christian Democrats here oppose this both in Sweden and in the EU?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-485	Madam President, I would like Once again, the Prime Minister has made some factual errors that I have already corrected in my introductory speech. So I'm not going to repeat it. I do not know whether the Prime Minister is now following, for example, the issue of posting or the recently adopted Working Conditions Directive. Is that what you're talking about? We Christian Democrats in Sweden have learned quite a lot from the process that we have recently had and where we finally managed to elbow an exception for Swedish collective agreements, while the trade union movement and the Prime Minister's own government were worried all the way along this round of negotiations. Have you not learned anything from how isolated Sweden was in the Council of Ministers and how close it was that we were unable to protect the Swedish model and the right of Swedish workers to have their own model for how we handle labour market issues in Sweden?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-488	Madam President, I would like For the Christian Democrats, it is not about where decisions are made, but you have voted against more equal parental insurance here in Sweden and in the European Union. You introduced a custody allowance here in Sweden, which actually means that women are withdrawn from the home and do not enter the labour market. You voted against the social pillar in Europe. Equality and equality are fundamental values in a democracy. We are currently seeing developments where values are threatened and challenged by right-wing extremists. It is important that everyone resists this, and then it is a little worrying to hear the Christian Democrats' elections. I note that Ebba Busch Thor says that she does not usually take a line on Annie Lööf because they tend to take the same view. She does not take a line on the Swedish Democrats, and she is prepared to cooperate with far-right parties in Sweden and in the EU. What's so Christian about that, Ebba Busch Thor?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-491	Madam President, I would like I think the Prime Minister beats hello wildly rather unworthy and unprecist in his line. I don't really know what to face. I think it is important for a good Christian Democrat, who also stands up for Christian values but not for any specific religion, to defend what is the fundamental idea of the European Union, namely to ensure peace through trade. This project is now under threat, partly because of super-statists who naively believe that it is possible to move the area by area to the EU level and believe that the Swedish people and other countries within the EU will continue to support the EU. We have seen what has happened in Britain if you go that way, and I am not prepared to go that way. On the issue of quotas for parental leave, I stand up because we women are so smart that we can actually decide on parental leave ourselves with the partner we live with. I do not want to be slapped on the head either here or through parental leave quotas in Sweden or in the EU.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-494	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats make a big point of adequate national competence and subsidiarity. As in an event, it is always most important that it is appropriate when it is a matter of something that makes it better for ordinary people because then you can use it as an argument to vote against, just as you always do in the parliament in the same area. However, in one area logic falls, namely the demand for a social protocol in the EU. A social protocol would mean that Swedish labour law, legislation and collective agreements, have priority over EU law, so that the EU, as in Laval, for example, cannot go in and worsen the conditions for those who work here in Sweden. It is therefore a direct protection for the Swedish model, for Swedish contract law, for Swedish legislation, which reduces the EU's power over Swedish politics but which increases employees' security and influence. But then the Christian Democrats say no. The EU will then enter with its long fingers and poke in various cases in Swedish courts. Where's the logic?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-497	Madam President, I would like It is a question of attacking the issue from the beginning, for example, by saying that we want to protect the European construction that exists, not by weakening it by embarking on a new winged journey where a whole new pillar will be erected when there is not enough statute for the pillars that already exist. We think that this is the wrong way to go with, for example, the social pillar, because it is a question of competences that should not be at European level. If skills are not transferred in this area, there is not the same need to secure in other areas. That is why it is so important to keep on the issue of subsidiarity, that is, the right decision at the right decision-making level.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-499	Madam President, I would like Ebba Busch Thor says that the party is attacking the issue from another direction. I think it is from the right that the issue is being attacked. The conclusion is always that what is worst for employees is what the Christian Democrats put forward as their position regardless of logic. I have not mentioned the social pillar in the debate, but I have mentioned the social protocol. The protocol would mean that there would be less EU influence over Swedish labour law, more to decide in your own house, less cleavage and better union rights. It would solve problems that we have had for decades before the social pillar was even discussed. But suddenly the Christian Democrats say they don't want to. I do not think it is a question of principles; it is a question of right-wing politics taking precedence and of workers' rights always taking second place.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-502	Madam President, I would like Yes, Jonas Sjöstedt, it is precisely about the principles and to ensure that the decisions that have been taken at European level are in fact followed by all the countries of the European Union, including Sweden. But then we have to make sure that we let Europe decide only on things that we are prepared to back up. Now we have had a new discussion on regulations, on which parts of collective agreements and conditions for workers should apply to workers across the Union. A line has been won that extends this to more parts, not just the hard core of the collective agreement. This is another example of how Swedish workers risk getting caught when moving up even more decision-making rights at EU level and no one can really answer what it will mean for Swedish employees and Swedish workers. Make sure that decisions are kept at the right decision-making level, and we do not need to have this kind of discussion any more.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-505	Madam President, I would like Climate policy is major and important in the EU election movement. An important part of climate policy is energy policy. I think it is good that there is now a renewed energy policy debate in Sweden. What is national and what is European? Yeah, it's connected. If you close down your own power plants, you have to import electricity from other countries. That's what's happening. I very much welcome the statements made by Ebba Busch Thor, so it is not the statements I intend to reply to, but more how we proceed. There is a major conflict between you and the energy agreement that five parties, including KD, entered into a couple of years ago. The worst thing we can do in the near future is close Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2. Then we will have to import German coal power and Russian gas in the next step, and we will become dependent on carbon dioxide-based energy sources. The Liberals put forward a proposal in the Committee on Economic Affairs a few weeks ago to save Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2, and the Christian Democrats voted against it. I thought I'd hear about the motive for that.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-510	Madam President, I would like The climate issue is indeed a matter of destiny. When you do not deal with this issue properly, it spills over in so many other areas as well. That is why our main focus is on phasing out coal and gas completely from the energy mix within the EU. Nuclear energy is a crucial part of this in the future. As Jan Björklund rightly points out, we are against the early closure of Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2 in Sweden. We would rather see, to the extent that Sweden finds itself in a surplus of power and electricity, that electricity is exported to Europe and that coal power plants in Germany are being shut down. If we can cooperate specifically on Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2 in Sweden, I would be happy to do so. This also applies to how we can make it easier for more nuclear power plants to be built in the EU as a whole.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-513	Madam President, I would like That is exactly what I understand Ebba Busch Thor has been saying since the election campaign last autumn. That is why I was so surprised that the Christian Democrats voted 'no' when the proposal was on the table of the Committee on Economic Affairs. The Christian Democrats, together with the Green Party, the Centre Party and other opponents of nuclear power, voted against the proposal to save Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2. I understand it depends on the energy agreement. But in the end, KD has to choose. Either you stick to the energy agreement, and then the nuclear power plants will be shut down, or you will have to vote to save them. It is not possible to draw the issue on a long bench because the reactors will be shut down quite soon. I sincerely hope that if we take a new initiative that you are prepared to vote to save Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2. Are you?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-516	Madam President, I would like To the listeners, I would like to say that Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2 account for 10 percent of Swedish electricity production. It would be bad if it disappeared in the coming years. That's why we're here to save the reactors if possible. The problem is that the committee initiative taken by the Liberals contained almost half of Jan Björklund's party leader. What was possibly missing was the earth-rounding snail that coffees in Ulan Bator. So maybe, if we can get some idea that's a little narrower, that doesn't focus on so many things, but that specifically deals with Ringhals 1 and Ringhals 2, it can become a workshop for real. I'd love to.
i-9baf033e5e32134f-1	Then we'll present it tomorrow. )
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-518	Madam President, I would like Let us talk about family policy, equality and women's rights. Let's talk about the right to love who you want, decide over your own body and believe in what you want. These issues are more important than ever, because people's rights are now threatened by conservative and right-wing forces in the EU that want to restrict abortion rights and LGBT people's rights. It is the same conservative forces with which both the Christian Democrats and the Moderates cooperate in the EU. You would like to point out that Fidesz is a party that is not to be part of the European party group EPP, Ebba Busch Thor, but at the same time Orbán Fidesz is still in Parliament's group and is voting just like you. Will the Christian Democrats continue to cooperate with Orbán Fidesz through the EPP Group in the European Parliament, or is it just a diversion that you have done?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-520	Madam President, I would like No, it's not a diversion. It was the Swedish Christian Democrats who, in this round, were the first to ascribe to our group – the Christian Democratic Group in the European Parliament, which is the largest – and to state that Fidesz can no longer be kept in the group. Then we have worked closely with the Moderates in Sweden, which led to solid support within the EPP for Fidesz to be turned off from the group. That is where we reached it, and we will continue to work for them to leave the group also in the European Parliament.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-521	Madam President, I would like The groups in this Parliament that you sit in and with which you cooperate are important. Today you are still sitting with Fidesz in the European Parliament, Ebba Busch Thor, despite what you have declared outwards. They're still in the group, and you're still working together. You have put them on hold in the great European party cooperation. It is a completely different signal content than the signals you have sent so far. Then you would like to talk about taking major cross-border issues at European level. Climate is one such issue. Lars Adaktusson receives as bad a grade as SD in all climate assessments. He has voted against investment in electric cars, and he has voted against strengthening the emission standard for heavy goods vehicles. He has voted against reducing the supply of emission allowances, thus pushing up the price to release. How do you intend to carry out climate action at European level, Ebba Busch Thor? Is nuclear power the answer?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-523	Madam President, I would like Yes, in part nuclear energy is actually the answer. The energy mix in the European Union today consists of 40% of coal and gas, and our objective is crystal clear: we want to eliminate the use of coal and gas completely. This requires more renewable energy. Solar and wind power are an important part of this, but that will not be enough. If we are to be able to switch the entire fleet of vehicles to electricity and if we are to cope with electrification of the entire base industry – even in countries other than Sweden – more electricity is required, not less. They must be emission-free, and they need to be delivery-proof. One must be able to answer the question how much electricity can be delivered by kl. 14 on Thursday in two weeks' time, and so far you can only answer that when it comes to nuclear power. So we need both renewable energy and zero-emission nuclear energy. There we can work together on simpler approval processes within the European Union.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-526	I would welcome it if the party leaders, like the other Members, spoke to each other with their first and last names in the debate.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-527	Madam President, I would like The decision to join the EU, which was taken in 1994, is perhaps the most important decision Sweden has taken in the post-war period. The importance of EU cooperation for our country cannot be overestimated. It has meant a massive increase in economic growth and prosperity, and it has meant that we live in a stable environment of peace and democracy around us. In this debate, I am struck by the fact that almost everyone agrees with what I describe as positive. This thing about Europe is so amazing! Then everyone agrees on one more thing, and that is interesting to hear. For everyone says this: The decisions that can only be resolved through cooperation at international level are to be made in the European Union, but the others are to be made here at home. That's what everyone says. So it is no use for us to mess with each other about that particular statement, because everyone thinks so. Instead, the conflict of objectives lies in the fact that we have different views on what international cooperation is required and not. What I note is that everyone is saying that we should do more for the climate at international level. Everyone is talking about jobs, welfare and the financial crisis, and everyone is talking about fighting crime. Everyone is talking about refugee policy. Everyone talks about how we should cooperate and that these are issues that really belong in international cooperation – but when it comes down to it, most parties here are voting against such cooperation and action. It concerns a common European FBI, a public prosecutor, the euro cooperation, a financial pact, a banking union, defence cooperation and so on. You vote no when it comes down to it. The words about working together on issues that each country cannot solve separately mean nothing when it comes to it. We must be prepared to release the sarga and try to solve these problems now. We need to solve the economic problems and challenges in Europe before the next financial crisis comes. Right now, the problems are not great, because it is booming, but before the next financial crisis comes, we need to work more together on the economy and stability. We need to solve the problems before the next refugee crisis comes, and we need to tackle the climate crisis – because it is already here.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-531	Madam President, I would like I usually say that I have the greatest respect for the Liberals and Jan Björklund when it comes to these issues, because the Liberals are the only party that publicly actually stands for what you think almost fully. However, I was a little disappointed when I saw the Liberal election posters for the European elections, because they say that we should be able to study, work, travel and live in Europe. But that is not what you really want, Jan Björklund, but you want to send a lot of power to Brussels so that they can decide more about us. That's what you really want, and you should sign the election posters. What I do not quite understand is why the Liberals are prepared to send at least 15 billion more of our tax money to Brussels. 15 billion corresponds almost to our entire guarantee pension scheme. This corresponds to cancer care in Sweden. This money is much more useful in Sweden. Why does Jan Björklund want to send more money to Brussels?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-533	Madam President, I would like No one wants to send funds for cooperation in Europe that we do not get anything out of. Instead, the question is what we want Europe to do; that is what it is basically about. I even heard Jimmie Åkesson, who really wants Sweden to leave the EU, say that he wants to build border protection in the Mediterranean and around Europe. So do we. It will cost a great deal of resources, because the Mediterranean requires ships, helicopters, aircraft and everything. We want to build a common European FBI, as it is called, thus a much more extensive law enforcement capacity. It will also cost resources. As you heard earlier, Jimmie Åkesson, I am prepared to gradually cut back on agricultural subsidies. I am not prepared to send more money than is needed, but I am honest – more honest than a number of other parties, I would say – that we will have to invest something more in European cooperation than so far, precisely because we want to cooperate on more issues and in more areas. So it is not a question of sending more money for the joy of sending money, it is a question of being prepared to allocate resources if we want the European Union to do more in areas where resources are actually needed.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-536	Madam President, I would like I am buying the reasoning, and since Jan Björklund and the Liberals want Europe to do almost everything, we can take the whole state budget, send it to Brussels and let them do everything. It would probably be very effective, and then we could all go home. These EUR 15 billion are, of course, what it would cost extra when Britain leaves the EU. Then Jan Björklund will spend another huge amount of money on everything the EU is going to do if the Liberals are allowed to decide, so then it is not 15 billion we are talking about. How many more billions are we supposed to send to Brussels?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-538	Madam President, I would like Jimmie Åkesson refers to a position that I just said is not mine. I think we should redistribute substantially within the EU budget. There is the large amount of agricultural aid, and the second is the stabilisation funds. There is quite a lot of money that can be redistributed, and that also applies to the move between Strasbourg and Brussels. So I want to redistribute, but my assessment is that it will still not be enough. When it comes to everything being controlled from Brussels: I am sorry, but it is 8 per mil of Sweden's bnp we are paying today for the EU to do a number of things. If the Commission's proposal goes through, it will probably be 2 - 3 more per mil. However, I do not think it does; there will be something in between. Finally, it is determined by what the money is spent. If they are going to further build border protection, to maritime protection, to sea rescue in the Mediterranean and to European law enforcement, I am prepared to set aside money. On the other hand, I am not prepared to spend money on additional agricultural subsidies.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-541	Madam President, I would like The Liberals have had a somewhat messy prelude to the electoral movement. Cecilia Wikström had had side assignments with very generous remuneration and had to stop being the main candidate. The second on the list – Said Abdu, who is still there – has made itself known for being a partner in a restaurant that blew the employees off their salaries. One thing that I do not think has received sufficient attention is that the Liberals are the group in the European Parliament that receives the most money from large companies in order for them to have the opportunity to influence politics. Among those who give money to the Liberal Group in order to influence the group are Monsanto – a notorious chemical giant who is involved in several worrying environmental issues. There is also Google, known to avoid tax both here and there, and Uber, known to avoid all that labour law is called. These companies are therefore giving money to the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party. Is this entirely appropriate, Jan Björklund?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-544	Madam President, I would like People have a very different view of this type of issue in different parts of Europe, you have to say. We in Sweden have much higher demands that the kind of suspicion that Jonas Sjöstedt casts out should not be able to be pronounced. We do not accept this type of subsidy, but parties in Europe have a different view. That is how it works in European cooperation. I would also like to distance myself strongly from the description given by Jonas Sjöstedt of the background of Said Abdus. It is not correct; it is incorrect. With regard to the substance of the matter that Jonas Sjöstedt asked about, there are different approaches in Europe to this sort of thing. We have much stricter requirements in Sweden and Scandinavia than in southern Europe, for example. When you're going to work together, there are sometimes compromises.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-548	Madam President, I would like I would like to draw Jan Björklund's attention to the fact that this is not about money for other parties but about money for the Liberal Group, where the Liberals are part of it. It is therefore money that indirectly also benefits the Liberals as they go to their party group. In 2018, it was EUR 122 000, i.e. over SEK 1 million, from these highly challenged large companies. The group's representative, interviewed in Le Monde, defended this system. Large companies openly say that they have access to the group and the opportunity to be on panels. They are thus given the opportunity to have a direct influence on this group. I believe that this is a typical example of the unhealthy growth of large companies that want their way through and naive European politicians who are willing to accept money in exchange for the companies' access to it. Will you put an end to this, Jan Björklund?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-552	Madam President, I would like I do not know the examples that you, Jonas Sjöstedt, are taking up and cannot possibly speak about them. The Members of our party who are standing and who we are prepared to send to the European Parliament have a very high level of integrity. I often meet companies and entrepreneurs. Some of them may vote for my party, and some vote for other parties. There may not be many who vote for Jonas Sjöstedt's party, but for other parties. Listening to them doesn't mean they decide what to think in here-- that's what I actually decide myself-- and they don't like everything we do. You have to be able to connect with the environment. It's not all a suspect. You have to be able to listen to companies, organisations, individuals, citizens and all kinds of actors and have meetings with them without anything suspicious and shady. After all, it is part of our representative democracy – we represent the whole of Europe.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-555	Madam President, I would like We should take this opportunity to talk about Europe once we can. I thought we'd talk about taxes. Unlike other parties in this House, the Liberals are open, straight and clear that they want to be able to give the EU the right to levy taxes on us and that such a decision can be taken without unanimity. In a way, it is a bit entertaining: Liberals will be happy to let the Social Democrats rule Sweden if only the tax on the highest incomes is removed, but at EU level their tax criticism is rather blown away. They claim that it is only one tax – the one on carbon dioxide – but, of course, everyone realises that if the EU is given the right to levy taxes, the EU will not stop at a single tax. In addition, the Liberals are open to shock raising the membership fee and see no problem with it. I understand that Jan Björklund does not think the EU should be adequate; it has emerged. My question is: how much will the non-law of the Liberals on the EU be allowed to cost? Is there a limit to the membership fee? And does Jan Björklund think it will stop at a treasure?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-559	Madam President, I would like I can only take responsibility for what we vote for. As far as climate emissions are concerned, we are prepared to put a common European carbon tax on this. If other parties want to pursue other things – for example, the EPP Group, in which Ebba Busch Thors' party participates, which is in favour of common tax law and which wants several other taxes – we are not prepared to do so. We are prepared to vote in favour of a common CO2 tax. The reason for this is that the climate is something else. Income taxes and all sorts of things manage each country itself, but the climate is in common. It does not help that we in Sweden have a high carbon tax, which has pushed down our emissions, when Poles, Czechs and others emit a lot of carbon dioxide. They have no tax at all on CO2 emissions. We know that CO2 taxation is pushing emissions down, and that is why we need it in common in Europe. It's kind of like when, a few years ago, we agreed on emission allowances-- those were the same objections. But it has proved to have had an effect, and it can be further screwed up. It simply depends on the seriousness of the climate problem. The combination of a European carbon tax and the maintenance of nuclear power would really have an effect.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-563	Madam President, I would like I agree with the final point on nuclear power. We in the Christian Democrats also believe that it is right to do more and to continue working on the issue of emission allowances. It is possible that at the moment the Liberals are only for one EU tax – the one on carbon dioxide. However, as Jan Björklund rightly pointed out, the Liberals are not the only political force in Europe. The Commission has proposed the abolition of a veto in this area with a view to obtaining a supranational corporation tax. If you open up to an EU tax, you open up to a river of EU taxes, we mean – just when you have succeeded in getting rid of the defence tax in Sweden. Don't go that way! I would like to return to the question: is it worthwhile for the Liberals to get corporate tax and taxes in other areas in order to get a CO2 tax at European level?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-567	Madam President, I would like No, it's not. We do not want corporate tax at European level. We want to reduce Swedish corporate tax. As Ebba Busch Thor said, we have removed the defence tax – I understood that the Christian Democrats objected to it. The climate is something else. It is not just any tax policy, it is about reducing CO2 emissions. We know that this is an effective measure. Sweden already has Europe's highest carbon tax, which is part of the background to our low carbon emissions in Sweden. It would therefore also be a great advantage for the climate in Sweden if the Czech Republic, Poland, Italy and some other countries with very high emissions – partly also Germany – also had a carbon tax at that level. We have the climate in common, not each one alone. There is a difference between other areas. Yes, we are prepared to launch a common CO2 tax, as is also proposed by the European Christian Democrats in the EPP Group. We are prepared by the Liberals to let this go.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-572	Madam President, I would like This debate has once again made it clear where the great dividing line in politics yesterday. In the parliamentary election campaign this summer, both the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats defended their total lack of proposals for measures for the climate as an issue that should be dealt with by the EU. Now there are European elections, and none of these three parties have any proposals to reduce emissions here and now. They are talking about nuclear power, although research into new nuclear power will not reduce emissions by a single gram over the next 15 years. You also know that nuclear power is a national issue and does not belong in an EU debate. It is a fig leaf to hide the fact that you have no climate policy. You are so keen to point out that you want to develop the EU's emissions trading system, but what you are not telling us is that you are voting against this. You press the "no" button every time it comes to the end. You Moderates and Christian Democrats often talk about people's freedom of choice. But look at your own company in the European Parliament! After all, you are in the same group as the leaders who piece by piece dismantle democracy in Hungary and in Poland, the forces in this House which represent the greatest threat to our rights and freedoms. This is where the dividing line goes. By the way, Mr Fidesz is still in the EPP Group in Parliament, although you are pretending to be something else. It has never been more important than now to take these issues seriously. The Green Party will fight for democracy and humanity, for hope instead of hatred, for the environment and animals and for stricter climate requirements that force countries to reduce their emissions so that they are in line with the Paris Agreement, because the climate cannot wait.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-579	Madam President, I would like This weekend the Green Party announced a new proposal that risks being totally devastating to the world economy. The Green Party wants to start a trade war with the United States if it leaves the Paris Agreement. The European election candidate for the Green Party justifies it by the need to respond to President Trump at the same pace and tone as he does. The fact that the Green Party wants to lower itself to Trumps's level is spectacular in itself, but it is also stupid in substance. The environment as well as the economy need more trade and more cooperation, for it is through more collaboration and smart innovative technology solutions that we will address precisely the climate challenge. I would therefore like to ask Isabella Lövin: in what way does the world's climate cooperation benefit from using President Trumps's tone and methods?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-582	Madam President, I would like Annie Lööf raises a very important issue concerning Europe's competitiveness. A major industrial nation such as the United States is now threatening to leave the Paris Agreement and is not putting a price on its emissions. There are states that do. California is an exception. They have an emissions trading together with, among other things, Canada. Our proposal is that the industries and countries that do not put a price on emissions must pay a climate charge at Europe's border, otherwise competitiveness will be destroyed. The most common argument I hear when I want to tighten environmental laws or make it more expensive to release is that if we punish Swedish or European industry, manufacturing moves abroad. We need to work hard on this issue. We have ten years, and the climate cannot wait.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-586	Madam President, I would like I share Isabella Lövin's ambition to strengthen global climate cooperation. That is also why I am surprised by the approach chosen by the Green Party to come up with this cooperation. Alice Bah Kuhnke said a few days ago: President Trump has clearly demonstrated his irrational behaviour, and he rattles with his commercial weapons. We think we're going to have to face him at the same pace and tone that he's trying to compete us with. It is not possible to decouple the role of companies in the green transition. Swedish exports account for almost 50 per cent of Swedish bnp. To throw out Sweden and Europe in a global trade war with Trumps USA is completely the wrong way to go for both Swedish jobs and Sweden as well as for Swedish companies' environmental work. I believe more in cooperation than in conflict. Can Isabella Lövin describe how a trade war – because that's what you suggested – between the EU and the US would benefit Swedish jobs and international environmental and climate work? And what other working methods from President Trump would you like to copy?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-590	Madam President, I would like We have not talked about a trade war. But we must protect Swedish and European industry from other countries dumping their goods on our markets much cheaper at the price of our climate. If we do not put up with emissions trading schemes, which apparently most states in the United States do not, then we can produce much cheaper than we do in Europe, where we have now five times the price of emissions by reforming the EU ETS. There was Sweden driving. Fredrik Federley pushed on in Parliament for a good position, but Sweden and I pushed on so that the EU Council of Ministers took a much more ambitious position. This has now brought up the price of emissions in Europe. Other countries can make without paying anything. We have an emergency for the climate. We must use all the instruments to save the climate.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-593	Madam President, I would like Isabella Lövin! A crucial factor in achieving a reduction in emissions is that the EU stops subsidising what is destroying the climate, as the EU is actually doing. One example is the fossil gas terminal that is now being built in Gothenburg. The idea is that large amounts of fossil gas will be imported and then sold on to shipping, traffic, industries and others. It is a project that is not justifiable from a climate point of view, and I am surprised that the Green Party has not gone against that project. Now the EU is saying that this is a priority energy project for the European Union. It opens up the possibility of receiving financial support from the EU. Can Isabella Lövin assure me that this kind of EU support will be stopped in building us in the fossil society and then rejecting the EU?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-596	Madam President, I would like In the Green Party, we are crystal clear that we should stop subsidising what is fossil and what is destroying our climate. Today we know that, unfortunately, fossil fuel subsidies still exist in the EU, in Sweden and globally. It is our clear line to work against this. I have also taken the initiatives I can as a minister to push forward in Brussels and Europe to ensure that all EU policies are in line with the Paris Agreement. We cannot sign up to the Paris Agreement one day and then continue with business as usual in Europe with policies that make it more difficult to achieve the Paris Agreement that we have all signed. Everyone knows that Europe is a heavy process to push forward. Sweden and the Green Party in the government are pushing hard to make the EU climate smart.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-599	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Isabella Lövin, for the answer! I believe that the Green Party strongly rejects the fact that the EU is co-financing a project such as the fossil gas terminal in Gothenburg. If so, it is a very welcome message because there is a lot of discussion about the possibility of the EU going in there and building us up in the fossil society. My question to Isabella Lövin is: Can Isabella Lövin also express this to the government? Will the government say no to receiving EU money to build the fossil gas terminal in Gothenburg? Will you stop this with regard to the climate?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-601	Madam President, I would like We have a very ambitious climate law in Sweden that means that we are going down to net zero emissions in 2045. We have also agreed in the January agreement to review all relevant legislation so that it is in line with the climate law and the objectives we have set ourselves. We are currently working very actively to investigate how we can implement the Climate Act in all relevant legislation. I know that the fossil gas terminal is an important issue. The government is not in a position to control it at this stage, because it is about investments made by the landowners. We will simply have to come back to this issue. But the Green Party line is crystal clear here.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-603	Madam President, I would like For a few years now, the EU has also had cooperation in energy policy, the Energy Union. There are two purposes to that. One is to reduce CO2 emissions, and the other is to reduce Europe's dependence on Russia. Although it is not clearly stated, this was the purpose. Now the problem is that the EU's largest country is heading in the straight wrong direction with regard to both of these things. Germany is increasing its CO2 emissions right now. It also becomes more dependent on Russia because it builds gas pipelines through the Baltic Sea that will supply Germany with Russian gas. The reason for this is that Germany is decommissioning its nuclear power. That is why they increase their CO2 emissions, and that is why they become more dependent on Russia. The question is, Isabella Lövin : Since the Green Party wants Sweden to go the same way and also phase out our nuclear power, what conclusions does Isabella Lövin draw from the consequences of Germany following the policy that Isabella Lövin advocates for the Swedish part?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-606	Madam President, I would like Sweden and Germany have completely different conditions. I am in favour of allowing each individual Member State to decide its energy mix and policy in this area. However, we have an Energy Union in which we can benefit enormously from cooperation between countries and across borders with the transfer of power and capacity so that we can build a renewable electricity system. When it blows on the North Sea, Europe as a whole can make use of that surplus. When the sun shines in southern Europe, northern Europe can take advantage of that surplus. Hydropower also has a part in it. We have an energy agreement that has given stability to Swedish policy and is widely welcomed by the business community in Sweden. To tear it up, as Jan Björklund wants, would be to throw Sweden into great uncertainty, and the Green Party is not behind that.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-608	Madam President, I would like How stable the agreement is will soon be seen. The joy that Isabella Lövin shows over the agreement does not seem to be really shared by Ulf Kristersson and Ebba Busch Thor. They seem to be most perplexing to get out of this cooperation. They have realised that the pleasure shown by the Green Party is justified because it is the Green Party's policy to phase out nuclear power, starting with two reactors next year. That's what this is all about. The problem is not who is happy and satisfied, but the problem is that CO2 emissions will increase. Then Isabella Lövin says: Let's build wind power. Yes, I'd love to, but the problem is that we have to have electricity even when it doesn't blow. We cannot turn off all televisions and computers in Sweden and turn off all lighting as soon as it does not blow, and then we must import. That's exactly what's happening now. Just as Isabella Lövin said, we sell and buy, and it would be great if it were climate-smart electricity we imported. But just as the Germans are now discovering, there will be coal power and Russian gas, because that is where the capacity is. That would be the case for Sweden too. Learn from Germany!
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-611	Madam President, I would like Don't stand here and spread misinformation, Jan Björklund! We still have an energy surplus in Sweden. We will have 25% wind power in four years. We will continue to have a surplus that we can export to other countries. When we import a few days a year, we import hydropower from Norway, not coal power from the continent. So to the two reactors you talk so much about. Do you know that we have safety rules that require updating them at a cost of between 1 and 1 1⁄2 billion per reactor? Before we have done that, we have already destroyed the planet for our children a long time ago, because then we will have passed the climate target. We have ten years to reduce emissions. If we continue to release as we repair Ringhals and build new nuclear power, we will miss the objectives of the Paris Agreement, and that is irreversible. I say that this debate on nuclear power is dangerous because we are missing the climate targets.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-616	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Employment's motion for a resolution AU9 on labour law issues. The Moderates have some modest proposals to improve the Swedish labour market and growth. But first, of course, I support all our reservations, but for time-winning, I only agree to reservation no. 1. The Moderates believe that it is high time to improve mobility and matching in the Swedish labour market and give more opportunities to get a job. For this to be possible, the rules of rotation need to be reformed. The Moderates want to see order rules that are more based on competence. Such a rotation makes it possible for employers to retain the workers best suited to their duties, which obviously strengthens the competitiveness of companies while at the same time ensuring that the individual's job security is not overly affected. Employment protection plays an important role in protecting people from arbitrary dismissals, which of course contributes to the safety of the worker. At the same time, overly strict employment protection may hinder entry into the labour market and hinder the growth and establishment of new businesses. A horror example of this can be seen in France. As a step in developing the Swedish labour market model, we want to extend the probationary period in the Employment Protection Act from six to twelve months. We believe that these are fairly reasonable and moderate proposals to improve the functioning of the Swedish labour market. Low-skilled immigrants and young people are the biggest problem in the Swedish labour market. We therefore want to see the introduction of entry jobs, an apprenticeship-like form of employment for newcomers for the first five years in Sweden and for young people up to 23 years without a high school degree – that is, in fact, five years before the entry into force of the labour force. At the same time as we discuss employment, we should remember that entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship are needed in order to be able to hire someone. Some entrepreneurs are brave and throw their heads first down a risky cliff and fail and fail until they achieve success. Other people are more cautious, and Sweden must have a business environment that provides room for all types of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurs. The idea that the entrepreneur should always be a risk-taking free-rider is not a good foundation to build a broad business environment on. That's why we want to extend the possibility of getting a leave of absence from their employment to start a business from six months to at least one year – precisely because not all entrepreneurs may be super risk recipients. Madam President, I would like Although employee organisations have an obligation to notify their collective agreements to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, they do not. This provision was created to enable seconded workers, i.e. temporary workers in Sweden, to comply with the conditions set out here. The union and the Social Democrats have long talked about Swedish terms and conditions in Sweden. I note that the majority of the committee is satisfied to note that the number of collective agreements notified to the Swedish Work Environment Authority has increased from 26 to 52. Impressive. The only problem is that there are 670 collective agreements on wages and conditions of employment in Sweden. How should Swedish conditions apply on the Swedish labour market if you keep the terms and conditions valid for those companies that temporarily carry out projects on our labour market? I really don't understand why it should be so difficult for the unions to send an email with a pdf-document to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. The Moderates believe that sanctions should be imposed on trade unions who refuse to comply with their statutory obligation to submit their collective agreements to the Swedish Work Environment Authority. These were some of the proposals that we have in the motion report, but now I would like to take this opportunity to raise the finger of warning, especially to the signatories of the January agreement. Here I am addressing the Social Democrats in particular. It has been announced that major renovations of Swedish labour law and job security have been announced. In the rhetoric we hear that immigrants' unemployment is used as a motive to change large parts of Swedish labour law and job security. I just want to raise a finger of caution and say that this is probably not the most effective model for ensuring that immigrants get jobs. Immigrants in Sweden are unemployed mainly due to low human capital and a weak educational background. This is the main reason why immigrants find it difficult to enter the labour market. They have difficulties with language, with knowledge and with the extremely high productivity that we have in this country after 150 years of investing in education and productivity increases and from which we reap the benefits. They're having trouble catching up. No reduction in job security will address this gap. The Social Democrats should be aware of this, but they seem to have forgotten it. There is another danger with this rhetoric. To slaughter Swedish labour law and job security and not to do so moderately, but to do it headlong in some form of boy-room liberal imagination, naturally leads to the establishment of a narrative that will be: This anger will not be directed at the liberals of boys' rooms, but will be directed at immigrants. So it is immigrants who will pay the price for the aggression that is being created. Every time someone gets fired, one will now be able to say: This is the danger of using immigrants' unemployment as a motive for making a major attack on Swedish labour law. I want to lift a warning finger about that. There is a danger in this narrative. There is a danger in this rhetoric. I look forward to a fine debate.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-634	Madam President, I would like We support all the reservations of the Swedish Democrats, but for the winning time we only ask for reservation 5. Madam President, I would like It can be said that before all investigations under the January agreement are completed, labour law is a subject that we do not really know where it lands. There are proposals and investigations in areas that the Swedish Democrats actually consider important. It is about increased leave from work linked to carrying out business activities, but it also wants to review leave legislation from the parental perspective. These are subjects on which the Swedish Democrats have proposed in a reservation in today's report. New forms of employment are also a subject covered by the January agreement, and we do not know where the government lands. We can see that there are several different kinds of successful forms of apprenticeships internationally. We believe that there is reason to review the possibility of creating a Swedish model according to the conditions in the Swedish labour market. This, Madam President, should be done in cooperation with the social partners, and the starting point should be to combine upper secondary school studies with the possibility of learning a profession from an employer. The contribution shall be available as necessary and shall not be limited to a specific group of jobseekers, and the allowance shall consist of a percentage of the initial salary agreed by the parties. Then there will also be a supervisor's support for the companies concerned. We believe that this is an important issue that is well received by the companies and that the government should investigate it in line with the Swedish Democrats' reservation 5. Madam President, I would like To debate labour law without entering the LAS is inevitable, but here too we do not know where the government lands when an investigation is to be carried out. But that there will be major changes we can agree on despite the lulling of the LO pipeline with empty barrels, which only becomes ridiculous and pathetic when you have supported the proposal to allow the Center and Liberals to dictate the terms of Swedish labour law. It is interesting, Madam President, that when the Swedish Democrats drew up their proposal to increase the exceptions from two to five in companies with up to ten employees in order to give small businesses the opportunity to retain important skills, we became of the then government parties – the Social Democrats and the Green Party – called both anti-labour and a threat to both the Swedish model and women's safety in the workplace. In the debate, however, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven declined when, in a live television debate, he claimed that the Swedish Democrats' minimal proposals for changing the rules of rotation would greatly increase threats, violence and rape against women in our workplaces. It was a statement that aroused great criticism throughout Sweden and shows what a distorted and naive reality the government has today, since it is in fact their own policy that is the basis for women's vulnerability in today's society. I hope that some representative of the government and the Social Democrats here today can explain to the House and the TV viewers if they are still behind their Prime Minister's statement, as this is very relevant when we are now going to review and change the Employment Protection Act, and what this, according to the Social Democrats, will mean for the safety of Sweden's women in our workplaces.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-642	Madam President, I would like I would first like to report that we support reservation 22 on what is called lex Laval and which means that it must be possible to have seconded personnel even in Sweden on non-arbitrary terms. Here I thought, above all, because it is a question of labour law, mainly discussing the major changes that we will now finally, after so many years, make in Swedish labour law. This has been an issue that has followed with Swedish labour market policy debate for decades but which neither the Moderates nor the Social Democrats, although they have actually known that it was necessary to make changes, have dared to take on board. We can finally do it. It must be remembered that the basis for everything is that, despite the boom, we have hundreds of thousands of people who are without jobs, who are vulnerable and who never get their first job. Sweden is a rich country with good labour force participation, but unfortunately we have a labour market that creates poverty. It wasn't like that in the first place. The Swedish labour market model was based on the fact that the state should not go in and regulate, but this should be done by the parties themselves. The whole idea of the Swedish model was that they themselves would agree on wages and conditions. But then came the regulation during the left wave in the early 70s, when this tradition was broken. We got detailed rules, not least the last entry rule, first out, which required that those who have the least number of years of employment, in practice the weakest, should be terminated first. The motive was to protect employees, but in practice it has never worked that way. In practice, this means that the very person who would be protected will not get a job at all. As a rule, it is primarily the small employers who often give jobs to people who are outside. Four out of five new jobs come there, often in small towns where you struggle to get extra jobs for the most vulnerable. However, because of the rules, employers do not dare to hire people who are insecure, because if it is wrong and you cannot afford it, it is known that the regulations will make the actual dismissal under the law both expensive and complicated. Whatever is said here suddenly from the Moderates that this would be some kind of neo-liberal clock, this is the reality of small businesses when they are going to hire, and you must not forget that on that bench. Those most in need of entry are placed at the back of the gender, furthest away from work – young people, the long-term unemployed, newcomers and people who have lost their jobs later in life and need to come back. Sometimes you don't even protect those you're supposed to protect. Most of the time, it's actually like that. Many people are, after long and faithful service, given that the union believes that this is really just a negotiating card. It is negotiated away in order to gain more competence and other good things in the negotiations. Then the person who lingered in the workplace, who worked there for an extra long time instead of changing jobs, is in a situation where she or he himself is the last in line. And the rules have not protected this person. It turns out that people in the Swedish labour market feel more insecure, according to the OECD's different index comparing different surveys, than people in labour markets where these rules do not exist. We need to get away from this. Instead of destroying the chances for the most vulnerable to get jobs, we are going to get where everyone really wants to go, including the trade unions, namely to strengthen people's skills, make them employable and make them strong in the labour market. Now, at last, we are doing what so many other countries have done. Denmark has done so before us with flexicurity, where the rules make it easier for small businesses to hire. In return, you get a strong competence development. Germany implemented this reform 17 years ago, and it has brought the most stable long-term unemployment in Europe, which everyone is striving for. Now Sweden can finally do so and create our own flexicurity. According to the new study to modernise labour law, the regulatory burden on small businesses is to be reduced. Clear and concrete exceptions are to be created in these rotational rules to reduce the growth barriers for small businesses. Reducing the costs of disputes and redundancies and thus enabling many more companies to hire. At the same time, we must create this new balance, strengthen skills development and retain the flexible forms of work that we have today. With this study, I hope that we will also put a great deal of pressure on the social partners. They have now been negotiating this issue in various forms for over ten years. Every time they've approached the target, it's fallen on the finish line. Now I hope that we have put pressure on them to do something even better from their point of view and to find an even stronger solution. Now the ball really lies with them. They have no time to lose. I'm also saying it's urgent. This comes in the time of the Count. The Swedish labour market will certainly become tougher in the future when the economic cycle turns. The vulnerable will certainly become more vulnerable when the economic cycle deteriorates. Should we now open up all the opportunities for them to enter employment and create mobility and pressure on the Swedish labour market, then our chance now is to take hold of this taboo that has existed on the Swedish labour market – not to dare to see what it looks like in reality and that the rules that were supposed to protect affect the most vulnerable – and correct these injustices and thus open the labour market to more people.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-655	Madam President, I would like We are dealing with labour law here, and the Left Party has a lot to say about it. We have 18 motion requests and 10 reservations. Of course, I support all of them, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 7. I am going to knock down some of our proposals for a healthier and more productive working life. But I have to start with what is referred to several times in the report and which, in practice, has the greatest impact on the legislative process in relation to these matters in the future, namely the 73 point agreement that has been reached between the government parties Social Democrats and the Green Party and the more active anti-labour parties, the Centre Party and the Liberals. What we now want are clearly increased exceptions to the rotation rules and lower costs in the event of redundancies. It is an order born of neo-liberal ideology. Today, it is rather very cheap to lay off permanent staff in Sweden compared to what it is like in many other European countries. And the rules of rotation from which more exceptions are sought already contain exceptions and loopholes which have recently weakened them to the detriment of workers. But above all, the argument for why the Employment Protection Act should be weakened completely hollow, ignorant and de facto. It is easy to reduce the workforce in Sweden. The employer who needs to do so can invoke a lack of employment. Job shortages do not even mean that there is a lack of work on the company. It may also be that certain tasks according to the employer no longer need to be performed, for example in case of reorganisation. In principle, this is freely available to the employer. It is also something that has established itself as a practice in the Labour Court. What, then, makes the right, the employers' association and now also the government think that this is so heavy on their chests? It is that, in connection with such a dismissal, which can therefore be initiated in principle at any time, the employer is not entirely bound to exercise discretion between the employees. In fact, the employer can already exempt two persons from the order. With more exceptions, no matter how they are designed, this means that we are moving towards a situation where job security is effectively abolished. When you want to justify this further tilted balance to the detriment of the workers, you usually say – as we have heard today – that it is the competence that should decide, not when you were hired. This is repeated and repeated in a public domain where knowledge of labour market conditions is strikingly small among opinionators and journalists. But it is misleading. Firstly, competence is, of course, already a criterion for dismissal. In fact, it is something that precedes the length of employment you have had and thus eliminates anciennity. It is a prerequisite for being eligible for remaining jobs in the event of a shortage of work, i.e. having sufficient qualifications. The meaning of the changes that the right wing and the employers' association want is not that competence should become more important, but that the employer should have more of arbitrary opportunities to grade employees and then call this grading for competence. There's something else. It is a question of changing power relations and a changed view of relations at and to work. Secondly, more importantly, the rotation rules are dispositive, that is, they apply unless employers and trade unions have agreed otherwise. It is crucial, because it means that in a difficult situation when there is a dismissal process, this creates an opening for the trade union organisation to come into the picture and try to defend the interests of the workers. How? Well, the point is, it depends on the situation. You can agree on a so-called contract tour list, i.e. that you together with the employer make a list based on other principles that you agree on. Or it is possible to negotiate solutions for those who are dismissed, perhaps even for those who remain, who are more favorable. Amongst others, TCO has tried to remind us that, for example, these well-functioning and often acclaimed conversion agreements are based on the rule of law on rotation. The collective agreements have agreed to change, i.e. that the employer will get freer hands when changing the workforce for better financial conditions and help to move on to the labour market. Both the individual and society benefit from such flexible solutions. They are there and are flexible because there is a framework that lays the foundations for negotiating solutions. That is what the government and the right-wing parties are now looking to destroy. It's not smart, it's not good and it's not ok. Madam President, I would like I understand that an agreement between the government and two parties bubbling with aggressive neo-liberal impulses and contempt for the organisation of working people can be difficult. But this should still have been a bit beyond the limit of what a Social Democratic Party agrees to, even in a bad deal. We will recall this until you are pressured in one way or another to come to your senses and scrap these proposals. One thing that is particularly provocative about this process of undermining employment protection is that the directives have been given the title: Modernising labour law. It is provocative and misleading because, of course, increased arbitrariness, insecurity and servility are an old-fashioned story. This is the opposite of modernisation. In reality – if you are interested in the conditions that people actually work under – there are trends that need to be addressed and addressed politically. As we know, efforts and concrete measures are needed to strengthen security. This is what the Left Party proposal is about. Our proposals are many, as I mentioned earlier, so I will have to make a selection and bring up a few. Perhaps the most important thing is to take on the most precarious fixed-term jobs. It is clear that fixed-term employment, fixed-term employment, plays an essential role in the labour market. You have to be able to take in sub-contractors and have extra staff in case of temporary accumulations of work before a defined task or project. But there are good reasons why permanent employment is and should be the norm. An employment relationship is already fundamentally uneven, since the employer has the right to manage and distribute the work and is the one who sits on salary payments. The security of knowing that employment continues until further notice has an important function for the individual, both in a narrow economic sense and more generally as a citizen of society. Therefore, it is also important to act when employers systematically use fixed-term employment to cover permanent labour needs. It is something that affects individuals, entire industries and ultimately society as a whole. Over time, job insecurity leads to a permanent disadvantage. It is a source of stress and anxiety, especially among young people. We can follow it. People with precarious employment are less likely to participate in skills development and have less influence over their work. These are things that make the whole world of work worse. There are also very clear class and gender patterns here. Insecure employment is significantly more common among women and within LO groups. What is worrying is that, above all, it is the most precarious jobs, what are called needs, Springvikariat and the like, that have increased. A contributing factor is that the form of employment is generally fixed-term. This form of employment allows the employer to escape the general rule of permanent employment without having to justify it and without having to negotiate it. Therefore, the Left Party wants general fixed-term employment to be removed from the LAS, so that it is objective reasons and negotiated collective agreements that should form the basis for certain periods. It is remarkable that, even this year, we are alone in proposing it. Another problem area where we have proposed amendments is what has come to be called planing. These are situations in which the employer, without going through any dismissal procedure, suddenly reduces the employment rate of the employee. For example, you can go from full time to half time and lose half your salary. This is something that the trade unions hardly thought was compatible with LAS, but it was drawn to the Labour Court and received the green light from current legislation. Then the Riksdag must act. But there, too, we in the Left Party are unfortunately alone. I would also like to raise the issue of staffing companies and leasing. We know that there are indications, for example, that staff members perform more repetitive and dangerous tasks than staff employed. It is something that affects the hired person, but it can also be a way out for employers who do not want to improve the work content itself. This way of organising work has a broader impact on the workplaces and sectors where it occurs. We have a number of proposals concerning the staffing sector. We propose that it should be prohibited to hire and hire workers for permanent labour needs. If you know that a job should be done until further notice, you should also employ until further notice. We want it to be expressly prohibited to hire people if there are former employees who have preferential rights to re-employment. We also want to strengthen the trade union organisation's right to say no to rent-in. In these European elections, I would like to draw the attention of the voters to another point in this report, namely reservation 22, which was also endorsed here earlier. There, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals together propose to reintroduce what is called lex Laval. It is the law that was introduced under the Reinfeldt government and that made it illegal for Swedish trade unions to fight for reasonable terms for workers posted to Sweden. The bourgeois took the opportunity to advance their positions when the European Court of Justice surprised many trade unions throughout Europe by judging the Swedish Buildings and Electricians, who had taken the fight against wage dumping at a school building in Vaxholm. This led to a long and great debate, not only in Sweden but throughout the EU system. The funny thing is that the same bourgeois parties used to say that they only adjusted Swedish law to make it work with the decision of the European Court of Justice. Now that there is better legislation in place that makes it clear that it is possible to fight at least for conditions that are part of the so-called hard core, these parties are against. And when there was political pressure to change the Posting of Workers Directive, so that it could be a little easier to stand up to conditional dumping by posting, a pressure that even the EU Commission had to take the impression of, these parties warned against opening that door and showed a pretended concern that this could lead to a worse deal that would threaten rather than strengthen Swedish collective agreements. Of course, that was not the case. The Posting Directive has been amended to give greater scope for it to be a level playing field for work carried out in Sweden, regardless of where the workers come from. How do the bourgeois parties react? Well, by exercising that everything should be rolled back. It is very remarkable, but that is what has been proposed in Parliament. In the reservation you write what you think will happen if workers from other European countries get conditions that are closer to what applies to others in the Swedish labour market: In a situation where Sweden has a great need for labour in the construction sector, but also in other sectors, it can be directly harmful to Sweden. ..................................................... Do you hear that, all of you who work in Swedish constructions, in roadwork in Sweden or in other industries where there are postings: If your trade unions work for sjysta and equal conditions, it is I am not sure whether the representatives of these parties want to answer for themselves in this House today, but I hope that they will receive such questions in the weeks that remain before the elections to the European Parliament and beyond.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-679	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have a great deal of reservations in this report, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 12. Labour law plays an important role in the Swedish labour market. It regulates employment relationships and clarifies the responsibilities of both employers and employees. The Swedish model has given the parties relatively great freedom to make their own decisions on the basis of semidispositive legislation with collective agreements governing employment relationships. Times have changed, so have working life conditions, since LAS, the Employment Protection Act, came. Competition from the outside world means an increasing need for flexibility in the labour market. On a regular basis, many factories employ a number of temporary agency workers in order to be able to have flexibility for the variation of orders. The service sector is growing, and many work flexibly on the basis of assignments. There is therefore a need for a great deal of flexibility in the legislation as well. Many who today find it difficult to establish themselves in the labour market need our support to get a place on a job to go to. We from the Christian Democrats have therefore chosen to advocate forms of employment that will give people who are far from the labour market a chance. One suggestion for this was what we drew up in the previous Alliance about entry jobs. The idea is that during a training period you can get a lower remuneration before you are established in the profession. In this way it is introduced in accordance with the LAS, the Employment Protection Act, like everyone else. The red-green government is working in a different way. The various labour market policies created by the Red-Green Government, such as additional services, exempt people from employment security when they are excluded from the LAS. We Christian Democrats, in a reservation about a more flexible regulatory framework, have highlighted the need to extend the probationary period from six to twelve months. We believe that many companies need a longer period of time to dare to hire, especially those who find it difficult to enter the labour market. For example, it can be about new arrivals who need a little longer time to get warm in their clothes at work. Now, of course, the EU has decided that it should no longer have probationary contracts. It is just an example of the EU becoming increasingly involved in our labour market policy, to which we Christian Democrats are critical. Of course, there should be security for workers, but we should not prevent some flexibility in the labour market. Each country has its own challenges and should also be able to find its own solutions. The EU regulation states that it is possible to exceed six months' probationary period if justified by the nature of the employment or if it is in the interests of the worker. It is also possible to make derogations through collective agreements. I think it would be important for it to be included in the investigation that the government has now set up on the basis of the January agreement. What I can understand is not the question, but the rule of order alone. Then the question of probation will not be included, as I understand. Maybe someone can explain if it's different. Madam President, I would like As far as more flexible rules and new forms of employment are concerned, the response of the majority is that it will be investigated. On most of the report, it says that we should investigate the issue. Let's see how it goes. Measures for newcomers outside the labour market today are urgent. Action is urgently needed. I think we should adopt a number of the proposals that are on the table today. Now we are all put in the waiting rooms by the cooperation parties, which is regrettable. Madam President, I would like It is important that companies in different economic situations can adapt their business in order to meet the requirements of competition in the rest of the world. They must then be able to reset and retain key persons. Otherwise, as we often hear from entrepreneurs, we risk being afraid to hire, even though they need staff. We want from the Christian Democrats because the exceptions to the rotation rules in the Employment Protection Act are to be extended from two to four people regardless of the size of the company. We do not trust that the wording of the January agreement will ensure the necessary changes in this area, which is why we are putting forward a reservation on it today. Madam President, I would like Working life should also be flexible for parents. Reconciling work and family life must be a priority. Until the child is one year old, parental insurance is relatively flexible, but after the one-year anniversary there are a lot of restrictive rules that govern the withdrawal of parental insurance. We want to increase parents' ability to combine family and work and the right to be on leave to be with their children. In a previous report, the Swedish National Audit Office has recommended that the Government consider how the social security system and labour market legislation should be adapted to facilitate the reconciliation of work and family care. Here too, as we mean, the question of the right to leave should be investigated. We develop this in our reservation 18. Here we believe that the January agreement does not guarantee that we will have proposals in this area that cover what we want to see. Madam President, I would like Sweden has relatively few strikes on the labour market. At the same time, there are different types of conflicts in the labour market. The cost of those strikes is high. This applies, for example, to the port strike we have seen recently. We are talking about billions in costs for each strike, and in the port area there have been recurring. Now the government has put forward a bill for increased peace obligations, which we welcome. It is good that the parties have come to an agreement on the changed conflict rules. The question is whether it will be enough or whether we will still have to go further on the instrument of mediation, the principle of proportionality and the right to take sympathetic action. That is something we propose. Let's get back to that. Madam President, I would like Finally, it concerns lex Laval. The Postings Act has been debated, as has been said here, a large number of times in this House. Ensuring good conditions for those who come and work in Sweden is a matter of course for us Christian Democrats. However, according to the Christian Democrats, the government's view and the law on posting stand for protectionism and are less concerned with those who come here to work. It is contrary to the principles of EU law, and it makes it difficult for secondment even though many companies need workers from the rest of Europe. The Swedish Law Council has also questioned, when the government made the changes in 2017, why it did not first evaluate the previous law in connection with lex Laval. We therefore believe that the government should return as soon as possible with proposals for amendments to the Posting of Workers Act.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-696	Madam President, I would like I chose to ask for a reply to Mrs Pethrus' speech because I think she is, in many respects, a very wise person and has said many good things from the speaker's chair. One thing that often recurs is that we will investigate modernised labour law, including the exceptions. There I can think that the Christian Democrats may be a little cautious compared to what is expected in order for us to break the lock on the labour market. If you are a wise person, as the previous speaker is, does it not make sense to investigate things properly when making major changes? Now with a one-year investigation of a very large subject, it is also quite fast pace and intensity in the investigation.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-699	Madam President, I would like This is a relevant question that Martin Ådahl has. We have said that we want to investigate the conditions for a new labour law. In this way, we are in fact in agreement. What we are concerned about is that we have a gang that is really totally opposed to it, and then we have you who want to push on very tough. We are concerned that it will take a long time. It will be investigated, and in the end it will be a mischmasch that maybe no one is satisfied with. We think, then, that we have some concrete proposals here today that we could vote on and say: we really want to get this through right now. I feel a very big scepticism about the fact that something will come out of the investigation.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-702	Madam President, I would like I think we should be honest and admit that if we were to do this properly and properly, there would not have been any other way than to set up an investigation with a very clear framework. It should be a very high bar for what to achieve, a very clear focus and an expectation and a requirement for that investigation. There should also be a very good capacity in it to do so. It had been almost every serious option that had been found to do this. I think that one can welcome the fact, and not just worry about it, that there is now a fantastic breadth for these reforms. The Christian Democrats and the Center Party have long been quite alone in pursuing this, and many of the major parties have opposed it. Now there is the broad scope, which also ensures that it will be of long-term importance, to make the modernisation of labour law and, at the same time, the clear direction of the investigation. After all, it can be something you can welcome.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-704	Madam President, I would like I can certainly say that I welcome an investigation. Nevertheless, I remain concerned that what will result from the disparate starting point from which those who have concluded the January agreement come. I have often stood in this speaker's chair and talked about the fact that we are living in a new age. Since the coming of the Employment Protection Act, the labour market has changed dramatically. There's a deal. I think we need changes, although I can partly agree that the Employment Protection Act is quite flexible. It is very often the case that it is the big employers who have lawyers and know exactly how to relate to the Employment Protection Act that knows how to do it. I would like the focus to be on small businesses in particular. They are the ones who need help and support for more flexibility in forms of employment. I welcome the fact that there will be an investigation. But I'm still worried about what the outcome will be.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-708	Madam President, I would like You have heard in the debate that the Liberals and the Center Party have forced the Social Democrats to break the Swedish model. It is as if we deliberately want to withdraw the security of all employees or deliberately terminate experienced people from employment. That, of course, is not true. Madam President, I would like Our goal is for more people to enter the labour market than they do today. More people should be able to get a job. The main rule of the liberals is: A job is always better than no job at all. Let us talk about what is sometimes flossically referred to as high thresholds into the Swedish labour market. What do high thresholds mean, and what are the consequences? In March 2019, approximately 390 000 people in Sweden were unemployed. It is not unknown that the Liberals love to talk about Europe and Europe in all possible, and perhaps all impossible, contexts. But here it is relevant, because we need to compare the numbers. What do they really mean? As far as youth unemployment is concerned, Sweden is above the average in Europe in 2019. The same applies to total unemployment. Sweden is also among the countries with the greatest employment gap between native and foreign born. For me, these differences have had several faces during this spring. Together we have been part of a mentoring program as an organization called My Life arranges. My Life wants to build the bridge between the Swedish labour market and skilled labour with a foreign background. Few jobs are mediated through Arbetsförmedlingen, and many are confused about the consequences of the structure of the Swedish labour market today. I have met well-educated people, Cecilia from China, Adel from Syria, marin from Ukraine and others, and during the spring I have seen them struggle to compile the CV, train job interviews and try to build networks to access the Swedish labour market. Madam President, I would like Then we should be aware that the people I have met are far better equipped than others, who may come from countries where the public sector and its education systems are now torn apart by war and conflict. Sweden and the Swedish labour market are at risk of being divided into a we and one them. We are born in Sweden, have permanent employment and education and are quite easy to get a new job if we lose a job, and that is one where the distance grows to a so-called real job. Madam President, I would like It worries me that we have a new unemployment. It is called structural unemployment, where many do not manage to establish themselves in the labour market. If we don't manage to do this in prosperity, what will happen on the day of recession? This shows that something needs to be done. That, Madam President, is why we want to see a partial change in labour law. This has led to the directives which are on the table and which we have heard mentioned here today. The Swedish labour market does not look like it did in the early 80s, when the latest reform of LAS was made. The change in labour law that we are now working for will give companies flexibility and at the same time protect the individual worker against arbitrary redundancies. Today's labour market in Sweden is characterised by a greater need for both flexibility and mobility than when LAS was introduced. The directives which form the basis of the study to be carried out consist of four parts: there must be concrete and clear exceptions to the rules of rotation. The employer's responsibility for the competence development of the employee shall be strengthened. There shall be lower costs of dismissal while maintaining legal certainty. There will be a better balance in employment protection. Madam President, I would like Liberals have no hidden agendas to benefit entrepreneurs by making it more unsafe for the worker. Our agenda is clear, our agenda is transparent and our agenda is about more people in Sweden entering the Swedish labour market. More people are coming to work. Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I would now like to endorse only reservation 21.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-722	Madam President, I would like I may despair a little when it comes to being able to get a good answer to the question of how you imagine that Sweden, which has the highest proportion of people who work, should be able to get a higher share by making it easier to fire people. There is nothing in the facts and statistics from the rest of the world that suggests that it would work that way. However, I would like to focus above all on the European issue because it seems to be very close to the Liberals. This concerns the question of lex Laval, which is now being proposed to reintroduce. I want to try to understand why it is important for the Liberals that it should be easier for employers to pit workers against each other and that it should be easier to dump wages without trade union organisations being able to intervene against it. You also want to use Europe for this. Is it because – perhaps for good reason – it is considered too weak to implement this politically in Sweden with only Swedish legislation? Or is it a matter of principle that it should be possible throughout the EU to pit workers against workers and create conflicts between them in that way?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-725	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ali Esbati, for the question. I know you're very knowledgeable in this field. But you have to say we come from very different ideological backgrounds, and I think that will shine through in your question as well as in my answer. Unlike Ali Esbati, we in the Liberals are holding the EU very warm and very high. I'm a little afraid of putting workers against workers. That is certainly not what we are doing, although I know, Madam President, that Ali Esbati sees it that way. What we want to do is to ensure freedom of movement in Europe. The construction sector, for example, is screaming for labor. We need to secure it. But this kind of restriction means that we cannot do it.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-728	Madam President, I would like I'm glad that Maria Nilsson cares about my experience of things. Personally, I don't think the most important thing is how I experience what things are like, but what it's really like when it comes to putting people against each other. In this case, the question is whether Swedish trade unions should have the opportunity to fight because it is Swedish conditions that apply to everyone who works in Sweden. We think they should have it. If this is not done, it will make it easier for employers who, for example, have seconded staff from countries with generally lower wage levels or worse conditions. It will be easier for them to say that work carried out in Sweden, for example in a Swedish construction project, should not have to be paid in a way that we otherwise in Sweden consider appropriate, even though it is the same type of work to be carried out. I would say that this is both a question of principle and a practical question. When it comes to whether you get people to fill the places that are on the buildings, we are not saying that we should not have any people coming from other countries and working. If there is a great demand for construction work in Sweden, it is gratifying. There could be even more workers if we had a better housing policy with public investment, but we can discuss that another time. But if we do, it is obvious that we should also have fair terms of employment and fair wages. That is the issue we are discussing. If you are such a strong supporter of the European Union, I think you should be able to explain why you are. Is it because you believe that the EU project will give Swedish workers better conditions, or do you want more opportunities for wage and conditional dumping in this way? That's my question.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-732	Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati's worried I'm worried about his experiences. I am quite worried when Ali Esbati says that this is actually the case. That would mean that there is an objective truth that Ali Esbati is in prison with which the rest of us have not really come to. I'm rather hesitant about that. The biggest problem today when visiting different companies is a lack of skills. No matter which industry, no matter which entrepreneur, there is a lack of skills. We must do everything we can to supply the companies that exist in Sweden. Then we should not put in place unnecessary barriers that prevent more workers from other parts of the EU from being brought here so that prosperity and growth increase. It is precisely for this reason that we are putting forward this proposal. Yes, we are warm friends of the European Union. A fundamental part of the European Community is freedom of internal movement. That is precisely why we believe that this particular part is so important.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-735	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. As usual, we can see that labour law is an issue that involves many Members of Parliament every time we discuss these motions. There are a lot of claims– I think it's over 80 – so I won't respond to them all, but some. Labour law involves not only us in this House, Madam President, but a great many more than that. That's what it's gonna do. The many laws that we collect in a kind of concept, what we call labour law, are laws that very much affect people's everyday lives. It's about how you're supposed to have it at work. In fact, even more people should show great commitment to these issues, which are vital to many. One of the sections of the report deals with fixed-term employment. This is an ever-living debate in politics, as we have heard almost all the speakers before me mention. There are a few things that I think you should talk about when talking about forms of employment. First of all, the number of fixed-term jobs is constantly and steadily increasing in Sweden today. Since we still want to see permanent employment as the norm in the labour market, we see this as a problem. People experience exploitation in many cases, and the premises that some of the fixed-term jobs entail do not belong in a modern labour market. Sleeping with your mobile phone under the pillow so that you don't miss a request for a few hours of work because someone else has been ahead of you saying yes, never having to take a bank loan or even less signing a contract on a rental apartment because you don't have an employer or know what income you'll have next month – it's actually tripping like the conditions Swedish workers had in the past, when you stood with your hat in hand outside the factory gates and begged to work for a few hours to be able to put food on the table for their family. That's not how I want the job market to look like. I want people to have jobs that provide security, so that everyone can be given the opportunity to live their lives as safe individuals. That's how we build a strong society. But don't get me wrong! Fixed-term employment is also needed in a functioning labour market. There will always be a need for substitute jobs, project contracts, reinforcement at work peaks and so on. Of course, I am not against that. What is so wise and flexible about the Swedish partnership model is that all industries are specialists in what different forms of employment are needed by them and have therefore regulated it in collective agreements. I myself have been employed as an extra if necessary in the hotel and restaurant industry in the 80's. Like so many others, I came in that way. It was a form of employment that can be discussed, but it was contained in collective agreements because it was considered to be a necessary form of employment in that particular sector. The flexibility and scope of employment in the Swedish labour market is great. I think that's good. I also think that this is something that the parties in the various sectors can best do. For this reason, the legislative approach is rarely a good way forward in terms of forms of employment. Over 90 per cent of all employees in the Swedish labour market are covered by collective agreements. For all these, there are all the different forms of employment needed in collective agreements. That is why it became so wrong when in 2007 the bourgeois government decreed a form of employment called general fixed-term employment. The introduction of this form of employment disrupted the balance of the labour market. I still believe that the form of employment should not exist as a general fixed term. Unfortunately, we do not have a majority for this in Parliament now, but I want to be clear that the parties know the labour market and the industries best. Let them handle what forms of employment are needed in the various sectors of the Swedish labour market! This report also contains, as many have pointed out, requests for a longer probationary period from six to twelve months. In view of what I said earlier, I find that unreasonable. I remember when, in the early 1990s, the probationary period was extended from one to three months. The union was in disintegration state. I experienced my first telephone conference as a trade union elected representative, called by the Federation Executive Board: What is happening in the Swedish labour market? If an employer can't see for a month if you've done good or bad recruitment, it's not the law that's wrong, you said as an argument. So today we have six months' probationary period. That, along with all the other forms of employment that I have already mentioned, makes me think that there is a large enough palette of choices for an employer to recruit. Another section deals with posted workers. I note that there are several requests for the reintroduction of lex Laval. One main reason put forward is that it would now be less attractive for foreign companies to come here and that it would hamper free movement. However, it is not only companies that should have free movement. It cannot be the case that this is the only place where mobility lies and not the rights of employees. In fact, what we are seeing is also the opposite. In 2018, we had more postings in Sweden than ever before – I think it had increased by 30,000 compared to the previous year. Companies are not afraid to post workers to Sweden. We will have reason to come back to this debate. We are currently having an investigation into how to implement the revisions made in the Posting of Workers Directive to make it better and clearer. Madam President, I would like The Rules of Order in LAS, the Employment Protection Act, is an issue that engages many people. There are a lot of claims about them this year too. As we have heard, the government has set up an investigation into the rules of rotation as part of delivering on the 73-point programme presented by the government parties together with L and C. While this investigation is ongoing over the coming year, the parties have the opportunity to negotiate rotation rules and conversion, and we hope that they will. We will follow developments with interest, and I am convinced that we will have lively debates ahead on these issues when the proposals are in place. Madam President, I would like I am well aware that there are different views on the 73-point programme that we have negotiated between the four parties, not least on the issues relating to this particular area. As a social democrat, of course, I understand that to some extent. However, I would ask all of you who are looking at the 73-point programme of scepticism to read the report we are debating today. I might even ask you to read the hundreds of pages of motions on which the report we are debating today is based. For in reservations and motions it is very clear what the alternative to the 73-point program had been. If we had had a conservative bloc that had created the basis for a government, the restrictions on labour law would have been enormous. There are sharp proposals in the report on gross restrictions on the right to strike, on statutory minimum wages for some, on extended probationary contracts, on changes in considerably more parts of the LAS than the order of rotation, on more statutory forms of employment and on the reintroduction of l.e. Laval. Overall, all these elements would completely destroy the balance between the social partners. And the big losers would be Sweden's employees.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-754	Madam President, I would like It was not that very concrete that Helén Pettersson highlighted when it came to the rules of order and what we can expect to come up with in this investigation. There was not much talk about the investigation more than defending what we have today. The report refers several times to the January agreement and the investigation into labour law. At the same time, we can see the Social Democrats faltering in the debate – yet it is here and yet it is there. One day you say that you should not change a point or a comma in LAS, and the next day you are prepared to make an investigation about the rotation rules and LAS. How do the Social Democrats view the need for a new labour law? Is it a new era that requires changes in labour law, in your opinion? Are you happy that you are forced to actually do something?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-756	Madam President, I would like No, I wasn't very specific about the investigation. I know that the directives are drafted and available, and I believe that all of us who are politically involved in these issues have read them. The investigation has barely even come into place, so of course I will not precede it with what you will come up with or how you will work. That's why I haven't been into specific details. It is no secret that Social Democrats stand for a strong LAS, but it is also no secret that it is a priority that we have chosen to do to keep Swedish democrats away from the power to conclude a 73-point agreement that involves changes in the order of order. That's what I stand for, and we'll deliver.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-758	Madam President, I would like As far as labour law is concerned, the Swedish Democrats do in fact have quite a number of times the same opinion as the Social Democrats, so I do not think it is possible to refer to the fact that the great change would have come because of the influence of the Swedish Democrats. Rather, this is something that the Social Democrats have done to maintain power. We know that, and the Social Democrats have admitted this more or less indirectly. But I do not get an answer to what is the hope of the Social Democrats that the investigation will take place. What is the input value? You must have some kind of assessment as to what you want to accomplish with this investigation. It would be interesting if Helén Pettersson could formulate something in this area. The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has decided to travel to Denmark and study their flexicurity, i.e. their flexible labour market systems. The Social Democrats have agreed to this – the chairmanship of the committee – so I wonder: How do the Social Democrats view the need for more flexicurity in the Swedish labour market?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-761	Madam President, I would like Our starting values in the investigation and the proposals that will emerge from it are, of course, what we have come up with and which is also readable in the 73-point programme. It is a question of clearly increasing exceptions to the rules of rotation, but it is also a question of protecting employees from arbitrariness, of finding a balance in employment protection between different forms of employment, where it is very different and unfair today, and of maintaining the balance between the two sides in the labour market. I understand that it is a delicate task for the investigator to put all this together, but I very much look forward to a balanced, feasible proposal that we can all be satisfied with – at least we who have signed the agreement. I don't expect everyone to be happy. As far as flexicurity is concerned, and the fact that the whole committee is to visit another country, which we often use as an example in the debate when discussing the labour market, is not very strange. Nor does it mean that any party wants to buy that model straight off. We're going there to learn. What's worked out well? What's been working worse? We know there are both. The only ones who can explain to us and from which we can learn are those who have actually already done so. I hope it's a good trip.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-764	Madam President, I would like We heard in the speech everything that was wrong with our proposals. For quite some time now, we have not seen Socialist proposals for what they want to do with the labour market and the enormous division and the major problems that exist. Through the January agreement we have at least been able to get a hunch about what is coming, which is quite funny given that everything that the Social Democrats in the election movement criticized the Moderates for – and sometimes even fantasized that the Moderates wanted to introduce – is now to be introduced by the Social Democrats. Sometimes I do not agree with certain things to be introduced, but there is some glee in me, of course, that it was Nixon who went to China and that it is precisely the Social Democrats who are attacking Swedish labour law. Helén Pettersson made it very clear in his speech that it should be up to the parties to decide the different forms of employment that exist in Sweden. That's news for me. I did not know that the Social Democrats wanted to remove the various legal forms of employment and leave it entirely to the parties. That would be a very welcome development. If it isn't, it would be great if Helén Pettersson said that she is in favour of regulating where she thinks it is good and that it should then be up to the parties in the areas where she might disagree. This is a little strange in the discussion about what is the Swedish model, because in the areas where it fits, we legislate, and where it does not fit, when someone else wants to legislate in this area, it is suddenly the Swedish model that applies. It would be great if Helén Pettersson could clarify this.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-767	Madam President, I would like We have had this discussion earlier in committee, but it was during a previous term of office, so I can repeat a little what we have said in previous lines. The Swedish model is based on the fact that we have a basis in legislation that applies to everyone, the whole labour market. In addition to this, it is built on a sectoral basis through collective agreements. No, of course I do not want all current forms of employment to be torn up. Hanif Bali begins by saying that we Social Democrats during the election movement stood and made up things that the Moderates want, and in the next breath Hanif Bali stands and makes up what I have said I want us to do. I just want to point that out. No, it is not that this government will implement all that we have previously accused and even now accuse the Moderates of wanting to implement. This is not a slaughter of Swedish labour law, as Mr Bali strongly expressed it in his opening speech. This is about the order rules in the Employment Protection Act. That is a rather small part of the large part that we call labour law. Don't put any other words in my mouth!
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-771	Madam President, I would like This is where hypocrisy becomes clear. The times the Moderates have even proposed milder changes to the very rules of rotation, the Social Democrats have attacked the Moderates by the fact that we want to carry out precisely a slaughter of labour law. But now that it is the Social Democrats who want to implement it, it is fantastic. We are of course happy that you do, Helén Pettersson. All credit to you for wanting to do this. What is strange in the debate is that when the Moderates want to make changes in legislation, it is terrible. These include, for example, labour law and different forms of employment. Then it should be up to the parties. But the legislative changes that the Social Democrats have made and which they claim are the basis for the Swedish model are excellent and well motivated, and what they want to do now does not violate the Swedish model at all. This is where hypocrisy becomes apparent. When you want to change the rules of rotation, that's a good thing. When we want to change the rules of rotation, it's bad. When you want to introduce different forms of employment, that is a good thing. When we want to introduce different forms of employment, it is bad. One might think that the various proposals are good or bad, based on their own merits. But the debate becomes dangerous if every time different parties want to implement different proposals they say it threatens the Swedish model. I think it would be very inhibiting for an open and honest debate. In fact, this parliamentary term will do good; it will be very clear to the Swedish electorate what double standards the Social Democrats have in their rhetoric. They accuse us of wanting to slaughter the Swedish labour market model, but now they want to implement the changes that the Moderates have been propagating for too long.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-777	Madam President, I would like I thought I was quite clear in my speech with the overall picture. If all proposals for changes in all these laws that we call labour law that the Moderates have put forward were to be implemented, the balance between work and business would tip over on the Swedish labour market. The balance would disappear. That is one of the reasons why we have sat down and negotiated and agreed with the Centre Party and the Liberals on this 73-point programme. The alternative would have been devastating for Swedish employees. The whole of the proposals for the slaughter of the Swedish model that the Moderates have made time after time would be devastating. That is what has led to the 73-point programme. We now have an investigation about the rules of rotation and not the whole of Swedish labour law.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-779	Madam President, I would like The committee shall debate the working environment and working time. I would like to begin my speech by recounting a story that has touched me strongly. I was able to take part of it in the local media in Jämtland County during the previous week. The story is, of course, linked to the work environment area. The morning of October 5 was a black morning for the Berglind family. That's when the terrible thing happened – the incomprehensible, the tragic. Dad Pär-Åke-Åke Berglind can still feel the pulse increasing as he thinks back on when he got the message. Something had happened to his son Jens. Thoughts ran away. What could have happened? What could the worst be? Jens Berglind's morning as a crane driver in a local haulage company began at Stadsdel Norr in Östersund. After a completed construction project, a number of manor sheds would be moved to a storage site in Lugnvik. Staff were ready at both addresses to assist in loading and unloading. But for unknown reasons, Jens' day began by loading a completely different shed on his crane car. Boden belonged to the construction company and was to be transported to another address. It is there, to an empty asphalt field, as Jens Berglind comes that autumn morning – alone. Jens has two phones on him. Through the work phone he calls several times after staff from the construction company. At the same time, on his private phone there is a close to 20 minutes long conversation with a work colleague. It is this fellow worker who notices that something is happening to Jens. On the phone, she hears Jens screaming. Then she hears a grunting sound, and then it's quiet. It's 8:01 a.m. The colleague calls a person she thinks is near the scene of the accident, but Jens does not turn out to be there. After this follows a moment of confusion about where Jens is. Twelve minutes after eight, she won't catch up with a coworker who knows where Jens is. Two minutes later, SOS is alerted. Six minutes later, an ambulance arrives at the scene of the accident. Three people have reached the scene. Jens hangs on one long side of the nest. Shortly thereafter, Pär-Åke-Åke Berglind will arrive at the site. He's being met by emergency services. There's a lot of work going on. He sees several people up on the roof of the shed. Someone's signaling with a thumb up. Jens has a pulse again. Jens is lifted down on a stretcher, and the ambulance takes him to Östersund Hospital. Just an hour later, he's declared dead. A preliminary investigation into a crime has been initiated. But this is how Jens' day ends. I'm so sorry for your loss. Of course, Jens's family comes to mind. Last year 58 people were killed because of workplace accidents. One death is one death too many. In the first three months of this year, nine people have already died. We see the largest number of fatal accidents in ten years. Most accidents occur in the construction, transport, soil and forest sectors. So it is the fourth year in a row that deaths are increasing. Unfortunately, the government's objective of reducing the number of deaths, including a zero vision, has failed. The very negative accident statistics must be broken here and now. Supervision, information, knowledge acquisition and much better interaction between authorities are part of the measures that need to be improved, according to us moderates. The most important thing to ensure a good working environment is a well-functioning preventive work environment work at the workplace. Both the Swedish Work Environment Authority and the parties have an important role in this. Efforts to make it easier for employers can range from dissemination of knowledge to advice and better tools. Many employers want to do the right thing but do not know how. Another important element in facilitating the regulatory environment for businesses, especially smaller companies, is the simplification of the regulatory framework. It must be easier to do the right thing. A large part of the problems of high absenteeism are in the public sector. Many of the professions that are struggling with a worse working environment have problems in their operations in the form of a lack of staff or a lack of leadership. A study on sick leave due to mental diagnoses carried out by Försäkringskassan concludes that over-risks of started illness with mental diagnosis are present in publicly funded activities. Particular attention is paid to nurses, midwives, specialist nurses, health care staff and primary and secondary school teachers. We note that the committee highlights various government assignments and also the national inspection effort initiated by the Swedish Work Environment Authority. There will be a wide range of sectors to be inspected. That's good. However, we still believe that there is still more to be done for the said professions where sick leave is alarmingly high. Since the 1980s, women have had higher absenteeism than men. More women than men are also forced to leave work prematurely because of ill health. Factors in the work environment and the distribution of unpaid home and care work are some of the factors that can help to influence the difference in absenteeism between the sexes. Therefore, in order to meet the development of sick leave, efforts are needed on several levels. A key factor in the work on mental illness is the clear link between weak psychosocial work environment and illness with mental diagnosis. We believe that it is in this area that we should focus efforts on getting to grips with development. A good working environment is an important factor for more people to have the opportunity to work longer without risks of ill health. Although the working environment is improving on many levels, it is worrying that the reports of occupational diseases among women caused by organisational and social problems increased for the seventh consecutive year, according to the latest occupational injury statistics. One important reason for this is the development of women-dominated industries, such as health care and long-term care. Greater responsibility for shortcomings in the psychosocial working environment must also be attached to those employers who have such shortcomings in their working environment. We see a clear need to create a better incentive structure for employers when it comes to preventive work on psychosocial work environment and early intervention and not least better rehabilitation. We believe that gender equality issues need to be highlighted and brought more clearly into this picture. There are many indications that women's higher absenteeism in many cases has elements of both medical, social and economic aspects. In conclusion, we Moderates have in this report motions which emphasise that the Swedish Work Environment Authority should be given the task of carrying out a special supervision of the organisational and social working environment in certain particularly vulnerable occupational groups, such as teachers and health and care workers. In addition, supervision will be strengthened for the same professions. Madam President, I would like We Moderates are behind all of our reservations. For time winning, I only agree to reservation no. 4.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-801	Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all the reservations of the Swedish Democrats, but for the winning time I only ask for reservation 13. Allow me to throw in a small piece of wood which is a bit related to the previous report. This concerns the rejection of the Social Democrats from the Swedish Democrats. It is certainly fortunate that the Social Democrats sometimes have the Swedish Democrats to support themselves against, for example when it comes to the lex Laval issue. This also applies to many other issues relating to the rights and future of Swedish employees. I therefore very much look forward to further cooperation with the Social Democrats and the government on these very issues. According to the statistics of the Prosecutor's Office, the average investigation period for the crime causing the death of another person in the workplace is nearly twice as long as the death of another person who is not related to a workplace. The investigation situation for occupational health and safety offences is problematic for several reasons. More resources are needed, mainly better qualified resources from the police and the Prosecutor's Office. In addition, the state of the investigation is complicated by the nature of the matter. Madam President, I would like Entreprenades today often take place in many stages, and they are common on Swedish construction sites. I have my own experience of Swedish construction sites. For many years I have been a trade union shop steward and safety representative, and I have been involved in many investigations concerning workplace accidents at Buildings. I'm probably one of the few people here who have had to wear the coffins in the church at a funeral for two coworkers. Based on the overall picture of the problem in these investigations, we want to increase the limitation period for occupational health and safety offences. The limitation period for the normal degree of occupational health and safety crime is now two years. In serious crimes, it is five years old. We believe that this limitation period should be extended to double, i.e. four years for the normal rate and ten years for serious crimes. We welcome the fact that the government seems to have some kind of vision of extending the limitation periods. However, when you read the committee's reply and the explanatory statement, Madam President, you can see that it is normally limping. It is claimed that it is important that sufficient resources are available to investigate suspected crime in the field of health and safety at work. At the same time, you choose not to listen to the Swedish Work Environment Authority's appeal for more resources in order to fulfil your mission today. It also reduces the resources available to the police, making it more difficult to increase the priority for occupational health and safety offences. Madam President, I would like Now we come to the remarkable thing about the matter. When there is a final proposal on the table from a majority in the Swedish Parliament, you choose to vote against it, even though it is in line with what LO wants and what the Social Democrats themselves went to elections on. They stood all summer in the election cottages and trumpeted out that they wanted to increase the limitation period for occupational health and safety crimes, because it was an important issue. Madam President, I would like I find it distressing to put the prestige and rejection of the Swedish Democrats before the possibilities of developing and intensifying work for a better working environment. In my world you can call yourself what you want, but the title of the Swedish Labour Party and a party for Swedish employees has long since been consumed by the Social Democrats. It can be said that Swedish employees are not at present the priority group to try to cling to power. I regret that the Green Party, which is part of the government, was not interested in participating in the debate. That is a pity, because I would have liked to have heard their views on the matter.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-810	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that we support all the reservations expressed by the Center Party in the report, but for time, I only support reservation 2. Work environment issues concern all of us, such as employees, employers, citizens of society and elected representatives. Unfortunately, however, these issues do not usually receive the attention they deserve in the political debate, even though they are highly prioritised by both companies and trade unions. Perhaps it is because the issues are complex, or maybe it is because we have a broad consensus that a good work environment is a prerequisite for us to be able to work long up in the ages. It is not possible to oppose a g od working environment regardless of political colour or ideology. Having said that, this does not mean that in politics we have a consensus on how to proceed in order to succeed even better. For let us be honest: It is fair to say that we in Sweden have one of the world's best working environments, although there is of course development potential. If you look in the rearview mirror at how the modern working environment rules developed in the 1970s, much has happened, in society at large, in business and in working life. Many of these changes also affect the work environment with new technologies, new ways of working and completely new industries. This means that in the future we will face completely new challenges in the area of health and safety at work. Madam President, I would like Work environment issues do not exist without jobs and employers. It is therefore natural that the discussion on how to develop health and safety at work starts with employers. The research also shows that good work environment work is often a prerequisite for being involved in competing for customers and assignments. Against this background, it is not at all surprising that 95 percent of all member companies in the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry see health and safety issues as high priority, regardless of the industry or size of the company. At the same time, however, there is disappointment among many companies in terms of the understanding of business life by politicians and public authorities. This becomes particularly clear when it comes to the Swedish Work Environment Authority and its lack of focus on supporting and informing companies about regulations in the field of health and safety at work. There is an enormous potential for development here. More than four out of ten companies find it quite or very difficult to understand the regulatory framework in this area. Madam President, I would like It is not possible to talk about health and safety at work without talking about fatal accidents. The other week I read with tears in my eyes a DN article about 24-year-old Julia Mannersten, which was pulled into a draft work at the Tarket factory in Ronneby and lost her life. It is not possible to read about the enormous grief that filled her loved ones when the announcement of her death reached them and did not feel anger that in 2019 there are still workplaces where physical safety is inadequate. Madam President, I would like Last year 58 people went to work in Sweden to never come home again. That's 58 people too many. We cannot – and should not – stop improving the physical working environment. Madam President, I would like For the fourth consecutive year, the number of deaths in workplace accidents has increased. Even higher figures are also taken into account for those who die of indirect work-related injuries. However, it was not better in the past, contrary to what some would argue, especially as regards the working environment. During the 1970s, nearly 200 people lost their lives at Swedish workplaces each year. In many ways, therefore, progress has been made, especially if it is taken into account that both the supply of work and the number of hours worked have multiplied since then. There is also now a government zero vision, and the government has developed an ambitious strategy for health and safety at work. We basically have a good order in which the Swedish Work Environment Authority inspects and informs and the trade union safety representatives supervise and report. We have Mynak, the Agency for Safety and Health at Work, whose task is to compile and disseminate the latest research in the field of health and safety at work. Safety requirements are now high, but they are still far from sufficient. It's perfectly clear. Madam President, I would like We also need to talk about the psychosocial working environment. Sickness rates have increased in recent years, and the number of people suffering from mental illness has reached record levels. In the light of the technological development that has made us almost always reachable, the advance of social media where we'll display a lot of every aspect of our lives in the public domain and that we'll now be good at everything – be fantastic parents and partners and have successful careers, many hobbies and preferably also a great voluntary commitment – it's not surprising that the balance between work and leisure is becoming increasingly blurred. The 24 hours of the day are not enough – it would be strange otherwise. Madam President, I would like Research shows that it is possible to reduce work-related mortality through preventive measures at the workplace and the application of new knowledge that reduces the incidence of stress and shift work. In order to reduce the number of work-related diseases and injuries, it is crucial to have a locally functioning systematic work environment work and a good safety culture that includes everyone in the workplace. Of course, the employer has ultimate responsibility for the working environment, but this does not exclude the responsibility of all those present at the workplace to contribute to a good working environment. For example, it may be a matter of following the instructions and safety instructions available and of using protective equipment. In the future, the risks in each activity must be analysed and behaviours and attitudes discussed. The employer has a responsibility to create a culture where it is okay to say away when there is a risk of accident or illness. It is crucial to have an environment where you are afraid of each other and dare to discuss both risks and how to prevent ill health. Madam President, I would like We have come a long way in terms of the working environment, but we cannot settle down. If Sweden is to be able to compete in a globalised world, we must sharpen our competitive means, and this includes a good working environment in which the creativity and commitment of our employees are fully exploited. We can and will get even better! Let us continue to have good and respectful interaction between the parties at all levels, based on a common and fact-based reality picture and allow more people to engage in a better working environment and see its benefits. Let us see and understand that our life puzzles are becoming increasingly complex and that it is becoming increasingly important to find a good balance between work and leisure.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-827	Madam President, I would like All people have the right to work in a safe and secure working environment, and the work should provide everyone with both personal and professional development. Everyone should be able to complete their professional life with good physical and mental health. Today, a good working environment is not a reality for everyone in the labour market. The working environment deteriorated rapidly during the 1990s and then at a slower pace, with some recovery towards the end of the 00s. But after 2011, the working environment deteriorated again, mainly for women in working-class occupations. Differences between senior officials and workers, including women, in lower-ranking occupations continue to increase. At the same time, working conditions differ between different groups of officials. Women in official occupations have twice as much as men in official occupations jobs with high tension, i.e. high standards and low control. Women in civil servants are also more affected than men in the same group by work-related problems. The shift of power in the labour market to the benefit of employers, increased profitability requirements in the business sector and a lack of resources in public activities has led to the emergence of new hierarchic organisations. Today, more and more workplaces are characterised by slim organisations with hard-hitting work, lower demands on actual skills, low levels of learning and high levels of repetitive elements, high performance requirements and low opportunities for workers to influence their work situation. Savings and rationalisation often lead to increased stress and excitement in the workplace. The research shows links between work-related ill health, slim organisations with high performance requirements and the lack of democracy in working life. Lack of influence has become a risk factor for increased ill health in working life. In most sectors and for too many workers, the demands of working life have increased while their own influence has decreased. High workload, stress and low staffing lead to injuries, ill health and workplace accidents, in some cases with fatal outcomes. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's report on reported occupational injuries in 2017 shows a continued increase in occupational diseases caused by social and organisational problems. The increase is greater among women than among men. I listened to the radio the other day and heard that the Swedish Work Environment Authority will be presenting an analysis in a month's time. Researchers engaged by the agency estimate that every year, in addition to stress and environmental factors, shift work and persistent physical work, the worst risk factors kill at least 500 people each. Many people, of course, enjoy their jobs. I enjoyed my work very well. I worked at Ikea for 15 years and sold kitchens to people. I enjoyed it very much there. Much progress has also been made, particularly with regard to the physical working environment. In almost all workplaces you can raise and lower your work tables. That is how it should be, of course. But in practice, there are many other health and safety factors that are not as easy to touch as we should be working with. Madam President, I would like Full employment is a central objective of the Left Party's economic policy. But it is not enough for everyone who wants and can work to have the opportunity to do so. Good working conditions are an equally important objective of our policy. In practice, these aspirations go hand in hand. An economic policy for full employment also makes it easier to work politically and trade unionally for better working conditions. Today's working life is characterized by increased intensity, stress and high tempo for many people. Over the past few decades, workplaces have slumped and become much more efficient. People who have jobs often find it difficult to combine their work with parenting, family and leisure time – time is simply not enough. In addition, many workers are forced to work overtime. At the same time, hundreds of thousands of people are out of work, insecure employment or involuntary part-time work. That's not how we think it should be. It must be possible for women and men in the labour and civil professions to combine full-time work with parenting, family and leisure without wearing themselves out. We need a human and fair society, where people have real opportunities to develop and live enriching lives. We need a more humane working life with room for more, where people are not worn out prematurely but are able to work until retirement, for how long it will be. Increasing the influence of workers on the organisation and scope of working time is therefore central to achieving good working conditions, a good working environment and a more sustainable working life. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, the decision was taken to introduce an eight-hour working day on 4 August 1919. It happened after decades of union battles where industrial workers went from sixteen hours of exhausting jobs to – finally! - Eight hours. It was 1919, and since then nothing has happened. Well, one thing's happened. We introduced five days of work week in 1971, and then 40 hours became a normal working week. About the same time in the 70s, demands for six hours of working day began to be heard. It was a gender equality issue – six hours working day removes part-time traps for women because women work part-time more often to have time for children and homes, while men always work full-time. On the one hand, it was a solution to the problem of unemployment. Reduced working hours means that more are needed at work. Today, few actively push the issue of a general reduction in working time. The issue is not on the agenda in the same way as before and has not been investigated for more than a decade. There are several explanations. Globalisation has increased the competitive pressure on the Swedish economy in general and on the manufacturing industry in particular. In order to cope with international competition, it is simply not possible, usually the message is. At the same time, international competition itself is nothing new, and both working time and productivity are constantly changing and under the influence of different trends at national and global level. There is much to be said for the fact that we are now faced with a new wave of automation, which increases productivity and leads to the disappearance of certain jobs. In addition, the power of capital owners and asset managers is now stronger than it has been for a very long time. The trade union movement has weakened, and demands for greater flexibility from employers' perspective, such as more hours worked and increased competitiveness through pressure on wages and working conditions, have dominated. The debate is mainly about how to get more people to work more and longer, but it very often lacks a class and gender perspective. There are great differences between the real opportunities of different groups to work high up in the years or to work as many hours as one would really like in the regular labour market. Civility's recipe to overcome the increased stress in working life has focused on different lifestyle solutions for those who have a little more resources through the introduction of tax reductions for domestic services, i.e. that I let someone else clean while I work and so on. The trade unions, which have previously been the driving force behind the issue of reducing working hours, have long been under pressure to fight for defence and, in so far as it has been possible with offensive demands, have had to give priority to wage increases, extra holiday days, the right to full-time employment and permanent employment in the contractual movements. The Left Party wants a human and fair society where people have real opportunities to develop and live enriching lives, as I said before. We want a sustainable labour market where people are able to work until retirement age without being worn out prematurely. We want better conditions for couples to live on an equal footing. Shorter working hours – a general reduction in working hours – would be a decisive step in such progressive and freedom-enlarging developments. The conditions for a general reduction in working time are good. Productivity has doubled in Sweden since the 1970s. At the same time, the share of wages in total output has fallen. The economic scope for reducing working time while maintaining wage levels is thus significant in the economy as a whole. However, how this can be taken into account so that a reduction in working time can be achieved in practice differs considerably from one sector to another. This may be due both to the availability of the relevant labour force and to the negotiating situation vis-à-vis the employer side. In the long term, it is necessary for the reduction of working time to have an impact on statutory normal working time in order to avoid significant gaps between different groups in the labour market in this respect. The Left Party believes that the abbreviation should be made in such a way that workers' income does not decrease. While the conditions for a general reduction in working time are good, there is a great need for a reduction in working time. Working life today is characterised by increased intensity, stress and high tempo. This leads to ill health, stress-related diseases and sick leave. The unequal distribution of unpaid domestic work between women and men remains, as is the fact that more women than men work part-time. A general reduction in working time would help reduce ill health, increase gender equality, reduce labour market gaps and contribute to sustainable development. The issue of a further reduction in working time has been discussed with varying intensity. Some state investigations have been set up, but nothing has happened. The Left Party thinks it is time we did something about this. Madam President, I would like There is a lot more I would like to talk about, because these are really topics I find very interesting. I would like to talk about occupational health care, more resources for the Swedish Work Environment Agency, the position of safety representatives in the workplace and their training time and involuntary part-time work, which I see all the time in the industry I come from. But, my dear friends and comrades, in order for this debate and voting to not be too long, I choose only to ask for the approval of reservation No 20.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-854	Madam President, I would like It's a shame the minister isn't here. We have often talked about previous terms of office that it is important for ministers to be involved in the debates in order to show their interest. The last term of office was Ylva Johansson quite good at attending the debates, but it seems that it is a bit more difficult to participate nowadays. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation 11. The aim of the work environment is, Madam President, to prevent ill health and accidents and to prevent people from being excluded from work. In many jobs, stress is responsible for the increased number of sick leave. Many are constantly connected to the job, and there will be no chance of recovery. Many companies do well the systematic work environment work required by the law by carrying out annual monitoring of the working environment and, in fact, also remedying the shortcomings that exist. They interact with the workplace partners and safety representatives, but also with outside actors in rehabilitation matters, such as social security funds and occupational health care. The government parties have previously made millions of investments at the Swedish Work Environment Authority, but not in their budget last autumn; there they made savings. Even in the M-KD budget, we have made cuts and expect improvements in operations. With several hundred million in investments, the proportion of workplace visits changed from 3.4 per cent to 3.5 per cent of all workplaces. This shows that we cannot allocate resources to visit all workplaces. Instead, you have to work smarter and focus on various vulnerable jobs. This also makes the work in part already now, and we should continue to do so. We Christian Democrats have put forward proposals to develop interactive instruments and, in one of our reservations, propose examining the conditions for introducing a system of health and safety declarations. This means simplification, in which employers and employees together produce these documents. You need to try more modern ways to review work environment work in the future. Madam President, I would like Preventing fatal accidents at work is, of course, a priority. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has an important role in making impact on certain workplaces and perhaps especially in workplaces that are known to be vulnerable. They must also work preventively. People dying at work is never acceptable. These are very specific cases that have been raised here earlier in the debate. It is important to understand that this is extremely tragic. Of course, we should have a clear zero vision of fatal accidents at work. The government has been saying for quite some time that it is zero vision that applies. Yet the number of deaths in the labour force has increased. In 2018, 50 persons in gainful employment died, which is an increase from 2016, when there were 37 persons. This is more than the number of dead as a result of gang-related shootings. This is not acceptable, and it calls for strong efforts from employers, workers' organisations and authorities in the prevention and enforcement work. Madam President, I would like I note that the Government has now asked Statskontoret to evaluate the Government's work environment strategy. There's a zero-vision target for fatal accidents. It is important to identify what needs to be done to seriously reduce the number of deaths on jobs. Now we see worrying signs of the increasing number of sick leave. A broad approach is needed here to address the negative developments. Especially for young people. Mental illness is increasing and is now the second most common cause of sick leave in the private sector, and for women it is the most common cause of sick leave. Occupations with an increased risk of sick leave appear in schools, health care and care – areas in which women are dominant. We Christian Democrats believe that the Swedish Work Environment Authority should develop tools for employers in order to identify how women and men are exposed to risk factors that lead to sick leave to varying degrees in the workplace. During the previous alliance government, the Swedish Work Environment Authority received a special assignment in 2011 – 2016 regarding women's work environment, with the aim of improving women's working environment. The conclusions of the work are that the working environment in Sweden is unequal. It is important that we continue to investigate and research women's ill health. A more equal working environment that counteracts ill health due to organisational and social factors is important. We Christian Democrats want the government to give the Swedish Work Environment Authority a specific task to map how women and men are exposed to risk factors that risk leading to sick leave and develop preventive work in particularly vulnerable workplaces. Finally, Madam President, the government parties are putting their hope in a strategy for the health and safety of a modern working life. But today's working life requires more flexibility and more change of job than before. Working tasks are changing rapidly, and social skills are required by everyone in the world of work. Work environment must also be adapted to all new requirements and challenges. Labour law needs to be reviewed in order to have a more flexible working life, so that the ill-health rate can be kept down. Workers must be able to feel good at work. It should be a joy to go to work. I think we can all agree on that. With this, Madam President, I would like to ask again for the approval of reservation 11.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-871	Madam President, I would like It's as if the whole floor is rocking and the walls are getting closer and closer. My legs are shaking, my heart is beating so hard and my mouth is getting dry. I need to know where the nearest toilet is. I'm afraid to fall down even though I'm already sitting down. This is a rendering of how a friend experienced a panic attack. Mental illness is today the second most common cause of sick leave. We've already heard that here. We have also heard that among women this is the most common cause. Why do we feel so bad when we're doing so well? is the title of a book that came out a few years ago. I do not share the author's conclusions, but the title has just stayed with me. There's something more than I've thought about. It is my hope that this is an area in which we can eventually find some common solutions to what we have identified today, despite our different political approaches, as a common problem. This is a gender equality issue. Reporting on occupational diseases among women due to organisational and other problems has increased eight years in a row. It's not about what we sometimes describe as a bit of a globular that the puzzle of life doesn't make sense – that women today should be so perfect and so well trained that we get sick. What are we really doing when we say that? Well, we put the responsibility back on women: why do you take so much, why do you not restrict yourself, it's just to ignore all the advice about physical activity? It is a gender equality issue and a feminist issue. Much of the stress and overload experienced by many workers is due to poor planning from the employer. New and higher demands cause stress and burnout. This is particularly true when higher requirements do not involve more resources or influence over decisions. Madam President, I would like However, not all mental illness is due to stress or overload. Mental illness linked to the workplace can also be caused by sexual harassment, discrimination and other forms of vulnerability. During the metoo last autumn we saw how many Swedish workplaces were characterized by insecurity, limitlessness and uncertainty about how the closest colleagues or managers would behave. The calls exposed systematic repression and violations suffered by the majority of women in their workplaces. In the long run, this can lead to mental illness, among other things. Overall, it has become clear that Swedish work environment policy needs a renewal and a change of direction, so that mental illness, bullying and sexual harassment are taken seriously and prevented. Madam President, I would like These are good words, but what do the Liberals want? First of all, we want it to be easier for employees to report their workplaces to the Swedish Work Environment Agency and the Discrimination Ombudsman. A police report in the event of a metoo situation is necessary but far from sufficient. A workplace where such behaviour has occurred needs changes. When this does not happen, it needs attention and clarification. This can be done through the Arbetsmiljöverket and the Discrimination Ombudsman. Secondly, tips and notifications could be used to a greater extent to detect workplaces with a poor working environment. Compared to Norway's corresponding authority, for example, the Swedish Work Environment Authority receives far fewer tips. Thirdly, we want to give safety representatives a changed role. The basis for a new safety representative organisation should be that they should no longer be appointed by workers' organisations but by workers. The number of union members has decreased, which means that more and more workplaces do not have a local trade union organisation that can appoint a safety representative. Companies and workplaces are different today than before. Madam President, I would like Neither I nor the party to which I belong are naive. Let's be honest. The proposals we are presenting here will not lead to improvements in the mental health of women tomorrow or even next year. What we present may hopefully lay the groundwork for some improvement, but it will require much more. Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all of our reservations, but for time winning, I would now like to endorse only reservation 15.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-887	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech by calling for the committee's proposals in the AU10 report and rejecting all reservations and motions. This is my first debate on health and safety at work. It's a new area for me. During the last parliamentary term, I had the privilege of working on traffic issues in many ways. What I can welcome in the debate that has taken place on the report on health and safety at work is that there is a rather broad consensus between the political parties. It bodes well for this term of office and for developments in this area – very much so. There has been a lot of progress in the area of health and safety at work during the period 2015– 2018. I also think that many of the speakers here have borne witness to this. However, it is relatively satisfied with the health and safety strategy that has been developed. But our motto in the Social Democrats is still that we are proud but not satisfied. That's about how you can sum up the work environment work. I think it is dangerous if one is ever satisfied with the work. Work must be constantly developed and continued in the field of health and safety at work. During the last period, we increased the grant to the Swedish Work Environment Authority quite substantially. There were big efforts to try to get a better situation for those who are professionals. We increased state contributions to regional protection activities. We set aside special funds to finance work-life research on, among other things, the working environment in women-dominated sectors and women's work-related health. We increased the funding for occupational health care. Last but not least, we developed a new work environment strategy, something that we have not had for quite many years in Sweden before. This strategy applies between 2016 and 2020. As many of you have said and as many of you in the hall know, in any case, Statskontoret has now been given a mandate to evaluate that strategy. The aim is also to look at what we need to reinforce in the forthcoming strategy, which will be developed here, from 2020 onwards. We placed a new work environment authority in Gävle: Mynak. I was particularly pleased to hear that one of the speakers here praised Mr Mynak. This has not always been the case in this Chamber, especially when the Work Life Institute was decommissioned, which worked very much on labour market issues and work-related issues. We from the Social Democratic Group had the privilege of visiting Mynak in Gävle a couple of weeks ago. We got a very good picture of the activities carried out there. Even if it is in its infancy, there is much that can be used. It is about the research, the work and the follow-up that has been done within the agency. We have strengthened the supervision of companies that violate the health and safety acquis in order to gain competitive advantages. We also had the opportunity to share in different ways. Above all, we have introduced, linked to the occupational health and safety strategy, coordinated supervision in various sectors, involving several authorities, which has also produced results. There are three priority areas in the current OSH strategy. It is a zero vision in terms of fatal accidents and prevention of accidents at work. There's a lot more to do there. We have heard in the debate here that, unfortunately, it has not turned around in this way in the case of fatal accidents. We have a zero vision of fatal accidents. It is a question of going one step further now and formulating requirements for action so that we can minimise the fatal accidents and simply eliminate them. It is also about a sustainable working life and psychosocial work environment. There are a number of areas that we need to continue to work on. In connection with the strategy, we decided on a study that was tasked with identifying the challenges of modern working life, analysing whether the provisions on occupational safety and health are relevant and appropriate, and reviewing the access rights and powers of regional safety representatives. Here it is very clear that we have more to do in the forthcoming work environment strategy and in the forthcoming work environment work that we have to deal with as legislators. I think that the fatal accidents are very much a matter of concern. Several of you have graphically described various incidents. I'm not gonna do it. I find every accident very regrettable. Above all, every death is regrettable. Here it is very much a question of having to make several efforts in parallel. It is about strengthening the physical working environment and looking at measures, actions, legislation and sanctions. There are many parts that need to be handled linked to this. And there is no answer to the complex question. These are issues that we will deal with in the period ahead, not least in the work on the forthcoming work environment strategy. We should remember that the Work Environment Act was introduced in 1977. It was one of the laws that belonged to labour law, even if it is a little side by side in this part. It has served Sweden's labour market well, but perhaps you need to look at whether there is something in it that needs to be changed. Work on the new strategy on health and safety at work will take shape quite soon, once the evaluation of the old one has been carried out. We from our group have had the privilege of being out and talking to the trade unions in particular. What are the issues that need to be included in a new strategy on health and safety at work? Issues raised in this section concern increased sanctions for breaches of legislation and regulations. It is about faster investigations of occupational health and safety offences and deaths. It is about access rights and the right to act for regional safety representatives. Above all, it is also very much about better knowledge among employers about occupational health and safety responsibility. So there are many elements that we will deal with in the forthcoming strategy. Finally, I would like to say something about the section on working time. I would like to begin by saying that the work carried out by the social partners in the public sector is precisely to increase the proportion of full-time workers and that it will also become a norm within the municipalities, county councils and regions is precisely a work carried out between the social partners and not something that we have legislated on. I believe that this work is best carried out by the parties. I hope and wish that more parties in other areas of contract will also get started with this work in order to ensure that employees can make a living on their wages and also have a better working environment. In these words, I would like to call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-910	Madam President, I would like The reason why I am asking for a reply to Johan Andersson, who, as I know, has a great deal of commitment to this issue and who also has a humble attitude to the problems the government has in connection with this area, is that the number of deaths has increased so significantly. As I said in my speech, there were a total of nine deaths in January, which is the highest in ten years. In 2018, 58 people were killed, and in four years 170 people were killed. It is also the fourth year in a row that deaths are increasing. The trend is thus in the completely opposite direction towards the government's intention to reduce deaths and also zero vision. Many contributions have been preferred by Johan Andersson, but we see that these efforts do not have an effect. Let me give you some examples of what has emerged from the debate. The Deputy Director General Håkan Olsson of the Swedish Work Environment Authority states that there are no concrete targets for reducing the number of fatal accidents. Svenska Dagbladet has reported in a review that the cooperation between all authorities does not work painlessly. The Ombudsman is critical that the investigation of a fatal accident at LKAB in Norrbotten was not completed after four years. The police authorities also feel that the processing times are too long and that too few investigations lead to prosecutions and convictions. I wonder what Johan Andersson, on behalf of the government, the Social Democrats and also the Minister for Labour, thinks about the worrying figures regarding the number of deaths in our workplaces.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-915	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Saila Quicklund, for the questions! Just as I began my speech with, we are not proud or satisfied about this. There is much more to be done, and we will not give up until we have reached the zero vision fully in the case of fatal accidents. We believe that a great deal of action will be required. Saila Quicklund himself points to some of these, and there are probably several. What has been pre-emptive is deliberations that the government has called with the social partners, precisely in order to produce a catalogue of measures and actions to be implemented so that not a single fatal accident, I would argue, will occur in the workplace. But there are many different parts to this. Of course, it's about investigative resources. Of course, it is something you need to look at: How can it look like in a good way? It is also very much about the responsibility for the work environment, i.e. the systematic work environment management, where there are currently legislation, regulations and rules that will be able to cover that work well. It is also about the possibility and time to be able to carry out a good and systematic work environment work out. So there are many pieces that we will have to come back to in this work, and we are, of course, working quickly. It is just as important for all of us to be able to clarify this issue.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-920	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Andersson, for your answer. A zero vision is good, but it must also be filled with content such as strategies and sufficient resources. Obviously, it doesn't work. Let me take a few more examples. Officials at the National Agency for Environmental and Working Environment cases have also previously testified that the Swedish Work Environment Authority does not take investigations of deaths at workplaces sufficiently seriously. The newspaper Work reports about the police in Region South who have too little resources to handle the number of reports of occupational health and safety offences and that they were too few in the investigations of these deaths. We can therefore see that there are shortcomings in the interaction between the authorities. The resources are too small, fatal accidents are not given sufficient priority and there are long processing times. I am absolutely convinced that those who work at the Swedish Work Environment Authority and other authorities and organisations will certainly do what they can on the basis of the conditions, it is not, but there is clearly a lack of management and control. There, too, the Minister for Labour has a great responsibility if the authorities do not function optimally. There is a need for more clarity from the government. Many here have pointed out the major shortcomings. Let us also remember that the government has actually been working on these issues for five years, but the number of fatal accidents is still rising dramatically. It is quite serious, and it is quite clear that efforts need to be improved. I am also clearly aware that it is the employers, trade unions and safety representatives who have the greatest responsibility in these matters. However, if this does not work, the Minister for Labour and the Government have the ultimate responsibility for the functioning of the authorities. Here we see major shortcomings. Let's remind ourselves that there were 170 dead in four years and 58 in 2018. I feel a great worry. How am I supposed to calm those who feel the same anxiety as me?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-927	Madam President, I would like There is a very clear manual to follow as an employer if there has been a serious accident, serious incident or death at work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority must be notified quickly and without delay. The inspection by the Swedish Work Environment Authority must be carried out promptly. This should be handled very quickly, and it should of course also end in decisions quite early on if there are measures that can be implemented in the short term to eliminate any other damage or consequential damage in some way. A decision must also be taken on a possible prosecution. This signal is very clear to the Swedish Work Environment Authority in the material available. So, as far as the handling of fatal accidents and serious accidents is concerned, there is, I would argue, a job that is to the fullest. The problem is that it takes a very long time to investigate. Then again, there is a great deal of prevention, and I think we have much more to do in terms of training and ensuring that we have good procedures.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-930	Madam President, I would like Thank you for allowing me to open the debate. I do so by calling for the Left Party's reservation 1 in the report to be approved. Of course, I support both of our reservations, but for time to come, I am abstaining from calling for the approval of both. I note that every year, Sweden is becoming more and more unequal. Sweden is in many ways unique, but not in a way that promotes equality. On the contrary! Sweden seems to be the only modern industrial country that does not have either inheritance and gift tax, property tax or property tax linked to the value of the property. Moreover, corporate tax is low and is planned to be even lower. It may be worth reminding the Social Democrats of this. This is, of course, linked to the report that we are debating today. New tax rules are proposed for the transfer of ownership between family members in the sheep company. The background to the proposal is that the current rules sometimes make it more favourable from a tax perspective for the owner of a pet company to switch the company generation to an external party compared to a related party. The proposal aims to address this asymmetry in the tax system. We support the aim of the new rules, namely that generational change to relatives should not be put at a disadvantage in comparison with the sale of companies to outsiders. However, we are critical of the government's method. We believe that the tax rules for members of small companies and the so-called 3:12 rules need to be reformed. The background to the 3:12 rules is Sweden's dual tax system, which means that earned income is taxed according to a progressive tax scale and that property income is taxed with proportional tax. The purpose of the 3:12 rules is, inter alia, to prevent the conversion of higher-taxed earned income into lower-taxed capital income. The rules also aim to try to estimate in a flat-rate way what is earned income and what is income from capital. Since the introduction of the 3:12 rules, a number of changes have been made which together have led to the regulatory framework becoming more and more generous. Today's 3:12 rules have come to be used for what they were supposed to counter from the beginning, namely the transformation of income. For example, dividends to shareholders who have qualified shares increased by around 400 per cent in the period 2004 to 2013, while wages for the partners have developed weaker than for the labour force as a whole. This was the background to the investigation The review of the tax rules for members of small-time companies, which in 2017 resulted in the Council of Law referral Changed tax rules for members of small-time companies. The legislative referral contained various proposals aimed at reducing income conversion, including proposals to increase the tax rate on dividends and capital gains. Madam President, I would like There is a difference between labour income and capital income. This is where we get to the heart of the problem. We see income inequality increasing as the gap widens. We see that the trend is moving towards higher inequality in wealth, and we see increased capital income that benefits the rich in particular. They continue to be concentrated in them in the top income layer. 90 per cent of capital income goes to the tenth of the population with the highest income. The core of the problem is precisely the big difference between those who make money from low-taxed capital income and those with regular jobs and wages. If you read the Economic Council's report last year, you will find that about half of the increase in disparities since 1995 can be attributed to capital income, which is also unevenly distributed between women and men. The creditors are a little afraid of a solidarity wage policy and tax after sustainability. But perhaps it is understandable when there is so much research on the subject today. Today, research shows that high-income earners tend to be more sensitive to tax than low-income earners. In the high-income group, the most sensitive are those with the highest incomes. One explanation may be that high-income earners have greater opportunities to circumvent tax than low-income earners. In particular, it concerns business owners who can convert income from higher taxed wages into lower taxed capital income. We're back in the basic problem again, and I'm worried about that. The Borg are responding with more accurate reforms for the richest, and this is happening at the same time as preschool teachers have too many children to take care of, women in rural areas are getting more and more into safe childbirth and staff leave welfare jobs because of low wages and stressful days. Madam President, I would like I began by stating that every year Sweden becomes more and more unequal. It is reduced taxes for high-income workers, plans to loosen labour law and yes to welfare gains. Then the government responds to the order of the Liberals, with the abolition of the military tax. They invest in a small click of well-being and well-behaved above all men. I am convinced that the billions will be more useful if we raise the general child allowance or increase the salaries of the country's nurses working in home care, home care or retirement homes. I am convinced that the billions will be more useful if we increase guarantee pensions even more. Instead, we are now getting another complement to an unjust tax policy. As LO points out in its referral to the investigation, we fear that the proposal will lead to precisely the transformation of income – the one we would fight from the outset. It is against this background that the Riksdag should reject the Government's proposal as a whole.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-942	Madam President, I would like Entrepreneurs and businesses are the foundation of well-being. It is through the jobs and tax revenues that companies create that resources for health care, school and care for the elderly are created. The policy must therefore facilitate and simplify entrepreneurship. A good entrepreneurial policy is also a good job policy and a good welfare policy. The ability of companies to survive over time is also the chance for society to survive over time. This goes hand in hand, Madam President. In a report from 2017, the organisation Företagarna points out that more than four out of ten business leaders are 55 years of age or older. One sixth is 65 years of age or older. The vast majority of managers lead small companies that employ hundreds of thousands of people together. For the society in which these companies operate and for the employees of companies, long-term survival is a crucial issue. In all these small businesses, which are run by the owner on a daily basis, society and employees depend to a large extent on the owner. In order for the company to continue to operate even after the manager has left the business, the regulatory framework that facilitates surrender is required. The matter we are dealing with today is about what ownership changes between relatives should look like. It is an important issue, but it is not the only important issue. I think, for example, that we need to look at how we make it easier for the staff to take over a company when the owner no longer wants or is able to run it. It is not always as close as it is to the company that wants to continue to operate, and therefore many different models are needed to ensure the company's continued existence. So to today's dossier, Madam President. The bill now on the table is a result of the Christian Democrats' and Moderates' budgets. In the autumn's budget we set aside SEK 170 million per year to facilitate generational shifts for entrepreneurs, and we announced to the government that the government should return with proposals for legislation. The bill now on the table states that it is this announcement that has led to the bill, and it is this statement of revenue that underpins the analysis of the public financial impact. It is gratifying that this part is now being implemented, and it will of course have a positive impact on small businesses. It contributes to viable businesses over time, and it is a good step on the way to facilitating generational change. In our budget work last autumn, we started from the investigation that existed, because we saw that it was important that this was done quickly, but we also know that there is more to do. There are still unnecessary restrictions. Generation changes will not be treated in the same way as sales to external parties as it will be a condition that the former owner or shareholder has ceased to operate fully in the family business. This means that there are high demands on family businesses to plan for generational change in good time, and this means that unnecessary obstacles that make generation changes difficult remain. It may not seem like a very big thing to require a previous owner to leave the company, but the fact is that it is often a requirement from the creditor that the transferor remains in the company for a while. It is necessary before confidence in the new owner is fully built up, as is also pointed out by several consultation bodies. The report I mentioned earlier, Madam President, said that one sixth of managers are 65 years of age or older. It is also possible to read about when entrepreneurs believe that a change of ownership will take place. A quarter believe that the change of ownership will take place within ten years, and one sixth believe that it will take place within five years. So it's a bit of a rush. The Christian Democrats support the proposal that is now on the table, thanks to the budget we presented with the Moderates, but in addition to that, we want the Riksdag to announce to the Government that it will return with new legislation that will remove the unnecessary restrictions that will still remain. And we want it to go fast; by the end of 2020/ 2021 we should have even better rules in place. With that, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation 3.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-951	Madam President, I would like The problem of transfers of ownership to family members in small companies is not new in any way. It is one of several known problems with the so-called 3:12 rules. These rules are basically based on the dual taxation we have heard of from the pulpit, that is to say that you simply do not pay the same tax on capital income as you do on labour income. Perhaps the rules were clear, or at least clearer, when they came into being in the tax reform of the 1990s. Since then, however, they have evolved and changed, not only because tax incentives aimed primarily at the capital part have made it more and more interesting to transform and pretend that labour is capital when taxation is to take place, but also because of clever arrangements and new ideas that exploit the difficulties involved in determining what kind of income you actually have and what tax you should pay on it. What we are debating today is part of the system to combat income transformation, but it is one that is not as motivated as it once was and should be changed. We tried to do so during the last parliamentary term, but we had to slap our fingers in the form of threats of censure, for example. Now we come forward with the proposal again. Those who want to transfer their companies to children or other close relatives should of course be allowed to make it as simple and smooth as possible and without having unnecessary disadvantages compared to others. However, it is not only these that go under the few companies and the 3:12 rules. It cannot be that people in some industries should earn far more than others not because they work more or are more competent but only because they have a smart tax scheme available. It is at least as wrong as the problem we are now doing something about, that is, in some cases it is less tax-wise to sell your company to your children than to an entirely outside person. In all respects, Madam President, the tax system must be seen as fair and reasonable. For us Social Democrats, this applies in all respects. We cannot live with the fact that some people are disadvantaged for no reason, but we cannot accept that some people benefit from reorganising and balling with income. However, some others do not seem to have any problems with this at all. As I said, when we tried to do something about these elements, we were threatened with censure on our ministers from the bourgeois parties. This should be seen against the background that Anders Borg meritably tightened up the rules and introduced a requirement of 4 per cent ownership in order to get access to the rules. However, it did not really help; instead, it got several large audit firms, law firms and other consultancy firms to launch new companies and reorganize themselves to meet the limits, even though there were considerably more employees who would share the 25 shares that were actually supposed to exist. They just got around the rules. We should honor the legacy of Borg and what he did by ensuring that the rules he saw need for and began to build also come into place. The problem that the bourgeois then saw is not gone, but it survives. The injustice is still there, and everyone knows that this was not the idea – ever. Nor are we talking about very low-paid jobs, and these are not areas where the risks of entrepreneurship or the efforts in the form of capital are particularly high. These are groups that can and should pay for what they are supposed to. It sticks in the eyes of ordinary people when such arrangements are allowed to continue, and society is torn apart when we allow it. Today, we are remedying a problem for small businesses in relation to sales to relatives, but tomorrow we will also have to address the other problems. I support the committee's proposal and rejection of the motions, with the hope that the future tax reform that will lead to the widening gap will return to the problems that remain in the rules for small companies.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-959	Madam President, I would like It all starts with the jobs. They generate the tax, which provides funding for all our welfare. Today it is the report of the Committee on Taxation 17 that is being debated. The Moderates support the proposal. The report deals with new tax rules for the transfer of ownership between family members in sheep's businesses. One of the aims of the new rules is to ensure that generational change to related parties is not disadvantaged in comparison with the sale of the company to a third party. KD has raised an interesting motion to remove the restriction that the former partner should have ceased to operate in the family business. No similar requirement exists when sales are made to external parties. The Moderates welcome the fact that the KD has initiated a possible improvement, but this may need to be reviewed more before implementation is possible. Much needs to be done for increased growth in our Swedish companies. Madam President, I would like I myself am an entrepreneur and have been an entrepreneur for most of my life. In the big picture, the small sums involved are, but for a small business, it is an important carrot. It is an encouragement to the risks and sacrifices that the entrepreneur has for a long time made for his company to create the profit – a surplus – that can be collected through the lower capital taxation of a certain amount, in a window with a clear floor and ceiling. Entrepreneurs take risks, invest money and live with their companies 24:7, 365 days a year. In addition, they generate jobs so that more people can work and be part of the tax collective. It is simply about real jobs. The background to the review was that business transfers within the family would not be disadvantaged compared to external sales. A positive change is that the related party concept is limited so that it is only the spouse who is not allowed to operate in companies that have similar activities if the shares are to be regarded as unqualified under the 3:12 rules, in order to use the lower taxation of capital. The proposal is moving in the right direction; more needs to be done to strengthen entrepreneurship. As the KD points out, there are still differences that disadvantage intra-family business transfers. It seems more important to plug into the possibility of income transformation than to simplify and improve for businesses. This means that the rules should not make it possible to move from wage taxation to capital taxation and thus avoid tax. My view is that there are substantial amounts that have been taxed in order to raise the salary base on which the dividend is based. This rule probably creates higher pay and more taxes. When you read repeatedly about the fear of money being collected through capital taxation, you see a sad view of entrepreneurship. Madam President, I would like Sweden needs to become more business friendly. The companies are injections into our tax collective. Companies generate jobs for more people. Let us make the country more business friendly and remove unnecessary bureaucracy and complicated rules! Sweden needs more growing companies. They are the foundation of the prosperity we all cherish and want to strengthen. We Moderates think that companies need to be appreciated more than taxed. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I quote the Regional Manager of the Entrepreneurs Västra Götaland: . Small businesses are of great importance. It's a big deal! Much greater than they get appreciation and recognition for. And most important is of course the person behind the company; the initiator, the risk taker, the developer and the doer. The entrepreneur! .....................................................
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-970	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved. The number of older entrepreneurs in Sweden has increased, especially now that the 40s have passed retirement age. Society should then make it easier for them to transfer their businesses to their children. But in reality it is the opposite – the tax is now higher than if the company is sold to any outsider. Instead of being taxed at 25% on the sale, as otherwise with unlisted shares, you risk up to 55-60% tax because the profit under 3:12 rules may be taxed as income from service. Taxation should not be higher in the case of transfers to related parties than in the case of transfers to third parties. Moreover, the fact that the tax rules lock up the owner's capital from being able to invest and prevent the transferor from operating in the company is directly counterproductive for the development opportunities of these companies. The proposed amendment to this bill now makes it the same condition if you choose to transfer your business to a family member as if you are doing it to someone outside the family. The amendment extends the scope of the specific rules on dividends and capital gains on shares in sheep companies – the so-called 3:12 rules. The proposal will apply the 3:12 rules even where the same or similar activities are carried out in an indirectly owned undertaking. Many family entrepreneurs are now pleased with this change – entrepreneurs who have faced a change of generation but have chosen to wait in the light of the unfavourable taxation of the older generation. The change is long awaited, and many can now resume their postponed plans to allow the family business to be taken over by a new generation. Madam President, I would like I myself have been self-employed for a number of years. I know how difficult it is to run a business and work seven days a week and still barely be able to charge any salary. All companies have at some point been small and started by an individual. It is the small businesses that are building up Sweden. I welcome all legislative and regulatory changes that can simplify for small businesses. We Swedish democrats protect the Swedish tradition of running companies within the family. We want to safeguard this form of ownership and facilitate future generational changes. We therefore see it as very positive and a step in the right direction that the government is now presenting this proposal.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-978	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a lovely debate so far! I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Madam President, I would like After all, it is entrepreneurial people – entrepreneurs and innovators – who build Sweden and build the wealth that we then need to distribute as welfare. It is people who are working hard, who invest their own time and equity, who take their own risks and who ensure that we in Parliament can get wages, that the police and nurse can go to work and that firefighters extinguish our houses if there is a fire. If you do not realise that all of this starts with an enterprising person – an entrepreneur or an innovator – who himself takes risks, you have not really understood what we are doing in this house, Madam President. The left-wing Tony Haddou stood here in the speaker's seat earlier in this debate and talked about that the rules will now be more generous. But, Madam President, we cannot be generous to enterprising people, can we? What we're doing here is taking their money. Madam President, I would like It is the enterprising people who are generous in organising jobs for others. They are the ones who are generous when they make sure to contribute to Swedish welfare by paying taxes. They are the ones who make sure to be generous by taking risks and investing equity. Nevertheless, we have taxed them unfairly. Madam President, I would like The same Left Party person accused us in the Liberals of pushing through the military tax cut that is to come. I take that accusation with quite a lot of pride; I admit it is true. But, Madam President, I find it odd that a left-wing party person, who well wants people of all backgrounds to be able to get up in life, be able to achieve success and build their own power and self-realisation, wants to ensure that people who make an effort, who take their own risks, who make an extra contribution and who, whatever their background, actually make a contribution, will receive higher taxes. I think it is obvious, Madam President, that we should be grateful to people who are entrepreneurial and who have a high productivity in the labour market and who therefore have to pay a lot of tax because they are actually generous to the rest of us. Madam President, I would like In addition to what we have talked about earlier today in this House, when it comes to generational changes, we should realise the following: starting a company is not just something we do with your own money, your own toil and your own knowledge and skills. Setting up a company, Madam President, is actually an effort for yourself and for all your relatives. It's kind of hard. Most companies don't make profits in the first few years. Most companies impose a heavy burden on their own family and on their own social life. In most companies, children and relatives help and make sure that the company is able to walk around. It is clear that it is unfair then that a change of generation should be taxed differently than if you sell to someone else, who has not been involved in contributing by perhaps not going to football practice, by taking a day off from summer vacation and helping in the company or by contributing in some other way. Of course, we in this House must ensure that there is fairer taxation in the event of generational change. In fact, I think that we owe it to the enterprising people – entrepreneurs and innovators and their loved ones – who have built this country strongly.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-990	Madam President, I would like We are now going to decide on something that is extremely important, namely simplification for small and medium-sized enterprises. Today we are in Sweden in a situation where many entrepreneurs are in need of selling or transferring their business. We know, frankly, that Sweden may not be the world's best at creating simple rules for companies. It is therefore particularly important that it is now becoming more uniform, fair and simple, despite the fact that the Swedish Tax Agency has flagged the opposite in some preliminary work on this proposal. I and the Center Party believe that as an entrepreneur you should leave the business to the person you think develops it best. It is the best thing for growth and for the well-being of our country. We know that companies are the engines of welfare. Four out of five jobs are created in small businesses. I look forward to entrepreneurs getting the appreciation they deserve from everyone, from citizens, from municipalities, from public activities and from public authorities. We've got a little bit left to walk there. The fact that tax rules should affect whether to sell or transfer your company to related or third parties is absurd. All the rules that can counteract this are good. Madam President, I would like For the Center Party, the need to facilitate generational change has been a central issue for a long time. It was precisely the difficulty of generational change that led the then Minister of Economic Affairs Annie Lööf in 2014 to set up an inquiry into the 3:12 rules, which is part of the result that is today on our table. Today's report means that it should be the same tax in the case of a transfer of a pet company to a related party as to a third party. The fact that this has even been an issue demonstrates the need for reform in Swedish tax policy. It is in small and medium-sized enterprises that jobs are created and have been so for a long time, if not always. Over 95 per cent of all enterprises employ fewer than 50 people. In addition, the vast majority of these small companies are owner-led, which means, of course, that the owner is extremely important in day-to-day operations. Not infrequently, the small company is also a family business. This is particularly common in rural areas, where agriculture and forestry are often family businesses. In addition, compared to many other countries, Sweden has a large proportion of companies owned and operated by people over the age of 55, as we have heard many people talk about here, and over the past 25 years the average age has increased. Owner-led companies with long-term involvement in the business are good for the economy. The tax disadvantage of remaining in the family is likely to be counterproductive. Since the average age of managers is high, around 53 years in most counties, a large proportion of entrepreneurs are constantly faced with decisions on how companies should live on, what should happen to what is often a life's work. Here, then, the tax rules, as they have been so far, have been the ones that have overturned business decisions. The entrepreneur may simply end the business rather than pass it on. The fact that, in some cases, the tax on the transferor of a family enterprise could have been twice as high as that on the seller of the company to an outsider is preposterous. We hope it will be eliminated. Research also shows that companies transferred to related parties are more viable. This is why today's decision is particularly important and will strengthen the conditions for entrepreneurs and job creators throughout the country.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1003	Madam President, I would like Now is the time to talk about the important issue of mineral policy. It is a basic industry for Sweden that contributes to substantial growth but also brings complex issues. In mineral policy we are often forced to make difficult balances, but basically this is an age-old industry that underpins today's prosperity and industrial society. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected except for reservation 1, which I would like to endorse. In Olsbenning in Västmanland there was already in the 1100s a cabin place. Iron was produced there in a blast furnace. The iron was made by hill-farming farmers, and the location at Svartån gave hydropower to the foundry. The large forest also gave charcoal to the cab operation. You can read about this at Ekomuseum Bergslagen. Olsbenning in Norberg, Västmanland, has Europe's oldest known blast furnace. It is one of very many old mountain areas in our country and a crucial part of our common history. As an SO teacher, I have taught students that the iron that was broken in Bergslagen is the foundation of our prosperity and our industrial society. Västerås and Stockholm were really ports for iron, which were exported to the rest of the country and which gave us the economic position that we have today. What I want to say about this is that the minerals are our base, our asset, our livelihood. It has always been so and hopefully will always remain so. They're where they're located until we decide to use them. The mines are the backbone and engine of Swedish industry. They should be handled with care and wisdom, and they have contributed through generations to innovation and industrialisation. We Social Democrats want to continue to use the minerals wisely and responsibly, taking into account and sustainability for all. Madam President, I would like Sweden accounts for 90% of total iron ore production in the EU. Our iron ore mines are located in Norrbotten. We are the largest producer of lead and zinc and a large producer of many other base metals. The mines are located except in Norrbotten in Västerbotten, Dalarna and Örebro County. We also have the mine of refractory clay in Bjuv in Skåne. Bergsbruket is thus spread over Sweden but is often far from the big cities. About 7 500 people are employed directly in the mining industry. The enumeration factor is usually counted times three by how many are indirectly employed, so it is a relatively large industry that gives huge revenues to Sweden. We are a rather small but leading mining nation. We'll be proud of that. Our mines and mining companies are at the forefront of productivity and digitalisation, and we have world-leading companies that supply equipment to mines all over the world. Jobs outside universities are being created here. And here is the big shift in technology: the shift towards battery vehicles underground, which can once again put Sweden on the map. We can produce green minerals! In this context, the Swedish company Epiroc recently had to deliver a pink mine drill to a mine in Mongolia. The Swedish woman who is the business area manager went there and handed over the keys, because this was the first mine in Mongolia that had hired women to work underground. Swedish innovation and gender equality are spreading throughout the world. Madam President, I would like The need for raw materials is increasing rapidly as more and more people achieve a standard of living where refrigerators, bicycles and mobile phones are possible, while today we are dependent on metals and minerals from Congo and China, not least in order to achieve the important objectives of the Paris Agreement. The need for lithium, found in Sweden's bedrock, is predicted to increase by 2,500 per cent by 2030. The minerals are needed for our growth, for innovation and to be able to transform into a sustainable society. It is better that they are broken in a responsible way here than in places with much worse conditions and with consequences elsewhere on earth. Having access to important minerals is a strength, and it reduces our vulnerability. Therefore, we must continue to develop a sustainable mining industry in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I am aware that the permit processes are long. In order for us to remain at the forefront and be competitive, an efficient and predictable licensing process is essential. It needs landowners, reindeer owners, residents and above all Swedish mining industry. With the right system and the right processes, I think it is perfectly possible to have an effective permit process while not compromising the consideration of important natural values, cultural values and other things that we want to preserve in the surrounding society. There is work going on in the Government Office and our authorities. Therefore, I do not see the fact that Parliament should, at this point, address an announcement to the government concerning shorter or simpler permit processes as meaningful. Madam President, I would like In order for the mining industry and industry to develop throughout the country, it is important that there is a surrounding society that works. This requires investment in skills provision and substantial investment in infrastructure and welfare. It is therefore welcome that the government has said yes to the construction of the Norrbotnia Line and that efforts are being made on railway maintenance. It is necessary for the industry to develop. I'm proud of Lapphyttan in Olsbenning. I am proud of our history and of the fact that we in Sweden jointly protect each other and about sustainable conditions for growth and development. In the Swedish bedrock there are seeds for the future and conditions for future climate innovations. A Sweden that holds together is the Social Democratic objective, also in the field of mineral policy.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1017	Madam President, I would like Of all the minerals in the bedrock, it is about 1% that we are going to debate. These are minerals of great importance to industry. Sweden is the EU's leading mining country, and the Moderates believe that our mining industry should be the world leader from an environmental perspective. Minerals come in a lot, from mobile phones to electric cars and from wind turbines to high-speed trains. They are absolutely essential if we are to reduce our CO2 emissions. Energy storage will be one of the major issues for the future. The minerals used in batteries are needed for us to be able to live environmentally friendly. Breaking them raises important questions at its head: ownership and our environment. One of our proposals, that the government should take measures to simplify and shorten the duration of proceedings, is supported by the committee, and I call for this proposal to be approved. The fact that we want to review this process is not about making it easier to obtain permits, nor about making investigations worse. On the contrary, the process should be clearer. Long processes are costly for both landowners and industry. The permits were handled in different places, sometimes with poor local knowledge. We believe that one must take a holistic approach in order to assess how the soil is best used and set mineral mining against, for example, cultivation. S, L, V and MP want to wait. The rest of us want to see something happen. We need to move fast. There is an assignment that was reported to the government in 2018, but without concrete proposals. We want the government to show greater momentum. All the emails received in the last 24 hours indicate that the process is not optimal. They refer to incomplete application documents, 35-year processing times and that there are permits that do not include all costs. This is also illustrated in our other two exercises. We would welcome support for strengthened ownership and increased remuneration from the Center Party and the Liberals in particular. I would like to express my support for reservation No 2. It is a matter of reviewing whether waste costs can be included in the assessment of the breakworthiness of the deposit. I would also like to express my support for reservation No 6. It is a question of reviewing the landowner's rights as a creditor regarding compensation in the event of a mining company's bankruptcy and of setting up an investigation that strengthens ownership and provides a reasonable return to the landowner. The environmental perspective in mining is one of the major villains. Of course, waste management must always be included in the assessment of mining permits. Today, certain parts of the business are usually subject to authorisation. These costs, which may be significant, must be included from the outset. We believe that an announcement to the government calling not to forget or delay this issue should be made. Our second claim concerns the compensation of the landowner in the event of bankruptcy. The law says damage and intrusion will be compensated. But if there's no other partner, there's gonna be a problem. Where and how can you get help? According to the Constitution, property is secured except when urgent public interests stand in the way, mineral mining is one such. As interest in mineral extraction moves to more populous areas, conflict areas increase. Today, the landowner is replaced by three quarters of 2 per mil by the value of the mineral. The total compensation in 2017 was 9.1 million. It is not very much because the land can not be used for other purposes. The majority of the committee rejects this motion because they feel that the proposal lacks justification. The justification is clearly that we think the compensation is too low and should be increased.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1026	Madam President, I would like More than 10,000 years ago or more, when copper was found in the Near East and objects were made from it, it was probably not even really understood on the track. In fact, along with the taming of fire, the invention of the wheel and the art of cultivating our earth, the knowledge of refining the metals inherent in nature has been a foundation not only for the construction of our civilization but for the construction of all civilizations. Today we are debating mineral policy here in this House on Helgeandsholmen, which was laid to bear what was to become our central bank. We Members have travelled here by train, air and metro. We call with our mobile phones, write on our computers, and some Member may have a pacemaker, a hip implant, or an interest in sewing clothes with his sewing machine. None of this would have been possible if our ancestors had not discovered and refined the art of extracting minerals and metals. We have gone from manufacturing simple hunting and agricultural tools to sending rockets out of our own solar system and in particle accelerators examining the smallest components of the universe. We have gone from building boilers to using uranium's fissile properties. Today, doctors can send small cameras and tools into the body to widen our vessels in the heart with metal - reinforced tubes, so - called stents. In Sweden we were hardly the first to break or refine metals. In this respect, there are regions in the world in which there are thousands of years of head start. But in the wake of the arrival of industrialism in Sweden something happened, and Swedish mining industry became one of the keys to our industrial success. It can be said that Esaias Tegnér's winged strof – How Swedish steel bites – in fact largely proved to be a foundation for Swedish industry during the 20th century. And certainly the steel, which is made mainly of iron, is still to be regarded as one of our most important metals. But so is copper, silver, gold, aluminium, lead and zinc, to name a few. In line with new innovations and technological achievements, the properties of other metals and minerals have been discovered. Sometimes they have been a prerequisite for solving technical knots in order to make technical progress that we could only dream of in the past. Some of these metals and minerals exist, for which we shall be grateful, here in Sweden. That is important, Madam President, because the mining industry is not mobile but assumes that the mining takes place where the raw material is located and not where the availability of cheap labour is greatest. Here in Sweden, generations of workers have striven to get better conditions. It has been quite a long time since we were able to compete on the world market at low prices. Instead, we have been at the forefront of technology development, ranging from rational mining methods to the quality and characteristics of the end products themselves. We have everything from large well-known companies such as LKAB with its green pellets and machine manufacturers Sandvik and Epiroc, old Atlas Copco, to small companies like Gefa System AB in Gällivare specializing in more efficient control systems for mining ventilation. What do you mean, mining ventilation? you may think. In fact, Madam President, despite a high degree of electrification of the engine fleet in an underground mine, 50% of the consumption of electricity in an underground mine goes to the operation of the ventilation system. So there are great economic and environmental benefits to be reaped here. This highlights the fact that the mining industry is no longer about dirty men with headlamped helmets, but that the mining industry of today is essentially a modern and high-tech industry that employs about 17,000 people in Sweden. In addition, the mining and steel industry accounts for about 10% of our gross exports, and our mines serve as test beds for everything from vehicle and tyre manufacturers to the development of modern infrastructure by researchers such as 5G systems and self-propelled vehicles. But this is not a self-playing piano. A mine is not like a hut where you can plant new forest. When the bargain is broken, there are still years of afterwork. It goes without saying that in order not to stagnate as a modern technology nation, we must also break new deposits. Here it is unfortunately the case that in Sweden no new deposits have started to be broken in about ten years. The mine in Kaunisvaara is the exception. However, it is not tested according to the Environmental Code, but through a review of the Finnish-Swedish Borderälvskommissionen. If it is considered that only the exploration after a new mine can take up to 15 years and the process from the application of a processing concession to the fact that the first salvan is a multi-annual process, it is understood that this is a threat to Sweden's survival as a mining and industrial nation. New mines don't just come out of their noses when the old ones are empty. Madam President, I would like In this House we have representatives of parties expressing a very great scepticism about mines. Electric bicycles, electric cars, wind turbines, Iphones and high-speed trains must be provided. But the metals needed to realize this will rain like manna from the sky. If not, they should be broken as far away from the Swedish environmental movement as possible.When Norrbotten is not far enough away or the desired minerals are not there you look further away towards China, Russia or Africa where unscrupulous clan leaders exploit child workers in a way beyond anything that can be considered decent working conditions. I think that is not a little colonialist approach. We have the deposits here. We have the know-how. We have research and development, and we can make it more efficient and cleaner. Swedish environmental legislation is tough. It should continue to be, for it represents a competitive advantage in a world where more conscious consumers do not want to help put money in the pockets of oligarchs or warlords. But if we are to be on the track in the future and if we are to be able to extract all the minerals needed for the electric cars that the January parties are talking about, if we are to build all the thousands of wind turbines that the premature decommissioning of nuclear power forces us to and if we are to electrify roads and railways, the raw materials will actually have to get out of the hill. Then it becomes problematic if the industry collectively feels that the legislation is unclear, unpredictable and arbitrary. If Sweden is to continue to wear the leadership shirt, at least in a European context, we need to simplify the authorisation process so that it becomes faster, simpler and clearer. We therefore believe that the mining companies should have a single instance to turn to, a so-called one stop shop procedure. This is a bit of the crux of the matter in today's debate. As far as I have been able to read in the motions on which the report is based, no party in this House has advocated a relaxation of the environmental code, but several parties are critical of the process itself. If you were to build a house and the choice was between two different municipalities to build it in – would you choose to build it in a municipality in which you were offered a quick, simple and easy-to-understand building permit process, or would you knock down the bo stakes in a municipality where the process was difficult to penetrate and perceived as arbitrary and where you were balled between different bodies that gave conflicting answers? That is about where the mining industry is today, and it is at a rapid pace on its way to knocking down the boposts in other places. In addition, if we spice this up with the abrupt removal of subsidised mining diesel so that much of the innovation space needed for the mining industry for its green transformation disappears, we understand what potentially harmful soup we have boiled for one of our basic nutrients. This soup threatens Swedish jobs in all sectors, from academia to workshop floors, and this cannot be allowed to continue. Finally, Madam President, I would like to make it clear that the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but for time-winning, I only call for reservation 10.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1049	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendments Nos 1 and 6. In the last few days, I have, surely just like many of you, received some emails with worried questions from people in different parts of the country, not least in Skåne. The reason is that the committee wants to shorten and simplify the licensing processes regarding mining issues. Therefore, it is important to be able to really clarify what this announcement means. This does not mean that we want to simplify and water down the state of environmental testing. This does not mean that we plan to open new mines in Skåne. What we want is to simplify the process itself when the process has gone so far that a company has sent in a permit application to establish a mine. For example, the application for an environmental review permit may be submitted digitally instead of on paper. It may also be a case of this process, which is now spread across several authorities, being brought together by a single one. However, the committee has not pointed out which authority should be given this responsibility, but it will have to look at it in the next step. It is therefore a question of the fact that once a company has decided after a survey and a exploration that they want to break minerals, the decision on a yes or a no to mining establishment should not be delayed. The Center Party believes that it is not reasonable for a landowner to have to live in ignorance for many years if a mineral break is to open on his land. To be honest, it is also not reasonable for large investments to be tied up for years without knowing whether there will be a yes or no in the competent decision-making body. I think it is important in this context to point out that the reservation that S, MP, L and V have left in this part is not about the fact that they think the announcement is wrong in substance. Instead, these parties believe that the government is already working on the issue and that an announcement is therefore unnecessary. However, the Center Party sees that it is important, not least for the landowner, that the authorities do not drag the decisions in the long way – hence this committee initiative. Madam President, I would like As I said, the announcement is not about reducing environmental requirements. Rather, in the January agreement concluded by the Center Party and the Liberals with the government parties, there is a point about strengthening mineral legislation in terms of environmental impact. Paragraph 33 of the January Agreement states that exploration and re-exploitation of coal, oil and fossil gas shall be prohibited in the same way as has already been done with uranium. It also says that the legislation should be tightened up on the extraction of minerals from alums. This work will begin shortly, and if you have thoughts or views on what this tightening up might look like, you are welcome to contact us in the Center Party. In Sweden we have one of the world's toughest environmental legislations, and that is good. We must have activities that are compatible with the environment as far as possible. Madam President, I would like In many parts of the country, not least in Skåne, there is great concern about the weak position of landowners in connection with exploration permits and exploration, i.e. the process in which companies investigate which minerals are present in the soil. I and the Center Party believe that ownership is a fundamental foundation of a functioning democracy, and we can understand the frustration of landowners. It is clear to us that property rights need to be strengthened in certain sectors, including in the field of mineral policy. Those of you who have followed my commitment and that of the party to forestry know that ownership is fundamental. It's a matter of heart for us, not least for me. I will be personal and say that ownership is probably the issue that has touched on me most of all political issues over the years. I also think it's the one I've put most soul and heart into. It's not surprising, because this affects people. I've met quite a few people over the last few years who have been caught in the grips of how their property rights have been eroded. I met Lennart from Sala. He and his family have owned their forest for 400 years. He had promised his grandmother and grandfather that he would take care of the farm and that he would take care of the forest and not sell it. But one day the County Administrative Board wanted Lennart to set aside a third of his land for nature reserves. Lennart didn't want that, but eventually he was forced to accept it. He has felt incredibly bad both mentally and physically. In the north there are Hanna and Albin. In 2012, they bought mountain forests. They made their life's investment and borrowed money from the bank. But when they were going to fell, they were turned down by the Forests Board, who said: This is not on-going land use. It was something completely new in Swedish forestry policy. For Hanna and Albin, this meant that they were not allowed to cut the trees, nor were they compensated by the State. But the bank is supposed to have the money it has lent back anyway. Now Hanna and Albin have sued the state, and I hope you are right! In the same way, it is of course for landowners in Skåne, for example, who wonder why companies should explore their land without receiving compensation. Nor do they know how long the company will be there, and they feel a fear of what will come. Will it be a mine? If so, what happens to my land – the one that generations before me have used or that you have bought for expensive money yourself? Madam President, I would like That's why the Center Party is pushing for the landowner's position to be strengthened. With this in mind, we support reservation 6, which calls on the government to set up an investigation with the aim of strengthening the ownership of the mining industry and providing the landowners with a reasonable return, as well as strengthening the landowner's rights as a creditor in relation to the landowner's share of the mineralisation in the event of bankruptcy. Unfortunately, we have not got a majority in committee to support this proposal. I'm sorry about that. The Center Party is also pushing to strengthen the role of landowners in exploration permits and exploration. We will come back with more thoughts in this area during the year. I hope this can perhaps calm some of the unrest in Skåne and around the country. Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to mention a few words on recycling in the area we are dealing with today. An important part of environmental work is the recycling of metals, something we are very good at in Sweden. For example, in 2013 the world's largest recycling plant for electronic scrap was opened in my home county of Västerbotten, more specifically in Skellefteå. A total of 120 000 tonnes are recycled each year, and the material consists, among other things, of computer and mobile phone circuit boards purchased mainly from Europe. Finally, I would like to address all those concerned by land issues: I just want to say to you that we in the Center Party stand up for ownership and will do everything we can to strengthen it.
i-7UJeyfeCbN98GxwP5umeRu	( THIRD VICE TALMANN: Can Helena Lindahl clarify whether it was really a favor to reservation 1 and reservation 6? )
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1068	Madam President, I would like That's too bad. I was just about to thank Helena Lindahl and the Center Party for your wise support for our reservation. Helena Lindahl speaks very well about the importance of mines, environmental considerations and ownership. I broadly agree with everything Helena Lindahl says. However, I think she has misunderstood one thing. This is not a committee initiative. What the committee proposes in its report is that it should be addressed to the government, and it reserves the right of the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Left Party and the Liberals to do so. I had hoped to welcome also the Center Party to this, but there fell my line a little. However, Helena may still want to make one thing clear for the audience. When she talks so well about environmental considerations and still wants shorter permit processes, how does Helena Lindahl think it will be solved?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1071	Madam President, I would like I think it's really important. That is something that we and the Social Democrats, I believe, have wanted for quite a long time. Permit processes are a cause for concern, not least for the landowner who for many years is not told: What happens to my land? Is there going to be anything here? Will I possibly be able to sell? There are families in Skåne, for example, who have invested in houses and land, and I fully understand their concerns when you do not know what will happen after a exploration. Of course it will be difficult to sell that farm if you want to do it. Therefore, I think it is very important from a landowner's perspective to bring this about, not least for the mining industry itself. It costs huge money to invest in this type of business. I think that everyone will benefit if, at an earlier stage, it is possible to know whether it will be a yes or a no. The difference between us is that you say that this is being investigated in the Government Office. That's what they say as a government party. The opposition is usually in a bit of a hurry. We think that this has been a long way off for quite some time now, and we do not think it is reasonable for landowners to wait so much longer either.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1075	Madam President, I would like We are in complete agreement that things should not be pulled in the long way unnecessarily, nor permit granting. At the moment, we have some fifteen processes that might make investment go unsettled or, even worse, end up in other parts of the world that have much worse environmental legislation. None of us want to. I therefore propose that the Center Party work together to find ways of solving this, so that we have a predictable and effective as well as very wise and sustainable permit granting.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1076	Madam President, I would like I do not think any of the members of the committee in this House have anything against it, quite the contrary. The more we can achieve this, the better for all concerned – not least for the landowners themselves.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1077	Madam President, I would like Mineral policy is the subject of debate this time. I shall begin with the announcement that the committee proposes to the government. Of course, it may seem that this is appropriate and that it should have come a long time ago – right? I can agree that when permit processes for mines can be delayed for decades, something is not working satisfactorily. However, it does not take longer in Sweden to obtain a permit than in the rest of the Western world. When it comes to establishment as a mine, it is extremely important that all aspects of the environment, other industries, social change, referrals and so on are dealt with seriously and thoroughly. As in the announcement, shortening and simplifying the authorisation process is a little bit to accommodate only one party. Believe me, I know what mines have meant to our country and our country. It is not supposed to be news to anyone in this House that I am probably the most benevolent mining advocate in my party. At the same time, we must have a process for new mines that takes a holistic approach to the consequences of mining establishment. We may have to say no to some mining projects at a very early stage. Today it feels like laws and regulations are expected to change every time a new majority enters the Riksdag. The left-wing view is that anyone who opens or for that matter operates a mine should be a long-term owner with a social commitment that is noticeable both in the location of the mine, but also in the villages around, and in the community in general, so that there will be positive spinoff effects and not only fly-in/ fly-out workers commuting to the mine and living in a caravan outside the gate. It is ongoing in the Government Office, which many have discussed, a preparation of the investigation's proposals for measures to possibly shorten the processing times for mining establishments, but for this reason do not blur environmental aspects. That is why, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Left Party, the announcement is unnecessary. Of course, we support the reservation. Madam President, I would like The report also deals with parts other than permit processes. I note that the government parties, together with some other parties, have stated that a ban on the exploration and exploitation of coal, oil and fossil gas should be introduced. I welcome such a ban and I am anxious that it should be put in place as soon as possible. I also note that the Government intends to tighten the regulatory framework for extracting minerals from alums. I believe that the mining of aluminums has such serious consequences for the environment that a national ban on such mining should be introduced. In order for Sweden to maintain a consistent and active line on climate and environmental issues, the Riksdag should therefore, in my opinion, in an announcement call on the Government to introduce a national ban on the extraction of fossil energy and on the mining of alums. Madam President, I would like In this respect, it is excellent for me to support our reservation 7 in the report, which deals with aluminum and mining. Of course, I support all the reservations that we have, but as a listening Member of Parliament who is listening to our gentlemen's agreement, I only highlight the reservation that I have just related to. There could be much to say about good and less good examples of mines that have existed in our country. But one thing we as decision-makers must have courage to say or take a position on, and it is when there are applications for mining establishments that we currently see as problematic for one reason or another. In fact, we must be able to say, unfortunately, as things stand today, you will not be granted permission to open a mine here. In the same way, in other situations we will grant permission but then require sufficient resources from the company so that future decommissioning will also benefit the locality. With this, I would like to send out a clear call. What is it that says that our generation should be able to rape resources that are actually finite? At some point it may be good for our future generations to know of a resource that we stopped the establishment of for their benefit. I know how much a mining establishment affects a society both for good and for evil. In some respects, of course, it has a negative impact on other industries, the environment and so on. But that many more people suddenly get jobs at home and that confidence in the future lifts up the whole society, I have experienced and followed at close range. What we could still wish for is, of course, that some part of the value of natural resources remained in the region. Not only would we have a little more growth, but the acceptance of the mine would also be much wider and larger.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1092	Madam President, I would like Firstly, I would like to support the joint reservation we have with the Moderates and the Center Party, reservation 6, and reservation 9 which we support. Mineral policy has quite understandably involved many people around the country. It shows that we live in a country where we care about our nature, our land, our food production and our common good. Dialogue is important, and I very much value all the commitment and knowledge in this regard. For us Christian Democrats, ownership is fundamental in our common society. Ownership is a necessary prerequisite for economic growth and for the creation of resources for what is of great importance to us. At the same time, ownership is more than just material. It may be that people for generations are linked together in a common place or a sense of creating something for future generations. In the long run, such a focus is crucial for strong growth and sustainable high employment. Ownership rights are strong in Sweden but can be further strengthened in some sectors. We believe that this must be done in the field of mineral policy. We therefore call on the government to set up an investigation aimed, firstly, at strengthening ownership rights in the mining industry and at providing the landowners with a reasonable return and, secondly, at strengthening the landowner's rights in relation to the landowner's share of mineralisation in the event of bankruptcy. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats want to highlight some parts of this. One concerns the requirements for the design of boreholes and the follow-up to the need to tighten their recovery. It is common for such holes to be abandoned without a perfectly acceptable remediation. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. The second is that mineralisation should be reviewed so that it also takes into account the need for financing for soil and water remediation measures after mining. The decontamination is often expensive and cannot always be financed by the responsible operator. The requirements for financial guarantees that have been imposed as a condition for obtaining processing permits are often insufficient, and ultimately it is the taxpayer who may have to bear the cost. I can also note that the government has examined whether there are any measures that can more effectively ensure than is currently the case that there are sufficient guarantees for post-treatment and restoration in mining operations. Unfortunately, however, no concrete proposals to tackle the problems have been put forward. Madam President, I would like At the same time as there are no clarifications and stronger ownership rights in mineral policy, we must also not forget that the mining industry is an important industry for Sweden. It creates jobs and revenues for the public purse and can mean valuable development, not least for our sparsely populated areas. A mineral policy with associated mining industry policy is also an important element for us to meet the climate goals. We will need more electricity in the future. We will need batteries and hence these deposits in order for the transport sector and industry to be able to reduce their emissions. That is not the whole solution, but it is part of a large whole. Hence, we need a mining industry where mineral extraction enables us to achieve our common goals. To strengthen the Swedish mining and minerals industry, we now want to see simpler, shorter and more predictable permit processes for mining operations. A lot of people have been into it earlier today. These processes must be designed in such a way that they do not unduly hinder, delay or increase investments that modernise activities and create jobs and growth. Unfortunately, the licensing processes are now slow and lengthy and also spread across several different authorities. It has also been debated earlier here today. For us, it is obvious that Sweden's mineral resources are used in a sustainable way and based on social and cultural dimensions so that natural and cultural environments are preserved and can be developed. A competitive mining industry also creates jobs and thus also the conditions for living rural areas. It is not only about jobs in the mine itself, but also about what is happening around it in terms of housing, hotels, shops, expanded infrastructure and so on. Today there are examples where mining companies have had to wait unhemultically long to start up despite the fact that the Bergsstatet has said yes, and it is not just one, two or three years one has waited. The government will give the go-ahead when the Mountain State has said yes, and then we need to review the permit processes. It is not a question of making more decisions or of making more decisions so that people who are affected can somehow feel run over. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to emphasise what is at the basis of the reservation that we Christian Democrats are calling for approval of the fact that we want to introduce a national ban on fracturing, that is, a method of extracting fossil fuels such as natural gas and shale oil. In many countries shale gas is extracted from aluminum shale. It is a highly environmentally harmful method in which water and chemicals create cracks in the soil and parts of the bedrock burst, resulting in hazardous emissions. However, it can be concluded that the conditions for extracting shale gas in Sweden are limited because the aluminum shale found in different parts of the country does not achieve the quality required for it to be possible to extract shale gas to any significant extent. Nevertheless, we believe that due to the harmful effects of shale gas extraction by means of fracturing, a national ban should be introduced.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1106	Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of Europe's most important mining countries. Together with the steel and metalworking plants, the mining industry forms a large part of the Swedish export industry. Mining is also Sweden's oldest industrial activity. In Hornkullen's silver mine in Värmland Nykroppa, silver ore was mined even before the Black Death, i.e. in the middle of the 1300s. Just a few weeks ago I visited Gällivare and Boliden Aitik. I was impressed by the mine itself, how it has grown and how the company has seen new opportunities. If you also like big machines, you are also impressed to say the least by the company's fleet of vehicles. I can warmly recommend that more Members make a visit. It's interesting, not just because they have big machines, because it's an open pit and because they've grown. What is most interesting and most impressive is that the company has taken its own initiative to electrify even more. The company has taken major steps towards sustainable and climate-smart business. Boliden Aitik has electrified parts of its operations as the first mining company. And that has been done in an Arctic climate. Mining is an important part of Swedish industry and a strong export success. Sweden's mining industry is of great importance for the mineral supply in Europe. The Swedish mining industry is well ahead internationally with its relatively climate-smart production. Emissions to air and water have gradually fallen. Today, the Swedish mining industry is one of the most climate efficient in the world. However, there is still one journey to be made. In Norrland, the mining industry also creates confidence in the future. More jobs and local growth are created in towns that have had a hard time before. A job in the mining industry is not just a job. Mining is one of the industries that generates the most additional jobs in the base business. Mining is also a key factor in electrifying society. For example, copper is needed if we are to electrify and reach climate targets. Copper is mined in seven Swedish mines. Around 10% of the copper produced in the EU comes from Sweden. Most of the ore comes from Västerbotten, although a small part also comes from mines in Bergslagen and Lapland. Imagine how amazing it would be if Swedish copper were to be part of electrifying society so that we achieve the climate goals! As I said, mining is important for future confidence as well as more jobs, local growth and Swedish exports. We shall pursue a policy that will enable growth. At the same time, it is important to take into account other interests, such as the environment, other industries and nature. Of course, we support our reservation No 1.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1115	Madam President, I would like I request the approval of reservation 1 and the rejection of other reservations. After many years of leeway for rogue players in the mineral industry, we are now beginning to tighten up the legislation on a point-by-point basis. It required the Green Party to be part of the ruling power in order for it to happen. Firstly, we finally have a ban on uranium mining in this country. There are many reasons for that. First of all, the future is renewable. Then we should not have uranium and nuclear power. Breaking uranium is also an incredibly dangerous process. And we must protect the people who live in areas threatened by such exploitation. Secondly, we are now moving on to further tighten the legislation on alums. We know it's about the same kind of dangerous accent. Several parts of the country are now threatened by the exploration of alums. We also know the disastrous consequences of aluminum mining for the local environment and nature. We have reached an agreement within the January agreement to tighten up that legislation as well. Thirdly, we are now banning all mining of fossil sources. I must take an example of the fact that, even before the legislative process itself is under way, this has had a clear effect. The company Draupner Energy is now withdrawing its application to drill for oil on Gotland. They had planned to start drilling for oil on a large part of Gotland. Now they withdraw their application with a specific reference to the Green Party's demand to ban it. That was the third example of tightening up. Fourthly, we are now putting an end to the curing of the mining industry. For many years, it has received large subsidies in the form of reductions in taxes on diesel. That kind of curling of the heavy industry is the Green Party not interested in contributing to. Now we are phasing out the fossil subsidies. So far in my speech, it has sounded like the issue is quite simple. Of course it is not. There are big and difficult balances. How to deal with mineral issues is a balancing process. An important issue is the need for innovation metals and minerals for the transition to a renewable society. There is also a great need for other metals and minerals for, for example, the expansion of railways and the like. Therefore, it is important that the government now takes stock of where there are appropriate areas in Sweden for mining of innovation metals. But let me be very clear that the environment and nature must be very high on the agenda when making the assessment. Madam President, I would like Let me get into permit processes and environmental trials. It may need to be reviewed. But then, of course, let the environment have a clearer voice. One should not do as the Center Party now does along with former alliance colleagues and the Swedish Democrats. They force the government, through a napkin sketch, into uncertainty on these issues, while at the same time there is serious investigation work at the Government Office. Let's take it seriously! Let us not rush through such a proposal! Instead, it risks undermining the environmental integrity of legislation. Finally, I would like to address everyone who has e-mailed in the last few days. The Green Party has, as I said, pushed through four proposals in government cooperation and cooperation with C and L. It is we who protect the environment in the legislation. Step by step we increase the voice of the environment and nature in legislation. And we will continue to do so.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1125	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Mr Lorentz. I reacted to one thing. You say the mining companies have curls and refer to the subsidy on mining diesel. What is your picture of predictability? I think that everyone in this House thinks that companies should have rules that they know what they look like and what they look like. Do you think it's fair to a mining company that has just opened up to remove the subsidies, which means 25 million? It is a mine that would otherwise have become a remediation object for the state with a cost of 250 million. Now, instead, they have gone in and opened a mine. Is it to curl those who have opened the mine to remove, with six months' notice, a subsidy whose loss means 25 million to the company? I'm reacting in your casual way. I understand; the Left Party also wants to phase out harmful subsidies. But removing them on a board is not fair to the mining companies. You can think what you want about them. But regardless of the industry, there should be rules that do not change overnight or that involve changes with such large sums. Why do you not want to phase out subsidies in three phases instead? That is what we have proposed in our budget. What predictability do you think a company should have when it comes to the rules in a country? Are they supposed to be able to change in six months, which means 25 million for a company?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1129	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birger Lahti, for the question. Initially, of course, my picture is that the climate must be first. Once that conclusion has been reached, the measures must then be weighed on different scales and the effects of taxes and legislation determined. As far as the mining industry is concerned, it is clear that it is currently under pressure. We are talking about huge profits for these companies. I said almost 40,000 billion. In any case, we are talking about huge profits. To complain then, as the companies have done, about having to pay the full price for what they dirty down is completely backwards, I think. I am ready to have a debate every day on whether climate policy can be made fairer so that it does not affect those who have little money in their pockets but affects those who have a lot of money, those who live in big cities and so on. In this case, however, it is quite obvious that these for etags are making incredibly large profits and should be able to pay a small additional part for what they are shitting down. I find it very difficult to see that it would not be a curling situation if the state continues to donate money to these companies as before. I'm not willing to jeopardize this.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1134	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Lorentz, for your answer. But you didn't answer what I asked you about. What foresight do you think is reasonable for a company when rules change? This is about six months. I took an example from the mine that I know best. It's a mine that just opened. I know the mines are going well today. If they had something on the shelf to replace the diesel, I would understand that. There are good examples. Earlier in the debate, Mr Boliden was mentioned in Aitik. They have an oblique course where they run with electricity. It's great that this is going on. I began by saying that I too think that harmful subsidies should be phased out. But was it so important to do it on a board and call it curling? They could have been phased out so that companies also feel that they are on the track and that the government sees and understands them. To do so on a board I think is wrong with the newly opened mine. What is your picture of forward planning? When is a company supposed to know that rules are changing? Do you think it is fair to say six months in advance that, as in this case, subsidies are removed? The big companies are gonna fix this. But if this mine falls down, you have to clean it up. You think you clean up that mine with electric trucks? No, it will be a fossil emission even if you have to close a mine.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1140	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birger Lahti, for the line shift! First of all, I would like to say that I myself have been to Gällivare and visited the open-pit crime. It is exciting to see that much is happening now. They're fully electrifying. This is what we want. That, of course, is the purpose of taxation. As for the question of how far the perspective should be and what one as a company can expect is my answer that with the Green Party in government one cannot expect to be curled. We will not help to curl companies that continue to emit a lot of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. That is something that we want completely away from. Of course it will be a transition period. A tax is introduced, and then it has an effect over a long period of time. But you can't expect to get paid from the state to continue doing climate-damaging activities as long as the Green Party is in the government. I can promise you that. I'm standing my ground. A company that makes huge profits can get a small adjusted tax rate on things that are about destroying our planet. I do not think it is reasonable to complain and trap crocodile tears about this. Rather, I am quick to say that they have been curled so far, and now that is enough.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1145	Madam President, I would like Northern Sweden has a unique, rich and internationally attractive bedrock to explore. We have interesting mineral resources, a geological know-how, an internationally competitive research environment, a strong value chain with world-leading technology and mining equipment companies, producing mines, service companies and subcontractors, giving women and men around our country jobs and revenues to the treasury. If we are to maintain and preferably develop our advanced position as a mining nation, we must safeguard and nurture the expertise and know-how that still exists throughout the geological cluster from mapping to aftermarket. Unfortunately, however, the conditions for the licensing of mining operations have started to limp in recent years. Let me therefore again point out today, Madam President, the lowest hanging fruit and the measure that would most quickly eliminate uncertainty and lack of predictability in the mining trial process. It is about the government starting to decide on the processing concessions that have been on the government's table for several years. The absolute majority of cases concern Norrbotten. Madam President, I would like The question of what is the most appropriate use of soil and water areas is essentially political. It's difficult and sensitive. Conflicts about how land and water should be used exist in every society and in every time. When balancing between different national interests is deemed to be incompatible with each other, authorities and courts and, in the case of the Minerals Act, the government will ultimately apply the environmental code's rules on competing land use claims. Despite this, the government continues to leave the industry, the property owners concerned, rightholders, Sami villages and rural areas in uncertainty year after year and pending decisions. In addition to difficult balance of interests, there are also important legal issues in principle that need to be resolved. Any review of government decisions by the Supreme Administrative Court will further extend the duration of proceedings. The government's slow management creates uncertainty about the rules of the game and hampers investment. This, together with other factors, weakens Sweden's attractiveness as a prospecting and mining country. Madam President, I would like With a respectful dialogue on each other's need for raison d'être combined with an effective permit testing with reduced uncertainty, increased predictability and better legal certainty, I am absolutely convinced that we can find good solutions for anyone who wants to live, live and run businesses throughout our country. The quickest measure the government can take to increase predictability is to start deciding matters about processing concessions as soon as possible.
i-WJg8wpBGkMXuC2dStTHcY9	Madam President, I would like We are now debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' motion for a resolution on electricity market issues. I would like to begin by calling for reservation 1 under paragraph 1 Objectives of security of supply and reservation 2 under paragraph 2 Safety of Swedish electricity networks. These are some of our hottest political issues. Energy and getting the energy we need when we need it is something on which we all depend. Good access to energy is important for Swedish society, for Swedish industry, for Swedish companies, for the entire public sector and for all of us as individuals. The fact that we can both produce and safely distribute electrical energy is one of the success factors for Sweden as both an industrial and welfare state. Access to energy has been the basis for developing our industry and prosperity. If you travel through Sweden you can still see the hydropower plants that operated our industry and the mills that drove the more industrial grinding of our flour. The fact that we also had access to forest to burn our blast furnaces has been crucial for us. In the past, however, energy-intensive activities had to be adapted to where the supply of energy existed. They moved their foundries and blast furnaces to where the forest and water were available, and it was on the plain that they could grind flour. Madam President, I would like Now we live in an urbanised society where we expect the energy to be where we want it. We expect to be able to live in places that do not produce energy and yet have both hot water and heat at home. In addition, there should be jobs and companies where we want to live. This is not entirely unproblematic. Energy has become a resource we can no longer confidently trust that it exists when we need it. This is because our production of energy has an increased share of solar and wind energy, which is not a cold and dark day in winter when it does not blow. These days, only hydropower and nuclear power can deliver enough energy – unless one chooses to use oil as an energy source. We also need more and more electricity. Madam President, I would like Energy supply depends entirely on the fact that there are also good distribution networks, which is not a matter of course at present. The Swedish electricity network has challenges. Sweden is an elongated country with a large distance and relatively small population. In addition, the Swedish distribution network is one of the oldest in the world, with a great need for both capacity expansion and rehabilitation. Nor do we want the costs of energy to rise significantly. Our low price of energy is part of our competitiveness. This shows the different price areas, four of which Sweden is divided into. As prices rise in Skåne it is painful. The fact that we have reached broad political agreement on energy policy through the Energy Agreement has so far been a good thing. The gaming rules in the Swedish electricity market need to be clear and long-term – i.e. based on the fact that many of the investments you need to make are costly and need long-term financing. However, as in other areas, such as defence, the Energy Agreement needs to be regularly updated as the challenges change. If we are to be able to tackle climate change quickly and responsibly, energy policy is crucial. Madam President, I would like The major switch to electrical energy instead of fossil energy is challenging. Furthermore, we will need nuclear power for a longer time than we previously thought in order to meet the climate challenge responsibly. However, Swedish society and the Swedish people are ambitious. We're changing at a fast pace, and then the electricity market has to keep up. New models for saving energy and how individuals can produce their own energy through solar cells, among other things. This places completely new demands on better networks, both locally and centrally. Madam President, I would like We Moderates take the delivery problems and impact problems reported in the southern part of the country but also in Central Sweden and Stockholm very seriously. We see that the reserve capacity that exists will need to be used, which is neither climate smart nor reliable. This should be announced to the government. That is why we support the intention to introduce a target for security of supply. Just as important as the long-term rules for the energy sector, it is that our industries are sure that energy will get there where it is needed. Madam President, I would like We Moderates take the security challenges that exist to secure Swedish distribution networks seriously. The Swedish electricity network must be secured and protected against accidents and failures. The Swedish electricity network must also be better secured against attacks and terrorism. We do not want to hear the government repeat what has been said in previous safety failures such as those at the Swedish Transport Agency and Swedish Power Networks – that naïvely, we have been. We now call on the government, through our reservation, to address security issues on time. Explanations of naivety are not good enough at government level. The Swedish people deserve better.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1168	Madam President, I would like In the context of energy policy, issues of power shortages and capacity shortages are now discussed to a greater extent – with very good reasons. During the last decade, the margin in the Swedish power balance has been completely eroded, which has greatly increased the vulnerability of the Swedish electricity supply. This is something that SD repeatedly lifted up in this House. There has been no need to have a great deal of technical knowledge to see this development, as it has moved at a fairly rapid pace from a very robust margin in the power system to a non-existent one. During the past winter we slipped down on negative values in the power balance for the first time. We must be glad that the past winter was quite mild. At the same time, we can see worrying signs of insufficient availability of capacity and power as the balance mass in the power system decreases with reduced power quality as a result for Swedish industry. Along with this disturbing starting point, we have further closures ahead of us. When Ringhals 1 and 2 are closed, you have to go back to the 1970s to find the corresponding power shortage in the power system. As if this were not enough, Madam President, the government, together with the support parties the Center Party and the Liberals, has put forward a proposal for shock-raised taxes on cogeneration in Sweden. It has now begun to have an effect, unfortunately in a negative sense. Despite opposition from us Swedish democrats and warnings from consultation bodies for consequences such as power shortage in Malmö and Stockholm and other major cities, the government has chosen to proceed with the proposal. The aim is now to introduce increased energy and carbon tax on fuels. The increased taxes will force cogeneration plants to close prematurely. This leads to a reduction in power generation, which in turn blocks larger new connections to the electricity grid in our major cities as local bottlenecks result when transmission capacity shortages occur locally. This will have the effect of slowing down urban development opportunities due to a lack of capacity in the electricity grids. The most serious is the situation in our growing big cities, where this can prevent the establishment of new residential areas and businesses and further electrification of public transport. Instead of, for example, listening to the expertise of the energy industry on this issue, the Environment Council of the Green Party defended the Government's proposal that a shortage of electricity is a problem that only occurs when it gets cold. It is clear that there is a complete lack of understanding of how the power system works when the Green Party claims that there is no danger because there is only a risk of a shortage of electricity on the coldest days. Then the need is greatest. With this kind of reasoning, there is much else in society that is not a problem either. At the same time, there is now a great deal of movement among the parties that have concluded the energy agreement. In some places we are beginning to realise the need for planned power generation and where the existing energy agreement leads us. When the Energy Commission issued its final report, the Swedish Democrats were all alone in pushing and lifting a target for security of supply. Less than a year ago, Parliament last voted on a target for security of supply. On this occasion too, the Swedish Democrats were entirely alone in supporting and pushing the issue. All the other parties in this House voted against investigating the introduction of such a target. What is positive is that during the past year the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Liberals have joined a proposal put forward by the Swedish Democrats for Sweden to investigate the introduction of a goal for security of supply. That is most gratifying. Sweden really needs a security of supply target, as the margin has been worn down for a long time as a result of a de facto energy policy. Madam President, I would like Just over a year ago, the Riksdag also decided on new energy policy objectives for Sweden. One of the new targets was that Swedish electricity production should be 100 per cent renewable by 2040. The Swedish Democrats considered the proposal to be unhappily worded at the time. Environmental work in general has its focus on fossil-free, not on narrowing further among the fossil-free alternatives. In addition, nuclear power, which is the main planned source of power generation in our system, is excluded. Instead, the Swedish Democrats believe that a goal for Swedish electricity production to be completely fossil-free would be the natural way forward in order to clearly indicate that all fossil-free alternatives should be welcome in the future. But it remains the case that only the Swedish Democrats and the Liberals pursue such an objective and have a reservation on this in the report. The Moderates and Christian Democrats actively oppose the Riksdag, even if they try to send out signals in other contexts. This is a pity, and I would of course welcome the idea of thinking better and being prepared to join such a goal. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to endorse Amendment No 5 in the report. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, we are content to ask for its approval.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1183	Madam President, I would like Electricity market issues tend to lead a rather evasive life, but recently they have actually come high up on the agenda. This is welcome, I think, and it is a welcome discussion for those who are able to keep the concepts separate and see solutions instead of getting stuck in old tracks and planned, political planning of power plants. It is an electricity market and conditions and regulations in the transformation system that we are going to debate. It is a bit unclear for whose money and on whose behalf it would happen when, at political level, you want to build new power plants. This is also a type of market that we do not see much of in Sweden but rather in the old Soviet Union or in China, where the state points with the whole hand. It is this type of electricity market issue that has been the subject of debate lately, and that is unfortunate. Falling back on the nuclear issue and talking about stable and secure energy is an excuse for those who are unable to give real answers to the real problems that exist. I have called in this House for the views of the experts. We can ask how Nord Pool, which operates the electricity market, sees it. We can ask the Energy Agency. In their scenario, which they released this week, they show that no subsidies are needed. This can be solved by the market on its own. They even propose that we remove existing subsidies, which we are now also phasing out. But then political courage is needed, and that is perhaps what is missing from some parties. Prices must vary. This is what creates the conditions for new business models and market solutions. Allowing the market to govern also frees up the potential for innovation and technology development. We need to solve a number of problems. Swedish power grid, SVK, started not so many hours ago to run the Southwest link on test. It is the link that connects price range 3 in central Sweden with price range 4 in southern Sweden. This is one way to deal with one of the major bottlenecks in Energisverige. The south-west link is four years late, not primarily due to the permit process but due to technical problems. It is precisely bottlenecks in the transfer that are one of the major problems we have. It is not solved by large power plants; it is solved by more transmission and local production. And then we need to get to grips with the permit processes. This is not so sexy to talk about, and that's why it's not on any election posters either. But that is where the problems lie. When it takes a decade to go from plane to execution we have a real problem in Sweden. This is the problem we have to deal with. We need to shorten the permit process. One of the proposals made by the Center Party for this is to introduce a green trail into the permit process. The permits, concerning both power lines and other things, that are environmental improvement should have a fast track so that you arrive significantly earlier. This is what we have brought with us the Alliance and, in fact, we have also received an announcement on in Parliament's committees. That is the problem. When we talk about the power problem in Sweden – in Stockholm, Malmö, Uppsala, Västerås and a lot of other cities – it is local transmission that is the problem, if you do not want to build nuclear power plants centrally in the cities. It would also have been a solution, but I have still not heard anyone talk about it. Now that we are talking about the transfer issues, it is also worrying that the new leadership to Gotland has been stopped. It is absolutely vital, not only for Gotland's energy security but also for energy exports and for the heavy industry's ability to switch to renewable and fossil-free. That's where the Center Party has been working for a long time. The election movement also heard voices from other parties that raised these issues. Since then, it has been completely silent on these issues from the other parties. But there are also more solutions. We need to work much more with flexibility. We need to get in more people who work with hourly measurement and hourly billing, and then prices have to be variable. Then we can't have a static electricity tax that allows you, even if the price is zero, to get a high cost for both the grid and the tax. That's how we make the business model work. This is also how the whole structure for steel without carbon looks like. They depend on sometimes low prices – that we have a surplus of electricity that they can use. They are not interested in paying expensive, stable prices, which is the effect on the other side. We cannot subsidise expensive electricity, as Britain, for example, does when you pay over SEK 1 per kilowatt hour for new electricity. Then our competitiveness or conversion will not work, especially when there are alternatives that are cheaper. There are simply other, new solutions. It's so easy to fall back into old ruts when you can't take the discussion. A discussion that also needs to be taken, not least with the electricity grid companies, is about the possibility of establishing micro-networks – to be able to share with the neighbour their overproduction if you produce extra, or to get a better safety thinking and be able to have a backup in the area where you live if the whole thing starts to fall. This is important in crisis situations. To conclude, Madam President, let the energy market be a market! If there is a deficit in system services, frequency regulation and other – procure from that deficit! Don't stand and talk about how we plan economically determine exactly how things are to be solved, because we politicians don't know that best. The market knows that best. It can solve it. We have also seen how new things, such as battery bearings in Australia, can handle system services cheaper and better than existing power plants, for example. It is not reasonable for subsidies and payments to be made blindly. Those who lose out are Swedish consumers and Swedish industry. Those around us will laugh joyfully at how we chance away a good and cheap energy system. The Center Party doesn't want to pay that price. We stand up for Swedish competitiveness, Swedish industry and Swedish households. That is the important thing in this context. I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of Amendment No 6.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1200	Madam President, I would like Rickard Nordin points out that the market should handle this on its own. This is a good intention and definitely something that the Moderates generally support, but that's not how it works. Politicians are in and out of these rules. An impact tax has been imposed on heating plants in Stockholm, which has actually created an energy shortage and caused one to have quite acute problems. It has also created increased CO2 emissions. When it comes to a market as regulated as the energy and electricity markets, you have to be very careful when you go through the systems. It is easy to believe that you can create long-term reductions in terms of carbon dioxide and a better functioning market, but that is not what it looks like. A great deal is happening when it comes to mini-power plants and that you can produce your own electricity. That's not where we're going. I don't know how I as a private person could make sure that there was a good infrastructure so that I could produce my own energy on my roof or that the neighbor could use it. These are very complex issues. Now we will soon have a situation where we can store energy in our homes and perhaps in our own car. This is really complex. In the best of worlds I would also wish the market could handle this. However, when taxes have been imposed to create less CO2 electricity, it has actually become counterproductive.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1207	Madam President, I would like What they have done is to have removed a reduction in a tax on fossil energy. The Moderates and Christian Democrats want to continue to subsidise fossil power in their budget. This is what Lotta Olsson says. It makes no sense to me. For me, it is also completely unreasonable that the honourable Member, who says that this is extremely complicated, still believes that the policy is better at resolving questions about storage, self-produced electricity and so on. These are things that the honourable Member raises and which I think are good, but let the market run them! This is exactly what we are doing. We are removing the fossil subsidies that exist. I think that is perfectly reasonable. It has not increased emissions, at least not so far. There's nothing that's made it up. However, the companies warn that this could happen, but it has not happened. That is something we will have to deal with when it comes. But the Moderates and Christian Democrats want to continue subsidising fossil energy in their budget. This is what we have taken away.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1210	Madam President, I would like That's not what it looks like. This isn't gonna solve the problem. It is enough for us to have a really cold winter, and the problem will be very acute. Then I am glad that it is not we who are in government and have not made sure of this in time. In Stockholm it is not possible to have district heat and rock heat as in many other parts of Sweden. It is not allowed, and there are subways and other infrastructure to take into account. That we should wait until we have a shortage of energy in our capital, I think, is a cynical way of looking at energy. We cannot push this into absurdity, but we must screw the system in a responsible way. Surely the Center Party is a party that stands up for entrepreneurship, growth and a well-functioning society as a whole? This is exactly the opposite, I would say.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1213	Madam President, I would like I think the honourable Member will make her own point when she says that this is very complex. District heat is not prohibited throughout Stockholm. We have Värtaverket, for example. Rock heat is not prohibited throughout Stockholm either. The honourable Member makes his own point by not knowing what applies in her own city. The whole thing is quite clear to me: let the market handle this! Remove the fossil subsidies, and make sure we get to user flexibility! This is done in Uppsala, for example, where this is used much more clearly. That market governance must come in, but we have not seen such proposals in the Moderates. The only thing we've seen in the Moderates is continued fossil subsidies. For me, that is, in fact, completely unreasonable.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1215	Madam President, I would like We are now debating NU12 electricity market issues. I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 6, which is a reservation that we have supported but which is actually based on a few centre movements. The Left Party has, however, exercised similar demands in the past. The reservation concerns both renewable electricity generation and the expansion of transmission capacity, and long-term conditions for investors and consumers. Add better and simpler rules for micro-producers, so that solar electricity can become even more attractive in residential areas and on farms with multiple properties. Then I come to the betrayal from the Swedish power grid regarding the third cable to Gotland. The reservation raises the requirement for the promised cable to be built. What I reacted most to when Swedish power networks withdrew the plans for the third cable is that the possibility of more expansion of wind power on Gotland then disappears. We know that the people of Gotland are used to wind twists and do not have the same resistance as in some other places. We also know how important it would be for southern Sweden's impact balance to gain more electricity generation. When it comes to southern Sweden's possibility of greater wind power production, it is either the defence or Swedish power grid that stops. It's strange, I think. But when it comes to wind power to be built in northern Sweden, we should only accept it and expand the transfer so that the shortage parts can take part in the production. I have absolutely no objection that we really work for 100% renewable, but we should be able to build something in this country too! Then, of course, I point to Blekinge Offshore, a large wind farm that the defence puts an end to, and on Gotland, where you cannot expand without the third cable. That then also for Sweden so important Cementa needs reliability in our electricity system also with the transition to renewables is self-evident. It is therefore incomprehensible to us that the cable should not be launched. Enough about the reservation. Madam President, I would like Now to something that I am being repressed on a daily basis when it comes to the electricity market. Whatever house I visit in, in the neighborhood or for that matter anywhere in the country, the same frustration comes up. These are network charges and fixed charges, together with VAT and taxes. No one reacts to the electricity price, but it responds to the fact that network charges have risen many times compared to everything else in society. And what annoys the customers who have followed developments since liberalisation in 1996 is that for 15 years very good dividends were paid to the owners of the networks without major investments being made. But after storms and other alarm clocks, owners realize that they probably have to invest too. They will then increase network charges at a rapid pace to meet the needs. But not only that: the owners have become accustomed to good dividends, and then they have to increase so much that the dividends are up and the investments are financed. Madam President, I would like Now it is close that I take to words that are not appropriate to speak from the pulpit in the Swedish Parliament. But with respect to the tone that we should be keeping here, I just say: H-wheat what greed the investors and owners showed when the opportunity was given! In my view and that of the Left Party, infrastructure such as the electricity grid should be owned jointly by us. I cannot believe how we have got such a view of infrastructure that everyone needs to be market-oriented as well, and that some should be able to use electricity lines as well. And not only that: it is a monopoly in which no customer is able to choose or appeal the usury prices that are the consequences of years of profit distributions, which should instead have been invested in networks. If it is anywhere close to yellow vests, I can tell you that it is in terms of network charges. I have a feeling that the Riksdag will have to contend with electricity production issues in the future, although the agreement reached by some parties on electrical energy is not very old. I can spontaneously say that there is very good in the agreement, even if the Left Party did not join it. I am, of course, following the developments in this matter with great excitement and I will intervene in the question of whether it is possible to do so. That's for granted. But as things stand today, only the five parties that concluded the energy agreement are discussing these issues, although the Liberals made a valiant attempt to divide the energy gang with a committee initiative in which the Swedish Democrats were cheering for the full.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1226	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. Of course, we are in favour of all our other reservations, but for time-winning we are not in favour of them. Today we are debating electricity market issues. One of the issues that we Christian Democrats think is missing here, and which we think is important, concerns a goal of security of supply and a production planning objective. We can all take note of the climate roadmaps developed by industry, industry and the transport sector, which all point to increased electrification and increased electricity demand. If we are to meet the climate targets on net zero emissions, we will need more electricity. We believe that a common planning objective for electricity generation is needed so that producers, distribution and electricity customers can plan and dimension their activities. Here we Christian Democrats have previously proposed a planning target of 200 terawatt hours. Today, there is no one responsible for future electricity production. We want to commission the Swedish Energy Market Authority to impose demands on electricity dealers on long-term security of supply and security of supply. Access to electricity is crucial for society and the future, and we know that a country's infrastructure is dependent on electricity. Therefore, we Christian Democrats believe that the government should commission the Energy Authority and Swedish power networks to review the safety and risk of the electricity grids around Sweden being attacked and to look at the preparedness of local and regional network owners if something unexpected happens. In addition, the Swedish Energy Agency should investigate both the short-term and long-term work on electricity supply on Gotland. The Government states that the relevant authorities should continuously monitor developments in the electricity market by analysing, among other things, the power situation, including the need for the power reserve, the need for additional system services, network stability and other crucial factors, so that Sweden has a robust electricity system with a high level of security of supply and a good transmission capacity with a low environmental impact, and electricity at competitive prices. These issues are extremely urgent. They should be a standing point on the agenda when we see examples of electricity not being enough and when business start-ups do not happen because electricity cannot be delivered. The investments that should have been made will not be made and jobs will not be available. Madam President, I would like A secure and secure energy supply is an important engine for the Swedish economy and crucial for welfare. Swedish companies and consumers should be able to rely on a stable and reliable electricity supply. Long-term rules of the game and stable conditions in the electricity market are of great importance for Swedish jobs and competitiveness. In our view, the energy policy pursued should be based on the idea of stewardship, that is, that the finite resources available should be managed and not consumed. Energy policy should thus enable future generations to operate and live in a sustainable society. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that renewable energy production should be expanded, fossil fuels phased out and the conditions for controlled generation shifts in Swedish nuclear power should be created. We also advocate a free and open electricity market with increased competition, for the benefit of customers. Electricity networks in EU Member States need to be even more interconnected to strengthen transmission capacity.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1235	Madam President, I would like Camilla Brodin talked about a delivery security target, but one such target is a chimare. It is a way for existing industries to ultimately be paid for their mere existence. In fact, security of supply depends on who the final consumer is. An industry with heavy processes and with problems with interruptions probably wants at least 99.99 percent security of supply. But a private customer with a battery store in the basement probably settles for 95 percent. Such a goal is simply irreplaceable. The payment for that objective will also be unfair. It will put those who are flexible and who are also part of the solution to the problems we have at a disadvantage. There are quite few answers in KD's exercise to what KD means by this delivery safety goal. I am going to ask a few questions to learn more: What is the real purpose of this case? What is a reasonable goal, says KD? Does one have an idea of what one might think of, even if it is to be investigated? How is such a goal to be achieved? If so, what instruments are we talking about? And above all, who will pay for this?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1238	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member raises an urgent question about security of supply. It is great that we are allowed to stand here and debate this issue when we talk about electricity market issues. It is no secret that we have called for a security of supply target in this debate. But you ask a variety of questions. I know you've been reading on many of these questions since before, but you're still demanding an answer. The security of supply is about being able to rely on the electricity coming all the way. We want to give such a responsibility, because today that is not the responsibility. Here we must jointly take responsibility and identify any authority that will assume that responsibility, so that electricity can continue to be a hygiene factor to be reckoned with.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1240	Madam President, I would like Yes, Camilla Brodin, you've demanded a goal. But I still haven't got an answer to what you're thinking about with the goal. It is one thing to give a responsibility to an authority, but it is not the same as setting a goal. I repeat my questions. Let's see if I can get an answer, because I didn't get anything right now. There is also very little mention of this in the motion that the Christian Democrats have written. It's very hard for me to read anything about it, because it just doesn't exist. Give me an example of what is a reasonable goal! How do you ensure that there is equality between the one who has a battery storage in the basement and that process industry? How is the goal to be achieved? Which instruments are envisaged? And above all, who's going to pay for the case?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1243	Madam President, I would like The delivery safety targets are a hygiene factor, as I said earlier. Here we must ensure that business start-ups can take place. It is extremely important for all the jobs that we are now saying no to because we do not have enough electricity. We must take a joint responsibility here, but politics should not dwell on small details. Here we must have a functioning electricity market. However, we must be able to put the requirements on how to ensure security of supply. We must jointly accept responsibility for this. This is one of the issues that we have sent to the Energy Agreement Implementation Group and that we want to discuss. I know that other parties also want to take that responsibility. Everyone, whether they are companies or private individuals, must be able to trust that electricity will continue to be delivered in the future. That is our firm opinion.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1246	Madam President, I would like Electricity market issues really affect society as a whole. It is about everything from patient safety, where hospitals must have a safe operation every second, to Uddeholm in Värmland being able to have a delivery-proof operation and thus continue to compete in a global market. Electricity market issues are just as much about the fact that the President and I will be able to charge our phones whenever we want and that we know that our refrigerators at home are rolling on during all 24 hours of the day. In Sweden we are used to being able to expect that every hour, every minute and every second have stable electricity production that is sufficient for both households and industry. Therefore, electricity market issues must be based on the needs of society as a whole and the importance of electricity supply for our competitiveness as an industrial nation. In addition, these issues are a key factor in coping with the climate challenges that we see. I believe, of course, that most parties in this Parliament are prepared to sign everything I say, but politically I see blindfolds and ambiguous collaborations where the level of ambition is not what it should be. More than 60 per cent of Parliament's parties are behind the energy agreement that was concluded a few years ago. As most of the time, cooperation is the best way, but not this time. There is a lack of a common vision, no impact assessments have been carried out on the objectives of the Energy Agreement and, above all, there is a lack of a basis for reality. I probably do not need to point out that the Liberals are not in the Energy Agreement. The ambition level for Swedish energy policy must be to ensure Swedish competitiveness and to really tackle the climate challenges. On this basis, I would like to highlight two points in my speech. First of all, Sweden needs a delivery security target. Regardless of what you work with, it is important to start from goals. We know that the security of electricity supply will not be guaranteed in future winters. Swedish power grids and a number of other actors are trying in every way to raise awareness of imminent power shortages in cold days coming winters. Those affected live and work mainly in central and southern Sweden. Lack of security of supply risks causing serious damage to both industry and households, and it will cost money. The power reserve may need to be used more frequently. This means, among other things, that the oil power plant in Karlshamn needs to be started, which is anything but climate smart. In addition, we will need to import more electricity, often from German coal or Russian gas. It is clear from the Liberals' side that there is now a need for a security of supply target that takes into account society's needs and the impact of the chosen target in the energy agreement on our competitiveness as an industrial nation, as well as on the climate. Setting such targets but not promoting security of supply is remarkable. I am pleased that more parties are now following our proposal on security of supply targets. I would therefore ask the House to note that I am in favour of reservation 1. Secondly, let's talk about goals. The Energy Agreement sets a clear target of 100% renewable energy. It is good that wind power, for example, is being expanded both in Sweden and in our surrounding countries. The problem is that when there is still wind in Sweden the wind turbines are still in the vicinity of Sweden. And we need electricity every day of the year, no matter how cold it is and no matter how much it blows. We also look with concern at Germany, which is closing down its nuclear power, but which, despite large and expensive investments in renewable energy, is increasingly dependent on coal. If we shut down Swedish nuclear power, we will need to import more electricity and become more dependent on fossil energy. Our neighbours will also become more dependent on fossil electricity production. We don't think that's very climate-smart. The dream of 100% renewable electricity generation thus becomes a nightmare. Within a number of years, around 30 percent of Swedish nuclear power capacity will disappear. If we are to succeed in solving the climate challenges, we need to electrify society even more, and if Sweden is to continue to be a strong industrial nation with expansions and start-ups, we simply need more energy. Swedish society and, above all, Swedish industry need long-term sustainability and security of supply. Nuclear power is the cornerstone of Swedish competitiveness and important from a climate perspective. The UN Panel on Climate Change also highlights nuclear power to reduce world emissions. By exporting fossil-free electricity to our EU neighbours, we also contribute to the climate transition. It's pretty simple math. We have welcomed the fact that the Moderates and Christian Democrats have once again seen the importance of nuclear power, even if they sold the butter – nuclear – and lost the money in the energy agreement. Just over a week ago, a committee initiative was also discussed which we Liberals submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs to protect Swedish nuclear power, develop it and ensure Swedish competitiveness. It was simply an open goal for the Moderates and Christian Democrats. However, although it was a gold mark for targets, most of the committee chose to reject the initiative. Now, however, there is a chance again to raise the level of ambition and make a difference out of its policies. Already in tomorrow's vote, one can vote to change the target from 100% renewable to 100% fossil-free electricity production. Then we could save nuclear power and strengthen our competitiveness as an industrial nation. I would therefore like the House to note that I am in favour of reservation 3. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 1 and 3.
i-24VP7DxAmWWFFC4NDa4Wcs	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy (NU12) on electricity market issues. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all reservations. Madam President, I would like The report deals with targets for security of supply, security of Swedish electricity networks, targets for fossil-free production and other issues relating to the electricity market. In the spring of 2018, the Riksdag dealt with the proposal for Energy Policy. The overall objective is that energy policy should aim to reconcile ecological sustainability, competitiveness and security of supply. The target of 2040 is 100% renewable electricity generation. Sweden will also have a 50% more efficient energy use in 2030 than in 2005. We Social Democrats are very pleased with the energy agreement, and we very much hope that it will last over time. It is important for entrepreneurs and consumers to actually know the rules of the game so that they dare to invest in renewables. The development right now is very fast and has gone fast in recent years. Who could have thought a few years ago that companies from other countries would come here and want to invest in server halls because we have cheap electricity and a good climate? This development is positive, and we see that renewable production is often the cheapest source of energy. Here the government has made great efforts to increase renewable production, for example of solar electricity. There, M and KD together with SD made major cuts, but in our amending budget we put back some money. Madam President, I would like When it comes to security of supply targets, we agree in the Energy Agreement that Sweden should have a robust electricity system with high security of supply, a low environmental impact and electricity at competitive prices. The electricity market in Sweden had its current design mainly on 1 January 1996. Following the reform of the electricity market, substantial changes have been made to electricity legislation, not least due to developments in EU law in this area. The so-called retail market for electricity in Sweden is since the electricity market reform competitive. The price of the retail market is the only part over which customers have any influence, as it is possible to switch suppliers. Other costs such as taxes, certificates of electricity and network charges can only be affected by reducing their use of electricity. How is the electricity market 20 years after the reform? What future challenges do we face? Do we have enough electricity? The ideas in the report are based on this. The short answer to the last question is yes, but it is of course much more complicated than that. If you go in and look in the control room on Svenska Kraftnät's website you can see how it is with electricity generation in Sweden. The page is updated every five minutes, and there you can follow how much electricity is produced, what power types and how much is consumed. At 5:50 p.m. today, 18 231 megawatts were produced. The total consumption was 15 608 megawatts. This means that Sweden exported 2,623 megawatts, and so it actually looks like most days you go in and look. What can also be seen is that electricity prices in the electricity price areas are often the same throughout Sweden. At least it's been like that all day today. Here you can also see what major investments are being made in the electricity grid. Having said that, it is of course not enough everywhere in Sweden all the time. On the other hand, the main bottlenecks in the system to increase transmission capacity between electricity price areas are being removed. But more needs to be done. The investment plan of Swedish power networks up to 2027 actually covers SEK 45 billion. Madam President, I would like The recent EU legislation states that all Member States with capacity mechanisms should have a standard of reliability – a complicated word – in place. Indeed, this is a type of level of security as it should indicate the desired level of security of supply of the Member State linked to availability of capacity. Sweden has a capacity mechanism in the form of the power reserve. As long as we have it, we must meet the requirements of the regulation. The Government has now commissioned the Swedish Energy Market Authority to analyse what measures are required. There was such a target for the availability of power before the 1996 reregulation. However, this system contributed to a pattern of over-investment in electricity generation plants, and it was, among other things, the pattern of increased costs that was sought to break when changing the electricity market. We need to find other tools here. User flexibility and energy storage will be important tools to cope with energy supply in the future. Here we also see great opportunities with digitalisation. This also applies to the development of smart grids and connected devices. They can also increase user flexibility and relieve the power grid. What we see is that an increased supply of locally produced electricity also increases flexibility. But as I said before, we should not underestimate the issue of impact. This is one of the challenges that we need to follow closely in the coming years.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1278	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I highlighted precisely what is happening in front of us, namely the disappearance of planned power generation, a declining margin in the power system and a more vulnerable situation in the winter. Here the honourable Member pointed out in his speech that it is stated in the objectives of Swedish energy policy that one should strive for a high level of security of supply and so on. But just because you say it does not mean that you will get it, it is what you do that plays a more crucial role. Here, the Social Democrats have repeatedly rejected a goal of security of supply, and you are doing so in this report as well. As a result, more elements of weather-dependent power generation have increased vulnerability and the importance of planned power generation is increasing. We can see that flexibility will have a more crucial role to play in the future, but at the same time not everyone can be flexible if we look at a large part of the industry. There is also an increased need for electrification, and it is more likely that more electricity will be used, not less. In the short term, the government chooses to shock-raise taxes on fuels used in cogeneration plants in our major cities. This leads to premature closures. This, in turn, leads to a further lack of impact and to bottlenecks in local transmission capacity that are precisely preventing business start-ups. Furthermore, housing planning may not work as intended and so on. In the short term, this leads to increased CO2 emissions. How can the Social Democrats think it is good politics?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1283	Madam President, I would like Of course, we think that the policy we are pursuing is good policy. That's usually the way it is when you're in a government position or when you're in control. But this does not mean that we do not see the problems. At the same time, Svenska Kraftnät has analysed the situation in the coming years on behalf of the Riksdag. They do not see any problems in the short or medium term in coping with the efficacy problems. We can see that this is the case. This is why the major investments are made by Swedish power grids, and major expansions are being made in renewable energy. I am not as worried as Mr Bäckström, but we see the problems. That is something we must look at, invest in and ensure that production increases.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1287	Madam President, I would like However, the policies and proposals put forward contribute to increasing the impact gap, to creating local bottlenecks in transmission capacity and to increasing CO2 emissions. It is perhaps the case that the Social Democrats think it is a good policy. These are the consequences on which the industry agrees and on which we can see the effects after the budget has been presented. There is an absolute need to invest in the electricity grids. I agree. But what helps to increase the need for investment is a declining capacity factor, i.e. even greater capacity is needed as a result of the policy pursued. The electricity grid business is a monopoly. That is where consumers are forced to pay. If we look at the investments made by the Swedish power grid, it is an increase rate of 1 000 percent, that is ten times more annually. It significantly increases tariffs for electricity grid customers, and it contributes to creating the high electricity grid costs that affect consumers. It is also a consequence of the policy pursued. I find it hard to see how to be proud and satisfied with that outcome. It should be the other way around. While there is a lack of impact, it should be ensured that opportunities for business start-ups are limited. For new jobs, new residential areas and electrification of parts of public transport, you need to use more electricity. This affects industry's opportunities in Sweden, that is, what creates welfare. Are not the Social Democrats concerned about the development that we see coming, which can prevent the basic industry's ability to operate from Sweden?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1291	Madam President, I would like Well, we see the problems, and we see that more electricity needs to be produced. But I am not as worried as the honourable Member is. I believe that we will solve the problems of the rate of expansion that exists, for example with wind power. No, I'm not as worried as the honourable Member.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1292	Madam President, I would like On September 5, just a few days before the election, we could read and hear on the local radio on Gotland that the Minister for Energy is opening up to the third Gotland cable. He also said that it is important that it is not just about the election campaign but that you also stand behind what you say. My question to the Social Democrats and Monica Haider is whether you are behind this when the election campaign has ended and the ballot boxes have closed. What have the Social Democrats done since 5 September to get the cable in place? Has the government acted in any way? When will we see such an assignment to the Swedish power grid? Or was what the Minister for Energy said, after all, just a fine move in the election campaign?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1294	Madam President, I would like I can't answer exactly if and when there's a cable. We have said that there should not be a cable. However, we have made Gotland a pilot area. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Energy Agency to produce a report, Energypilot Gotland. It has been delivered, and it is now being processed in the Government Office. I can't promise there'll be a new cable for Gotland. I must admit that I have not heard that the Minister for Energy should have said that a new cable should be drawn to Gotland.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1296	Madam President, I would like Then I can unfortunately say that it was only fine words in an election movement that the Minister for Energy delivered and not something real, when Monica Haider says that there should be no cable. The fine project run by the Minister for Energy does not have a chance to meet the needs of Cementa, which accounts for 85 per cent of Swedish cement production. There's no way to make that production. You need a third Gotland cable. Gotland also needs the cable, not least in order to export and for its own energy security. Should I interpret Monica Haider so that the Social Democrats have backed away from what the Minister of Energy promised in the election movement? There is thus no opening for a third Gotland cable. It won't be like that. There is no work in the government on the matter, and there will be no mission to the Swedish power network from the Social Democrats.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1299	Madam President, I would like As far as I know, there is no decision to build an extra cable for Gotland. What I said was that I hadn't heard how the Minister for Energy had spoken before the elections. Actually, I hadn't heard that before. The report Energypilot Gotland and what has been found there are currently being prepared in the Government Office. But I can't stand here and say no to a cable either.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1300	Madam President, I would like I'd like to get back on the subject of delivery security. Monica Haider talked about some reliability standard. What it would contain, I don't know. But delivery security is both A and O in order for us to dare to do one thing and the other. I wouldn't even want to pull my washing machine at home if I didn't know that the machine could finish without the electricity disappearing. The previous debate was about the fact that guarantees cannot always be given to everyone. No, but maybe I'm willing to pay for security of supply. Our industry definitely cannot get rid of the energy when they most need it. It may be possible to create a system where you can decide that you do not use electricity at certain times, so that there can be electrical energy left over to others. The fact that we can secure the security of supply is hugely important. Our entire industrial Sweden is based on electrical reliability. That is something many other countries do not have. Therefore, Sweden has been good at attracting jobs and activities that are electric energy-heavy. Some of the major investments that have come to Sweden in the form of computer halls and such things would certainly not have come if one feared that Google or Facebook, for example, could all of a sudden be shut down because they did not secure this. How do you think society will work when we move to a completely different system from what Sweden is used to?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1304	Madam President, I would like As I said in my main speech, this is not really a big problem today. There are certain times. Last year there was no deficit. We did not have to start the power reserve throughout the year, but we passed our electricity supply. On the other hand, we see that we need to do things in the longer term, and that is part of the planning of investments and so on. As far as security of supply is concerned, I don't think I can manage to repeat Rickard Nordin's fine argument on the subject. But I think just like him – this is quite strange. We are in favour of a free market in this area. In this particular area, however, the Moderates do not want a free market. I think it's weird.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1306	Madam President, I would like I think this is an exciting debate – I should stand here and be against a free market. But now, for example, Ystad has actually been urged by the local electricity supplier not to make coffee between eight and ten, as there is a lack of power. This isn't how Monica Haider wants us to have it in society, is it? Somewhere the government has a responsibility. I think this is very strange; not in any other area is one so freed from the market economy that one takes no responsibility for anything. I really don't want to hear from you in a few years' time that you've been naive, because now we've really talked about this. This applies both to security issues and to the fact that we will have a shortage because we will not be able to deliver enough energy. Sweden has a very strong export industry. What is also typical of Sweden is that the export industry is very energy-intensive. Today, both in our mines and in other industries, they are very good at switching from fossil fuels to electricity. When you do this transition and you're the best in the class, it's counterproductive if the government doesn't back it up in a good, smart and forward-looking way. I do not know who more than the government should be able to have the complete overview of all the different factors affecting the Swedish electricity market.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1308	Madam President, I would like In my main speech, I said, among other things, how much Swedish power networks invest in the electricity grid. The regional and local network owners are also investing to build away exactly what the honourable Member is talking about. We'll be able to make coffee at all times of the day. However, I believe that in the future with the smart grids and energy storage we will be able to control when we are going to do things. Maybe you don't have to wash exactly at the same time. Maybe you can wash at night with smart machines and so on. I think we're gonna figure it out. On the honourable Member's speech, it sounds like it is a crisis and a disaster right now. It's not. We didn't use the power reserve on the whole of last year. It is not such a crisis and disaster. But we see that we need to do more in the future, and that work is already under way.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1311	Madam President, I would like I find it difficult to understand why it would not be possible to develop a security of supply target that takes into account society's needs and the impact of the chosen targets in the energy agreement on our competitiveness as an industrial nation and on the climate. I heard in the honourable Member's speech that there is a type of security of supply target and that we export most days a year. What about the other days? Can the honourable Member give examples of what the objectives of the Energy Agreement mean for the balance of energy performance and security of supply, since it is mentioned that there is a type of security of supply target? And what does it mean for the balance of impact and security of supply that we have a 100% renewable target?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1312	Madam President, I would like What I said in my main speech was that under new EU legislation, all Member States must have capacity mechanisms. We believe that we have one in the form of the power reserve. With our power reserve, we may have to set some kind of target. We don't have a delivery safety target today. That's what I said in my main speech.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1313	Madam President, I would like No matter what you work with, you usually set a goal. If an agreement has been reached, I think it is reasonable to set a target, so that industry and households can be sure of what they can expect and so that we know that we are able to strengthen our competitiveness, especially given that we are heavily dependent on exports. The most logical thing would be that we developed a delivery security target for Sweden.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1314	Madam President, I would like Now I did not negotiate the energy agreement, so I cannot say exactly what was said and what was discussed. But there is no security of supply target in the Energy Agreement. I assume that this was not a question at that hearing, because it does not exist. We in the Social Democrats do not think there is a need for a security of supply target. If we had such a case, someone would have to pay for it. But who's gonna pay? Well, it's the customers who have to pay for it. The system we have today works. Swedish power networks have ensured that we have enough electricity in Sweden. We have not seen that we need a delivery security target.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1316	Madam President, I would like I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservations. Madam President, I would like These are very funny questions. We are also in very fun times. The first thing to note is that the switch to 100% renewables is now taking place very quickly, and it is going very well. Just take wind as the first example. There we now have a doubling of the wind production of electricity in Sweden only in the next few years. We are talking about 25% wind in the system by 2022. It is an incredibly exciting and positive development, and then we have not even started with the full development of investments in offshore wind that could eventually account for up 40 – 50 percent of total electricity production in Sweden. It's the same with the sun. Now we finally see that Sweden is embarking on the solar revolution. Solar energy is now increasing exponentially. This is largely due to a series of regulatory simplifications and initiatives that the government and, above all, the Green Party have pushed forward. There is a very positive development there. Common to both wind and sun is that we see that the price development is so positive. For every dollar we now invest in wind, we get twice as much energy as what corresponds to every dollar that, for example, Finland or the United Kingdom, invests in nuclear energy. It is an incredibly positive trend in society and a price development that is worth highlighting. All of this is fantastic and positive. But of course it also raises challenges for the system. First of all, let me say that we should not exaggerate these challenges. We basically have a robust system in Sweden. We have a net that's strong. One example of the system still working well is that in recent years we have seen a very large net export of electricity from Sweden. It often sounds, and not least in this House from several of the previous speakers, that we are about to import energy from gas or coal from half of Russia and half of Germany. That is certainly not the case. It's just the opposite. We are the big net exporter. The few times we need to import, we have done so mainly from Norway. But the big trend is that Sweden exports climate smart and good electricity to other countries. Don't exaggerate our challenges. We have challenges. You can approach them in two different ways. The first is the conservative approach to them. Then you turn to what could reasonably be described as a form of force socialism. As soon as the market is changing, the government's money bag will be used to pump money into the forces that are losing out on the changing market situation. What is interesting is that in this debate I have already heard many of these power socialists talk about the fact that we want to maintain a low cost of electricity. Yes, but if you are going to subsidise nuclear power and have a nuclear planning target, it will mean that it is the customer who will have to pay for that production. It will be charged in the form of higher electricity prices. You should be very clear about that so that you know what it is about. Either you take the money directly from the Treasury, and then it's about billions of dollars – or you let your customers pay it, and then it's they who get a much more expensive electricity consumption. That is the conservative force-socialist approach to the challenge. The second way to tackle the challenge is to look with confidence at technology development, everything related to the change in the system and the adaptation of the system to a 100% renewable electricity system. It's about flexibility. Under flexibility, it is about efficiency improvements and how we invest in smart grids. It is about consumers being able to become more flexible in their consumption. I thought it was a very good example with the coffee maker. Maybe not everyone has to make coffee every hour at exactly the same time. That was a small example. There is a great deal that can be done to make consumers more flexible. The second point concerns everything that has to do with laws. It is also a technology development that goes very fast. We see that the price is significantly reduced on energy stocks. Here we can certainly take the opportunity to do so as positively as possible with electrification of the transport sector. Either electric cars can result in a development where we have greater power challenges, or you can use them to create balance in the system. We have everything relating to the system services market in general. It could be the balance mass, which has been mentioned here before. There can be efficiency improvements in different ways in the system. It may be that you get paid to turn yourself off from the net and such things. We have everything to do with transmission capacity. It has already been highlighted here in the debate before. Last but not least, we have the sea breeze. The sea wind is not only positive because it is a renewable and good resource. It is not least so that you can expand it in southern Sweden where we have needs from the industry. That's the positive way of seeing it. It is forward-looking technology-optimistic. We can do this. But the far right has chosen force socialism and conservative orientation. The interesting thing about outer right socialism in this case is that the money bag only opens when it comes to nuclear power and fossil production. We have debated this earlier today. When it comes to removing subsidies for fossil production, one stands on the barricades. Then you are very generous with the treasury and the subsidies pumped into the pockets of the power companies. It is very interesting to note in the debate that one claims to stand for some form of market orientation. But with regard to the socialist solutions that are being pursued, it is a question of subsidising nuclear power and fossil production. Despite this, no one wants to build. We'll be very clear about that. Britain now has perhaps the most ambitious subsidy for a power battle in many years. However, companies do not want to build nuclear power. They have withdrawn from the construction of several of the reactors planned. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that we should have a 100% renewable electricity system. The temporary ripple on the surface is the death toll of the 20th century energy policy alone.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1337	Madam President, I would like I signed up for the debate in view of the many peculiarities that have been expressed here this evening. Anyone who wants to think about why the Moderates have threatened to leave the Energy Agreement can only listen to this debate. Mr Lorentz concluded the previous debate by saying that nuclear power should be removed. The Center Party and the Social Democrats are unequivocally saying that after 2040 there should be no nuclear power. Then it should be 100% renewable. The target of 100% renewable has been repeated in this speaker's chair as a single salutary one. That is the problem with the energy agreement as it stands. If it is the positions that will be defended at the negotiating table under the Energy Agreement in the future too, the Moderates will not be able to remain in the agreement. Now both the Environmental Party's bourgeois council in Stockholm and their economic-political spokesperson Lorentz Tovatt have made it clear to the Swedish people that the lack of the electricity market should be regulated by how people use coffee machines at different times of the day. The Center Party has declared that if you have power in the socket 95 percent of the time when you are home you can probably be satisfied with it. This is bizarre. It is Sweden that banana republics represented by parties that are part of the Energy Agreement. It's the idea that we probably don't need electricity in the wall socket evenly. It illustrates with what negligence the government is dealing with energy issues. In the energy agreement we state that we shall have long-term and good conditions for cogeneration and district heating. Then what does the government do? Yes, we are moving forward with an eightfold increase in the tax on cogeneration. To be against this calls the Center Party a subsidy. These are new languages of bizarre proportions. What you do is therefore introduce what can be considered as an excise duty on some specific cogeneration plants in Stockholm and Malmö, among other places. This leads in Stockholm's case to a loss of 10 per cent of its power capacity in winter and 20 per cent in Malmö's case. It will thus have a shortage of electricity in Sweden's capital and in Sweden's third largest city. This will mean that the ambition to electrify society will stop. It will be forced to say no to investment in housing, and the server halls that the Social Democrats from this pulpit just recently stood and praised will not be able to be built. Then someone might say: But what, it doesn't matter, because we can have server halls in Norrland! No, we can't – not if we want to build 5G in this country. Then we will need server halls also in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. This is a formidable negligence from our present government. It is also a violation of the current energy agreement because it says that we should have long-term conditions for cogeneration in Sweden. What is even more bizarre is that the proposal is being brought forward even though it has negative environmental impacts. Thus an environmental tax is introduced which, according to the industry, will lead to increased emissions by 50 000 tonnes of CO2 per year. That is equivalent to 50 000 flights to Spain, Lorentz Tovatt. That is negligent policy, Madam President.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1347	Madam President, I would like Now I think that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin can either listen a little better or read the Minutes afterwards and apologize. First of all, I did not mention at all the objectives of the Energy Agreement in the speaker's chair, so it is purely false lies from the Moderates. Secondly, what I said – which Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin had known if he had listened – when it comes to the situation with the delivery safety objective that whoever has battery storage in the basement is probably not interested in paying for the same security of supply as the heavy process industry. For that person, it may be enough with 95% security of supply, because it is still going to be okay. That person always has electricity in the wall socket and is not prepared to pay in the same way as heavy process industry. That is what I said both in this replicator's chair and in my speech in the other speaker's chair. Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin can listen a little better if he wants to criticize.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1351	Madam President, I would like I didn't hear any question from Rickard Nordin. However, I cannot help but note that it is a rather strange political intention to move from a system where we have 100% security of supply to a system where we have an ambition to lower it. So we want to build a more volatile energy system. It is strange that you have such ideological blindfolds that you are interested in building a worse energy system. Then why do I mean it's getting worse? Because when the energy system becomes volatile, energy becomes more expensive when people need it most. This government, together with the JÖK parties, has said that after 2030 we will not sell any fossil-powered cars in this country. This means that you want every Swede in ten years to charge their electric cars at night in order to get to work. At the same time, they want to build a system that is completely volatile. It is an incredibly strange determination for energy policy. One cannot hide behind flosskeler as smart energy use and energy efficiency if the energy use, conservatively calculated, is expected to increase by 30 percent in this country to 2040. One cannot have the ambition to electrify everything and at the same time the question of how to answer: We should just use the electricity a little smarter. That doesn't make any sense, Rickard Nordin!
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1356	Madam President, I would like I would very much like to see Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin show when we have had 100% security of supply in Swedish energy supply. In that case, according to him, we would never have had a power outage. That system doesn't exist, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin. There's no one talking about us having less security of supply. It is also included in the energy agreement that we should have a high level of security of supply. However, it is not reasonable for everyone to pay the same amount when you are not interested in it. That, if anything, is wasting money for consumers, for Swedish industry and for the willingness to pay. In addition, it also seems to be tax money to be used. No one wants to lower the security of supply. The interesting thing is that you have electricity in your wall socket. You don't want to pay for a delivery security that you don't need. That's completely unreasonable. Not all cars should be electrified either. I think Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has missed something here. You will very much want to get involved in energy matters more than during other members' parental leave. There's biogas, and there's hydrogen. There is electricity – you're right – and there's ethanol, biodiesel and methanol. I can go on for a long time. Come back when you've read what's right and what's right! A 100% delivery-proof energy system has never existed. Nor will there be, for there will always be interruptions, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin. That is not what this is about.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1361	Madam President, I would like It is clear that you can choose to dim the whole discussion by talking about extraordinary events that cause power outages as something that means that you do not reach 100 percent security of supply. But that's not what Rickard Nordin is after. He is okay with a society where, for example, you have rotating relaxation and where there is no power more than 95 percent of the day. That is exactly what Rickard Nordin says in his speech. And that's exactly what Lorentz Tovatt is saying when he means that you may not have to shower hot always or maybe not have the coffee maker on all the time. You may not need to be able to charge the car during all hours of the day. That is exactly what you are striving for. Of course, I also understand that we do not have 100% security of supply in the sense that there is never a blackout. But what you're into is designing a system that becomes more volatile and has less accessibility. Now, together with the government, you have created a risk of electricity shortages for winter in the capital of Sweden and in Sweden's third largest city. It is irresponsible, and it is a responsibility that you will have to bear in full.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1365	Madam President, I would like It's amazing what breast tones you hear here! To put words in people's mouth, which has been clearly done by Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, I think is a strange thing. But let's just ignore it. Mr Bohlin is a positive example of the force socialism that I highlighted in my speech. Almost all I heard in his speech was subsidies, subsidies and subsidies for nuclear power and fossil fuels. So he does not think that we should remove the direct fossil subsidies that have been directed at the burning of coal. I can't believe it. I really thought that the Moderates had gone further than wanting targeted subsidies to incinerate coal in the heating system. My first question to Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin is therefore: Does he think we should keep carbon in the heating system? My second question is: how much does Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin think the electricity customer should pay for nuclear power? Is it about 1 kroner more per kilowatt hour? How much more is Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin willing to impose electricity consumers on the expensive production of nuclear power? There has even been talk of new nuclear power from the Moderates' side. It would have been incredibly expensive. Either, as I said, you take money from the public purse and you give it directly to the power companies to benefit your friends in the industry or you solve it by letting electricity consumers take the big bill. But how big will the bill be? What's okay, according to the Moderates?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1370	Madam President, I would like It is almost bizarre to stand here and hear Lorentz Tovatt evil himself over subsidies, when perhaps it is above all Lorentz Tovatt in this House who wants to spend SEK 20 billion on electricity grid charges to expand offshore wind power. That is the scale of the planned expansion that we are facing, and it will be spent on electricity bills for electricity customers. That, I mean, would be a very irresponsible way to go. Furthermore, as far as Lorentz Tovatt's reasoning is concerned, they do not really agree with the test of reality. We do not subsidise coal power. All fossil-fired combined heat and power plants in Sweden are part of the EU ETS. In addition, you now want to impose an eight-fold tax on combined heat and power, which means that Stockholm Exergi will close two boilers in Värtaverket and that Eon will shut down Helenelundsverket in Malmö, which will lead to a shortage of electricity. To be against this eightfold tax cannot even be termed "subsidisation" with environmentalist new language. We are against the eightfold CO2 tax that you are imposing. But the funny thing about this, and that is what we want Lorentz to think about, is: How does he feel about this tax leading to no tax money being collected because the works shut down, while at the same time leading to an increased environmental burden equivalent to 50 000 flights to Spain and at the same time causing electricity shortages in Stockholm and Malmö? It is a formidable political blunder that fails in all areas. What do you have to say to your constituents in Stockholm about that?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1374	Madam President, I would like There was a lot going on right now. The first thing to be said is that somewhere it can be a measure of how to refer to different companies here and there that figure things out. Stockholm Exergi has made the most rogue calculation ever of the consequences of this. What happens is that coal power production is being shut down. It is the actual consequence of the tax that we are now removing the reduction for. Well, that's a subsidy, isn't it? If you remove a tax reduction, you remove a fossil subsidy. It's by definition true. There is no question about such a thing. So what is happening now is that coal power is being removed. They will then convert it into electricity generation and make it possible for us to become dependent on importing more electricity – when in fact we are a large net exporter! They calculate that this would cause our emissions to increase, but it is the opposite: we are closing down coal power production because we are removing the tax subsidy that has existed before and that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin's party has always been fighting for. As for the EU ETS, the government has now – thank Gud – steered the EU ETS so that the price has increased, but it cannot be overcome that it is still far too low. Of course we also need to treasure. I noticed that I did not receive an answer to any of my two questions. The first concerns coal in the heating system: Does Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin think that we should continue subsidising coal and keep it in our heating system? The second was: how much does Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin think it is reasonable for electricity consumers to have to push out in order to be able to pay the subsidies that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin wants to give to nuclear power producers?
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1378	Madam President, I would like It is sad that Lorentz Tovatt thinks Stockholm Exergi is an unserious company. He is, as far as I remember, in charge of that company in Stockholm, but that is another issue. We do not want to subsidise coal. We do not think that we should have coal as part of the Swedish energy mix. In both the Stockholm case and the Malmö case, there is a plan, which the government is now destroying, to switch to bio-powered cogeneration. The fact is that these combined heat and power (CHP) plants are now losing their earning capacity and are closing prematurely compared to the plan of five to six years is also losing the opportunity to invest in the new bio-powered power plants contained in the plan. Neither Eon nor Stockholm Exergi will probably be able to afford it because of the loss of earnings capacity, which is a direct consequence of the government's harmful tax resulting in increased emissions of 50,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide per year. As far as the issue of nuclear power is concerned, we have not put forward any proposals for subsidies. We want to create good market conditions for nuclear power in Sweden. We just do not want us from a political point of view to move in a direction where we create a more volatile electricity system than today, tie rice to our own backs and become dependent on importing dirty electricity from Sweden's neighbouring countries when it does not blow. It is bad for the environment, it is bad from a safety policy perspective and it is also bad for electricity consumers because they will then have to pay sky-high electricity prices. It is a little comfort, Madam President, that Lorentz Tovatt believes that it is possible to solve it by being able to turn off the coffee maker from time to time.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1382	Madam President, I would like We're going to discuss the Council of Europe here. As a completely new member of this House, the Council of Europe, I have the honour to begin. It's a little strange, but that's what the order is. What I want to say about the Council of Europe is really about the importance of us protecting and developing the Council of Europe. At the time in which we live today in Europe, we see purely authoritarian currents taking off, including in the European Union. In much of Europe, we see that developments in democracy, the rule of law and human rights are regressing. Women, LGBTQ people and migrants are allowed to see their rights both challenged and even repressed. In this context, the Council of Europe has a unique role to play. Much can be said about existing organisations, but few organisations have the breadth of the Council of Europe. We often highlight the OSSE as a very good example, but they focus mainly on security. But security is built with democracy. It is built with the rule of law. It is built with people's rights. That is why the role of the Council of Europe is unique and extremely important to protect. However, there are some challenges in the Council of Europe, as we all know. This is, in fact, the relationship with the European Union. There are tensions in how the EU and the Council of Europe work together. I believe that this is one of the points on which we have to start working even more strongly. Such work is, of course, ongoing. However, the Council of Europe will probably have to spit a little bit there, and the EU might have to be more inclusive. Similarly, what we know about the Council of Europe in Europe is rather problematic. The Council is celebrating 70 years now - on Sunday, I think it was. How much did we read about it in Swedish media, for example? How much did we notice here in Parliament that such an important institution actually celebrated 70 years? Here I believe that a great deal lies in the need to help us lift the Council of Europe. This is no wonder, however, given that the organisation has problems, largely due to the situation with Russia's annexation of Crimea. It is appalling, and it is clear that it creates enormous problems that must be dealt with. It also creates a purely economic problem, as a large part of the budget has disappeared – 11%, if I am not mistaken. Turkey's payments have also been reduced. I think it is absolutely right that an organization should correct the mouth for the lunch. That's how it is: If the money is reduced, you have to redo the organization. I also believe, at least on the basis of what I have seen from the organization, that there are many efficiency options. There are great opportunities to do things better, more efficiently and in a smarter way. Many of the various parts of the Council of Europe have been charged with cuts of 10 to 15 percent. However, there are some of which I am very concerned about, and that is that youth activities will be cut by 100%. It therefore closes the part of the Council of Europe that is working on youth and where there is a Council that interacts with the Council of Ministers. It's absolutely devastating, because the youth business has been working on very good things. They have worked with peace camps with Russia and Ukraine, they have run 259 different activities in youth centres located in Budapest and Strasbourg and they have had 142 human rights and democracy projects only in 2018. It is clear that youth activities must also shoulder their responsibilities in this and perhaps also take cuts of 10 to 15%. But to do as the proposal stands now from the Secretary-General and to dismantle it here and replace it with some kind of voluntary organisation, we Social Democrats believe, is absolutely devastating. For what is it that will build Europe's future if not our youth? If there is something we should invest in and perhaps even protect and protect from cuts, it is our young people. We all know that here. Should the Council of Europe have a future and should we be able to read about the Council of Europe when it celebrates 80, 90, 100 or perhaps 200 years, it is through the young people we have to go. I call on all of us here and also the Secretary-General and the Council of Ministers of the Council of Europe to reconsider this issue. Then, of course, there are things that must be done differently in youth activities, but the proposal now before us to close down would be devastating. The young people here in Sweden, for example through LSU, have been very clear about this.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1393	Madam President, I would like When we talk about the activities of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Pace, we have to ask ourselves: what does Europe mean to each of us? I believe that there are as many answers as there are inhabitants of the 47 Member States of the Council of Europe. Europe has many dimensions – geographical, political, cultural, economic and so on. Often Europe is likened to concentric circles where the largest circle is the Council of Europe, followed by the EU, the Schengen area and the euro zone. The largest circle contains our common European values, that is, the values that the Council of Europe upholds: democracy, human rights and the rule of law. Those of us representing the 830 million inhabitants of the Member States meet during four sessions a year to work for peace, freedom and development through dialogue and cooperation. At least that should be the case. Unfortunately, for some years now, the debate in this House has been increasingly concerned with how several Member States do not protect these fundamentals: democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Countries such as Turkey, Azerbaijan, Russia and Hungary have demonstrated in both words and deeds that they do not share the fundamental values of the Council of Europe. This has undeniably damaged the credibility of the organisation as the main representative and defender of human rights. Madam President, I would like Russia's annexation of Crimea and subsequent sanctions by Pace was one of the major issues that marked the work of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in 2018. As is well known, following the imposition of sanctions, Russia chose not to participate in the work of the Assembly. Since 2017, it has not paid its membership fee to the Council of Europe. The non-payment from Russia amounts to EUR 20 million per year. This has led to a substantial deficit in the Council of Europe's budget, creating a blackmail situation. Among other things, the Russian Duma has called for all provisions of the Rules of Procedure to be deleted which could lead to the non-accreditation of a delegation or the sanctioning of national delegations. The opinion of the Swedish delegation on this issue has been crystal clear: the principles of the Council of Europe are not for sale. Acts contrary to conventions signed by Russia must be sanctioned. Russia would like to create the image that its delegation is excluded from work. That is not the case. The delegation may not vote but may take part in the debate. It is wrong to lift the sanctions without Russia having withdrawn its troops. It is not possible to annex Crimea and support paramilitary groups in eastern Ukraine and then continue to participate in the work of the Assembly as if nothing had happened. Every day people are killed in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions. The conflict has so far claimed over 10 000 lives. Children and old people are in dire need. This disgusting war that is going on here, in Europe, must end. Madam President, I would like The view of Russia's participation in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly divides the Assembly into two parts, and for this reason the Assembly was unable to agree on the amendments proposed by an ad hoc committee to the Rules of Procedure. Nevertheless, in December 2018, it was decided that the Assembly would no longer be able to withdraw from delegations the right to vote in the election of Secretary-General, Judges and Human Rights Commissions. However, this concession did not lead Russia to present a delegation or to pay its debts to the Council of Europe. This shows that concessions to totalitarian regimes rarely lead to a solution to the problems. Russia continues with its provocations and violations of the Minsk Agreement. President Putin decree granting citizens of Donetsk and Luhansk regions the right to a simplified application for Russian citizenship undermines Ukraine's sovereignty. This decision, taken shortly after the presidential elections in Ukraine, shows only Russia's intention to destabilise Ukraine and escalate the conflict. Madam President, I would like The report we are debating today is the report on last year's activities in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The report shows that the Swedish delegation has been very active in the work of the Assembly. We are at the top in terms of participation in votes and debates. We create opinion for our Swedish approach in an international context where many Member States have not come as far as Sweden in its view of human rights. One example is the report "Private life and family life: equal rights regardless of sexual orientation", written by Jonas Gunnarsson, Chairman of the delegation at the time. The adoption of the resolution was a step forward in terms of human rights, a step away from discrimination and repression of rainbow families towards recognition that we humans are different and that everyone has the right to decide for themselves over their own lives. The resolution called on the Member States to ensure that legislation would enable the Union to be formalised between two people in cohabitation, partnership or marriage. How a society treats LGBT people's rights is an indicator of how that society respects fundamental human rights. At present, 16 out of 47 Member States of the Council of Europe allow same sex marriages. In 11 countries, the possibility exists for same-sex couples to register partnerships. In the rest of the Member States there are no corresponding rights. It is very sad that homosexuals in so many countries are denied the right to love and live family life with one of the same sex. In Sweden too, there are individuals who are oppressed. I am talking about young people in the suburbs who do not dare to come out with their sexual orientation because imams have decided what is allowed. Islamist hate preachers have been invited to Sweden to spread homophobia, women's hatred and anti-Semitism. Often the invitees have been organisations that receive public contributions, such as the mosque in Gävle whose infamous imam Abo Raad said in an interview with Swedish Radio that the death penalty for homosexuals can be right in Muslim countries. Madam President, I would like This shows that work on the defence of human rights is never over, even in countries where legislation is in place. One report that aroused many strong feelings was the report on the situation of LGBT people in the Russian Republic of Chechnya. The report gave a frightening picture of a society in which people who are supposed to be homosexuals are subjected to persecution and torture, sanctioned by the leadership of the republic. The debate was attended by five Swedish members who strongly condemned this cleansing and underlined Russia's and President Putin's responsibility for legitimising President Kadyrov's actions. Among other things, the antigay propaganda law was introduced in Russia in 2013. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank my colleagues who were members of the Swedish delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in 2018 for their work. Seven of them have left the delegation. Four have also left Parliament. But what they have accomplished in their respective committees and in the congregation is not forgotten. I would also like to thank Petra Sjöström and Anna-Sara-Sara Hultgård Czernich at the Parliament's International Office for their invaluable support in our work. Finally, I support the proposal in the report.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1409	Madam President, I would like Another year has passed since Parliament last discussed the activities of the Council of Europe and its parliamentary assembly. During our sessions this year, we have debated a number of important issues such as migration and refugee policy, the fight against terrorism, the threat to journalists and the importance of free media. We have also debated the situation of human rights defenders and the limited scope for NGOs. Unfortunately, it has become worse, even in several of the 47 member states of the Assembly. That is something we must make sure to improve. Current and urgent debates have been held on the future of the Council of Europe, Russia's annexation, or what I would call occupation, of Crimea, the human rights situation in Turkey, the war in Syria, the situation on the Mediterranean and, of course, the recurring Israel – Palestine conflict. We have discussed the issue of corruption and Russia's participation, or rather lack of participation, in the Assembly and a long other matter. In other words, there is no doubt that much is happening in the Council of Europe. It is difficult for us Swedish parliamentarians to cover everything. But we've been a very active delegation. I'm proud of that. Thanks to the Council of Europe, we have been able to build new networks and get to know parliamentarians from almost all of Europe and also from other parts of the world. We have had the opportunity to meet interest organisations and experts who have shared their experiences and expertise at various seminars and individual meetings. We therefore see in black and white how important this House is. At the same time, unfortunately, we have also seen its backs. The discussion on the funding of the Assembly after Russia has refused and stopped paying its share shows the importance of streamlining the Council of Europe. Making the work of the Council of Europe more efficient would nevertheless be necessary in view of the low presence of Members in both chamber sittings and committee meetings. But here, too, we are an example of our high presence. The discussion on Russia has highlighted another important aspect of the purpose of this intergovernmental cooperation: what can we really expect from the Member States? The least we should expect is to meet the criteria for being part of this fine cooperation. All Member States must strive to be better and not worse. Yet we see country after country becoming just worse with regard to all the fundamental values that we are fighting for. It is an extremely sad development that we must do what we can to turn around. We Europeans must defend the foundations of the Council of Europe. I am therefore pleased that the Assembly has taken such a tough and principled stance against Russia's totally unacceptable behaviour, including in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. What if the Assembly had shown the same impetus in the criticism of Turkey, which has violated international law by entering its neighbours and has engaged in mass arrests of politically active regime critics? In Turkey, we have had to see continued widespread state repression, harassment and dismissal of civil servants. The country has thus put its increasingly authoritarian and undemocratic governance on hold. Madam President, I would like During the year, the Swedish delegation has also agreed on a wide range of issues. A few examples were relevant in 2018, but we voted on them only during the January session this year. For example, all present Swedish members could be united in the view that Europe is in great need of a Magnitsky law that punishes people who have committed human rights violations – regardless of their nationality. Targeted Magnitsky sanctions are considered very effective precisely because they punish the few people responsible for certain crimes while ordinary citizens are not affected. A number of countries have taken the lead in implementing this before the Council of Europe recommendation. Unfortunately, Sweden has not done so. What if the same consensus that the Swedish delegation has shown in the Council of Europe would appear here in Sweden in a few weeks' time when proposals for precisely Magnitsky sanctions will be dealt with in this House? I hope that we can join forces in following up our common position in the Council of Europe and, once and for all, implement that legislation in Sweden, as we have jointly proposed there. Madam President, I would like Another important issue where all participating Swedish members of the delegation except from the Left Party have agreed is the view on the Cairo Declaration and how this Sharia Declaration is, or rather not, in line with the European Convention on Human Rights. As you know, we Swedish democrats regard the Cairo Declaration as a direct threat to the free world and the fundamental values that we have in the European Convention. The two are in no way compatible with each other, as the Council of Europe, fortunately, has also made clear. Cooperation across national and party borders, as we often see in the Council of Europe, is also something I want to raise. It strengthens an assembly that works with democracy, human rights and the rule of law. As a Conservative in the Council of Europe, I can sign motions with liberals and socialists, and that is not really surprising. The issues we are dealing with in the Council of Europe concern subjects where we often have the same objectives. We have seen that in many cases we also have the same view of how to achieve the goal. Madam President, I would like This is a strength, and it is something I had hoped we could learn more from here in Sweden. In conclusion, like Mr Boriana, I would like to thank the other members of the Swedish delegation. In 2018, 55 resolutions and 26 recommendations were adopted in the Council of Europe. That's a lot. As usual, our delegation has been a very active group, and we have been involved in the work of the Assembly in an exemplary manner. With this, I would like to say that I look forward to our continued work together. I thank you for this time, and I would also like to thank previous Members.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1427	Madam President, I would like Tomorrow, 9 May, we celebrate Europe Day. On 5 May, we celebrated the beginning of what is now the European Union, namely the formation of the Council of Europe. It was then 70 years since the agreement was signed in London. They were inspired by Winston Churchill and his work on the ruins of World War II to unite Europe. Thus, since 1949, 70 years have passed since the agreement was signed, almost on the day of peace. At that time, ten European states had decided to form the Council of Europe. Today there are 47 Member States with more than 800 million inhabitants. Member States shall be democratic countries. They must respect human rights and have functioning legal systems. The ECHR shall be ratified by the European Court of Human Rights as the ultimate judge of the Convention's content. There shall be no death penalty. Conflicts would be resolved at the negotiating table. Justice as a functioning justice system for all citizens would resolve conflicts between people. That is how we saw developments – until Russia acted and took parts of Georgia's territory and then parts of Ukraine's territory by military means, and still occupies them. It is, of course, a very tragic development that we have seen. After the fall of the Berlin Wall, we welcomed countries that had really lived under the yoke of Communism and the Soviet Union's repression of people, thoughts and words. It was a oppression of freedom and justice. We welcomed, hoped for and wanted to work for everyone to create a common legal basis for Europe's citizens through the Council of Europe on the basis of the European Convention. However, we have seen how this has eroded, Madam President. Hungary was the first to join as a Member State in 1990. Montenegro is the most recent country that has come along. Since the 1990s and the fall of the Berlin Wall, we have had 23 new members. It is about everyone except Belarus, Kosovo and the Vatican state. The parliamentary assembly to which I have been privileged to belong for eleven years is an advisory assembly. However, we are also reviewers and have reviewed developments with the help of the Commissioner for Human Rights and his reports and work. This has also been done with the help of the many expert bodies that are part of the advantage of the Council of Europe. They base conventions and build common bases followed up by expert bodies. In this way, we can examine how we, as Member States, live up to our commitments and what we have signed. Madam President, I would like Unlike many others, the Parliamentary Assembly is also a power assembly. The Parliamentary Assembly appoints judges to the European Court of Human Rights, which ultimately examines the position of human rights in the Member States. We have also had the opportunity to comply with human rights, democracy and the rule of law and can impose sanctions if someone violates the commitments made by a Member State when it became a member. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is therefore not a consensus body in which any state may have the right of veto. This has annoyed several of the Member States, Madam President. This can be seen not least in developments over the last ten years. Russia is clearly annoyed by the sanctions imposed in 2014 following the annexation of Crimea and the war that is taking place. Russia is annoyed as we are not backing up is the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe saying that if nothing changes on the ground nothing changes in the sanction system. They want to be able to break rules and conventions without consequences. That has been done, and it is more than that. There are commitments to send invitations to election monitoring. You haven't done that. It is committed to ensuring access to the entire territory to monitor, monitor and monitor. Monitors have not been allowed in, and there is no access to Chechnya, which we all know is a black hole for human rights. Nevertheless, the Committee of Ministers has not clearly taken them into its ear. As I said, we have seen how this has eroded in the past. Already in 2013 I had a report on Hungary. It called for the opening of the surveillance of Hungary because of the illiberal developments we could see and the threats to the rule of law, democracy and civil society. What we could also see, and which has characterised the last few years, are corruption scandals. They've come with us into our system. We haven't been equipped to face them. For a long time we have been talking about the caviarplomatin from Azerbaijan, and it has been visible. We have had a task to clear, as we in the Parliamentary Assembly have done in recent years. It hasn't been easy, and I don't want to say it's over. However, it has been important cleaning work. Corruption is the instrument used by the illiberal forces as lubricants to be able to steer alongside the system. We have seen this. Madam President, I would like There are several Trojan horses in the system that it is important to see. I have already touched on Russia. I have mentioned Azerbaijan. We also have Turkey, which is now acting clearly. This can be seen not least by the demand for re-election in Istanbul after a election that was deemed fair and fair. It is quite clear that Turkey is now heading in the wrong direction. It was good that during 2018 we were able to open up for monitoring. As a result, the Turkish delegation left the negotiations in principle and was prepared to do as the Russian delegation did and say that you are doing this, then we are going. And they did as the Russian delegation did. They drew in the money they had previously provided to increase their influence. That money was withdrawn. Now it is up to the Parliamentary Assembly and to all of us to consider whether we should be blackmailed or whether we should be prepared to take the fight. It will be important for those of us who want to stand up for democracy, the rule of law and human rights. Then it is a question of seeing the mandate of the Council of Europe. It's not doing everything and being a club for everyone. It is to focus on the central tasks, which are human rights, democracy and the functioning of the rule of law in our Europe. If we succeed in this task, we will be able to celebrate the 100th anniversary. If we fail, the Council of Europe will be eroded. I hope that my colleagues will take the fight in the future and that we from the Swedish Parliament will do so. With that, Madam President, I would like to thank my former colleagues in the 2018 delegation. I would like to thank the delegation leader, who is not here. Vice is here in the form of Boriana Åberg. I would also like to thank the secretariat and wish you every success in the fight ahead. It is important, Madam President. I support the proposal.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1447	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I was a member of the Swedish delegation during the last parliamentary term, which the report mainly concerns. The committee rightly notes that work in the Council of Europe in 2018 has focused on the increasing challenges of human rights in the Member States. Unfortunately, we note that in several European countries there is a completely wrong direction in terms of respect for human rights, freedom of organisation and the media and the rights of women and LGBT people. Particularly worrying are developments in countries such as Russia, Turkey, Hungary, Romania, Azerbaijan and Poland. At a time when Europe is facing several major challenges with increased friction and tensions, it becomes particularly important for Sweden to strengthen its commitment to the Council of Europe and to step up work on the core values of the Council of Europe: safeguarding human rights, the rule of law and democratic governance. After all, the Council of Europe is the only intergovernmental body in which virtually all European countries are involved and thus constitutes an important platform for dialogue, exchange and cooperation. I also agree with Ola Möller that we must be better at bringing the work of the Council of Europe here in Sweden and in our own Parliament. Madam President, I would like One issue that has long been of particular concern to the Council of Europe is the view of Russia's participation. The Council of Europe has always been restrictive in terms of sanctions. I think that's good. However, as far as Russia is concerned, the Swedish delegation is in complete agreement that it was right to impose sanctions whereby the Russian delegation was deprived of its right to vote in the Parliamentary Assembly. This is because of the serious violations of international law committed and still committed by Russia against another Member State by the annexation of Crimea and the continuing aggression in eastern Ukraine. Work is now under way to review the regulatory framework. There is a risk that sanctions will be more difficult to implement in the future, which could lead to Russia regaining its right to vote without any movement on the substance of the matter. If that happens, it is something I deeply regret. Another issue that has taken much of the Council of Europe's time is the question of corruption. Following corruption charges against certain persons within the Council of Europe, it was decided to set up an independent external investigation, involving Elisabet Fura from Sweden. It is gratifying that the Swedish delegation was very active in bringing the investigation into being. The report was presented in April 2018. It was concluded, among other things, that corruption related to Azerbaijan had occurred in some cases. It is now important that anti-corruption work continues in the Council of Europe and that the report is continuously followed up. The Council of Europe must, of course, be completely free from corruption. It is a crucial issue of trust, which is particularly important for an organisation such as the Council of Europe. Madam President, I would like The Council of Europe discussed and adopted a large number of resolutions on important issues, such as gender equality, migration and refugees, the media, the Palestinian-Israel peace process and sport, language and culture. It is impossible to go into all these resolutions, but I would like to take this opportunity to highlight some. The issue of freedom of the media and the opportunity for journalists to operate has been raised on several occasions, but also issues relating to the new challenges posed by digitalisation for good and bad. Questions about how to respond to fake news and hate and threats online and about journalists' working conditions in the new digital environment have been highlighted. One country that has been severely criticised for restrictions on media freedom is Turkey, a country where a very large number of journalists are imprisoned. However, the ability of journalists to operate is also limited in other European countries, such as Azerbaijan, Hungary and Russia, where independent journalists are becoming increasingly difficult to operate. Unfortunately, we see no improvement in Turkey in terms of respect for human rights, but rather the opposite, as confirmed by a report that came in January this year. The Kurdish population is particularly vulnerable. Turkey continues to attack Kurds both inside and outside its borders. The Left party HDP has been particularly hard hit, including by the fact that a large number of its democratically elected leaders at different levels are in prison. Against this background, it is a very good thing that the Parliamentary Assembly is fully pursuing the monitoring procedure with regard to Turkey. Another resolution that I would like to draw attention to is that of the persecutions and the very gross abuse of LGBT people in Chechnya. Russia was again urged to begin an impartial and effective investigation into the persecutions. Unfortunately, we can see that Chechnya is not the only country in Europe where LGBT people are subjected to abuse and persecution. It is important that the Council of Europe continues to engage in and follow issues related to the situation and rights of LGBT people. Another resolution that I would like to highlight is that of new restrictions on NGOs activities in the Member States of the Council of Europe. An attack on civil society is an attack on democracy, and it is deeply regrettable that a number of Member States limited the possibility for civil society organisations to operate. The situation is particularly serious again in Turkey, where hundreds of organisations have been shut down. However, the situation of civil society is also worrying in countries such as Poland, Hungary, Russia, Romania and Azerbaijan. Finally, I would like to mention two important resolutions in which the Swedish delegation was very active. These are the resolutions calling on the Member States to act vigorously against child marriage and forced marriage. It is gratifying that the Council of Europe raised and strengthened its position on these important issues. I think it is of the utmost importance that the issue of gender equality continues to be at the heart of the work of the Council of Europe. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank the services, the secretariat and the Members for their good cooperation in the delegation during the last parliamentary term. I would also like to wish you, in the new delegation, great success in your continued important work in the Council of Europe.
i-48a70cbc0e441d18-1466	Madam President, I would like We are discussing the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe was founded in 1949 and has since been a key player in creating a common European foundation of values based on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. One of the most important tasks is to establish close cooperation between the Member States to protect human rights and democracy. Sweden was one of the founders when the statutes of the Council of Europe were signed, and after the fall of the Berlin Wall, the number of members has doubled. The Council of Europe now has 47 Member States. The Parliamentary Assembly has 324 members and an equal number of alternates. In order to contribute to democratic development in other countries, the Council of Europe builds relations with more countries in the neighbourhood through partner status with a right of presence. Madam President, I would like The Council of Europe works closely with the European Parliament, the UN General Assembly and many other bodies such as the OSSE, UNHCR, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, IPU, the Nordic Council and others. Membership of the Council of Europe commits and contributes to strengthening the legal institutions and promoting the safeguarding of human rights and freedoms in the Member States. Madam President, I would like Over the past few years, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has been actively promoting greater respect for human rights in the Member States and debating the increased challenges of human rights in some Member States. Issues debated and dealt with in the committees include migration and refugees, the fight against terrorism, corruption, the threat to journalists and the free media, Russia's annexation of Crimea, the human rights situation in Turkey, the war in Syria, terrorist financing and the fight against terrorism, and the future of the Council of Europe. Madam President, I would like The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is the main pillar of the Council of Europe. The fact that the Council's 47 Member States, including all EU Member States, have ratified the Convention is a major democratic achievement. Compliance with the Convention and monitoring by the European Court of Human Rights with its 47 judges from all Member States is of great importance for the Member States to fulfil their commitments. Madam President, I would like In recent years, some Member States have not complied with the commitments contained in the Council of Europe's Statutes or in the European Convention on Human Rights. This is regrettable. A continuing deterioration of human rights in some countries is a fact, and the fact that some Member States are not meeting their commitments is not acceptable. Human rights defenders and free media are being questioned. Citizens are detained because of political commitment, civil society organisations live under constant threat and journalists are imprisoned. This development should be countered and the Council of Europe should actively promote greater respect for human dignity and human rights and freedoms. Madam President, I would like A unified European Council that adheres to its principles and lives up to its fundamental values can contribute to better development worldwide. It is a major responsibility of its Member States and cooperation organisations to strengthen democracy and promote transparency, the principles of the rule of law and human rights and, not least, to combat terrorism and racism. Madam President, I would like Intolerance and Islamic terrorism have increased over the last decade. The Islamic terrorist organisations which expel people from their homelands and commit genocide and crimes against humanity should be stopped and prosecuted and all radicalisation combated. Terrorism has hit many Member States in recent years, with thousands killed and injured. Sweden has suffered two terrorist acts, and we now have an ongoing trial against three terrorists accused of planning terrorist acts in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Now that the war in Syria is coming to an end, the terrorist group of Islamic state supporters will continue with acts of terror to spread their hateful propaganda. Last time we witnessed this on Easter Day, when over 250 believing Christian persons were killed and over 500 injured in coordinated attacks on churches and hotels in Sri Lanka. Madam President, I would like Anti - Semitism and intolerance are increasing, and the right - wing forces are gaining more and more space in decision - making congregations. This is a development that the Council of Europe should counteract. In our country too, citizens are subject to discrimination and abuse. During the last decade in Malmö, many Jews have been harassed, and they feel insecure and leave the city – a development that is frightening and should be vigorously countered. This is a major challenge that the Council of Europe should address and prioritise in its future work to combat all the evil forces that want to destabilise our open societies. Madam President, I would like The Swedish members are active in the various activities of the Assembly and contribute significantly to sessions, committee work and election observations. The work of the Council of Europe is important and necessary to contribute to peace, freedom, democratic development and sustainable societies with respect for human rights.
