i-8119e264b4443733-0	Mr. Old President! We Swedish democrats have asked for the debate, and our main aim is to clarify how the alliance parties – the cracked Alliance – will relate to the documents of the Defence Committee, the report and the proposed financial efforts. The current refusal of the divided Alliance to sign the Defence Committee's report has created some uncertainty, at least in the Swedish Armed Forces and among the officers I know. What's the deal? Is it going to go ahead or not? Will the proposed funds be invested? This uncertainty lies with the Swedish Armed Forces, other authorities and also outside Sweden's borders. Mr. Old President! In the hope of clarifying the position of the parties, we have called for this debate.
i-8119e264b4443733-4	Mr. Old President! On 14 May, I received the Defence Committee's final report, Mr Värnkraft. The report is the end of the solid work of all those involved, as I see it. The secretariat has done a fantastic job during the preparatory work, and the reports I have received indicate that there has been a constructive willingness to reach common solutions. The four bourgeois parties chose not to sign the preparation report. It is not for me to review other parties on this point, but I leave it to the public and others to judge what they consider to be a reasonable way of acting. Today, however, there is broad agreement among the parliamentary parties on the security policy analysis, on the main features of the development of total defence, the forthcoming period of defence decision-making and on the need to continue to strengthen military capabilities. I am pleased because this has not always been the case. There is now a consensus on both the security policy analysis and the need to strengthen our military capabilities. The government will be prepared to allocate increased funds and financial resources to the Swedish Armed Forces. This means that I also have good hopes that we will reach a broad defence agreement. The Government has the ambition to present a defence policy proposal in 2020. In order to have as full proposals as possible, the Government will shortly decide on assignments to the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration and other defence-related authorities to analyse the preparation's proposals and report its financial consequences and feasibility. It is about organisation, feasibility, timeframes, balance army-marine flights and the final economy. The defence committee itself states in its report that it cannot be excluded that unforeseen circumstances may arise that affect the analysis and proposals of the defence committee. The development after the 2015 defense decision makes the preparation right in that conclusion. It is absolutely essential that the relevant authorities should be able to express their views on the proposals of the preparatory work before establishing the financial framework for the coming period. As Minister of Defence, it is my responsibility that the bill presented to Parliament should be based on as deep and accurate a basis as possible. I have too much experience of how things can go when there are shortcomings when political decisions are to be taken. The Swedish Financial Control Agency and Statskontoret have worked with financial control in the Swedish Armed Forces, and the Swedish Armed Forces are now doing a good job following up on these reports. We must also avoid having a situation of recurrent renegotiations during the current defence-oriented period of the original defence decision. The framework laid down by Parliament is also the one that must apply. We are now living in a completely new development in security policy, compared to the situation some ten years ago. We have a history where Russia has behaved aggressively against Georgia, it annexed Crimea in 2014, which is a direct violation of international law, and there is an ongoing conflict in Eastern Ukraine. It is easy to note that there is a change in the security policy situation which has deteriorated over time. It goes without saying that we must draw defence policy conclusions from the changed security policy situation. It is a comprehensive process to prepare a defence decision. During the period 2016 – 2020 the level has increased by just under 15 billion compared to when I took office. We are talking about three decisions between 2016 and 2020, where we will contribute SEK 35 billion. We must continue to increase military capabilities. That is the government's ambition.
i-8119e264b4443733-13	Mr. Old President! Some time ago, the Swedish Defence Committee presented its final report. Four parties signed this. Four other parties chose to abstain. This may well be described as a paradox! M, C, KD and L chose not to participate because they supported conclusions, proposals for decisions and financial consequences. The others had expressed doubts in various ways. All are listed in four annexes. They are not part of the final report, but they are clear political positions. The Green Party says that defence budget support may need to increase at a lower rate. On the other hand, the left-wing party believes that the increase proposed by the preparation of 84 billion is too large. The Social Democrats want to divide the conclusions of the preparation and leave the determination of the exact level of political negotiations beyond preparation, i.e. that it needs to be made clear what are the main priorities through a number of economic ambition levels in the pake tform. And SD is involved in talking about the need for 2 percent, but then the party curiously has some own reflections on what is described as ANC-sanctioned persecution of boer in South Africa. Can a paradox be more clearly illustrated? S, SD, V and MP side by side. They don't agree on the way forward, but they have the signatures behind the Defense Committee's report. M, C, KD and L clearly support conclusions and the need for an economy of at least 84 billion, or 1.5% of GDP, to 2025. So the warmest supporters of the final report are those who have not signed it. Mr. Old President! For the Moderates, it's all about a whole. First, a safety policy analysis is carried out. It points to a deterioration in the position around the Baltic Sea. An armed attack on Sweden cannot be ruled out. It requires action. It therefore proposes a defence policy approach involving both the withdrawal of previously lost capabilities and preparations for future reinforcements. It's everything from a third brigade to new equipment and a focus on human resources. In the past, the interim report on Resistance has indicated what is needed to rebuild a total defence. This requires funding. With at least 84 billion – 1.5 per cent of GDP – to 2025 and then up to 2 per cent, it is possible to realise and implement what is proposed. If you want to do something less or substantially less, it obviously requires lower supplements. So the questions in this debate are basically quite simple but deeply serious if you take the defence of Sweden seriously. What in the report is it that the Left Party and the Green Party do not want to pay for? And what level are the Social Democrats seeking? What does the party want to delete if it is not 1.5 percent of the bnp by 2025? What on the army side? What in the air? What in the Navy? To say nothing but to hold power may also be described as a paradox!
i-8119e264b4443733-20	Mr. Old President! I would like to mention the excellent President, Björn von Sydow, who has led the work in a commendable way and guided us through many inconveniences in a skilful way, as well as Tommy Åkesson, who has invaluable knowledge of budget estimates. I would like to mention them in particular – plus, of course, all the others who have been involved in this. As I said at the outset, the aim is to clarify the fact that the Alliance stands and says no to betting by not signing. You have a reason not to sign that you want the government to commit itself. It must be unique, because it is probably not defence preparations or governments that have committed themselves in the past. If that's the case, I'd like to know. I've been looking and found nothing, but it could be like that. So I do not want to say that it has not happened to write a commitment, but I have not seen it. But now you have the chance. Come up here now in the speaker's chair, the Members of the Alliance, and commit yourselves to following what this document says about the financial effort! If you don't, you'll lose the little credibility you have left. Now's your chance. Bet both the money required as evidenced by Resistance and what is shown in the last book, as it well becomes, called Värnkraft. Now you have an excellent opportunity. All parties have said they are very satisfied. To then, when you are satisfied with a report, have the only reason not to sign that the government does not commit to follow this is completely incomprehensible to me. There is a clear majority in this House to pursue this within the framework of the expenditure we have. In order to remove the uncertainty that the Moderates and Wallmark and others have created here, Mr. President of the Age, with the Armed Forces and beyond the borders of the country, you can at least take the opportunity today, before cameras, to commit yourselves because you demand it from the Social Democrats. I have not heard a single Member say that. Wallmark didn't take the chance, but there'll be another round here, Mr. Old President, so it'll be exciting to hear if you commit to following this. Mr. Old President! Mr Wallmark noted that we included this on Boer in South Africa. The fact that the Moderates do not care at all about what is happening to the Bos in South Africa is known for a long time, but when there is a chapter in the document dealing with Africa, I think it is appropriate to address this.
i-8119e264b4443733-26	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, honourable Members and the Minister. When one hears the Swedish Democrat present the purpose of this requested debate, the picture of how extremely uncertain the situation surrounding the conditions is for a future well-founded defence-oriented decision. The Swedish Democrats do not even mention once that they asked the Social Democrats what economic objectives they actually have. It has been the main reason throughout the final phase for us in the negotiations to be able to get a message from the Social Democrats. In debate after debate on the defence economy and the direction that we so badly need to develop our defence in terms of the total defence aspect, but not least the military, we in the Center Party have asked for what the Social Democrats and the government want to achieve in the next defence-oriented decision. Roger Richtoff totally misses it. I think this proves that there is no focus on achieving real, consistent decisions. The risk of us signing a report and then not seeing it implemented is very great. The focus is not on the outcome. The focus is on other things. The Center Party supports the whole of the proposals in the report. It is a very solid work in a constructive spirit for just over two years that has been carried out. It testifies to the insights we bear together in a broad sense, but also to the security situation and our common challenges. It also testifies to what needs to be done now. We have for two years a decision to reach at least the Nordic average in proportion of GDP – it is increasing. Take into account – we have discussed it many times – that our neighbours and European countries take step by step to consciously increase defence appropriations and also commit themselves to targets with a percentage of their GDP. This shows that Sweden is still standing while others are moving forward. We have contributed to several defence decisions in recent years that have been added to the decision we took almost four years ago in this House. It has been important, but more needs to be done. There are a great many good proposals in this report, but there is no clear link between it and the economic conditions. I think today's debate needs to be about us being able to get a message from the group of parties that have signed up to the report if we will commit to this in future budget negotiations and future orientation decisions on the defence and security policy of the future.
i-8119e264b4443733-31	Mr. Old President! Participating in the work of the Defence Committee means many hours of meetings, travel and intensive discussions. We have now presented two reports, Resistance and Värnkraft. The Left Party shares the views of the preparatory work in several areas, but on some crucial issues we disagree. We need a modern, strong total defence with a stronger civil defence and a modern military defence with popular roots that can help create a more robust society and face the various threats we face: security policy threats where we must include cyber threats, terrorism, extremism and, above all, new threats that have arisen in the wake of the climate crisis. I agree with the direction of preparation in relation to the Swedish defence. In addition to strengthening military service, war units must be expanded, and we see the need to create three brigades and a half brigade. The military defense needs more resources. However, I believe that the proposed EUR 84 billion is an excessive increase over the period and that the development of the Armed Forces must take place over a longer period of time. A strengthened total defence is necessary to maintain the credibility of our military alliance freedom. Although we believe that it is unlikely that a military attack would be directed against Sweden as an individual country, we must of course be prepared. We see that the security policy situation in Europe and globally has changed and deteriorated. We are concerned about Russia's armament, the illegal annexation of Crimea and the destabilisation policy in Ukraine. We are also concerned about NATO's armament and militarisation of the EU. It is a development which means that Europe is once again in a dangerous armament spiral. Mr. Old President! Sweden must do its utmost to halt this development and focus its international efforts on finding peaceful solutions such as diplomacy, inter-people exchanges and more active disarmament work, especially in the field of nuclear weapons. For such work to be effective and credible, we must strengthen our military freedom of alliance. I do not agree with the defence committee's view on cooperation with NATO. Swedish military alliance freedom has contributed to the fact that generation after generation has been able to live in peace in Sweden. NATO has nuclear weapons as its supporting doctrine and is led by a nation that has a very unpredictable president in Donald Trump. With increased proximity to NATO, Sweden risks being drawn into devastating wars and conflicts. The Left Party believes that a military non-aligned foreign policy is crucial to Sweden's freedom of action as an independent actor at a time when democratic rights and human rights are being violated more and more frequently.
i-8119e264b4443733-38	Mr. Old President! Sweden is in an increasingly tough environment. Examples of this are the war that is currently taking place in Ukraine. There, ten people are killed every month. We have seen it since the war in Georgia. Sweden has a good but far too small defence given the security policy threats we face. Two and a half years ago, the work of the Defence Committee was resumed. The mission we received from the Minister for Defence was to look at and analyse the world situation and suggest what a defence force should look like in 2021 – 2025. But the same was true of the economy. It is a very thorough work that has been carried out under good leadership by Chairman Björn von Sydow and Secretary General Tommy Åkesson. The whole work has been done very well. After a year, we presented the first report on civil defence. Just recently, we presented the final report, Mrs Värnkraft, which I am now showing to the Members of this House. That is our proposal. The report shows precisely the proposals that need to be implemented and which are absolutely necessary in terms of both the army, the air force and the marines in order for us to be able to defend ourselves. We point to what is required not only by 2025, Mr President of the Age, but also by 2030. The problem that arose was when, by Christmas, we were basically finished with what military defence should look like and the question where the Social Democrats stand arose. Where's the government? That's the question we never got an answer to. If the government follows the suggestion in this excellent report, it will go through. If the financial framework is maintained, there will be a majority. However, the report contains a very strange closing word from the Social Democrats which shows that they do not want an economic settlement. Mr. Old President! It's as stupid as trying to build a house – to say, "We should have that house – but then don't want to make up for the money." I think it's hard to build a house like that. But it's impossible to build a defense if you don't agree on the money. This report says that 1.5 percent of GDP is needed, equivalent to 84 billion. 1.6 civil defence will be required. We need answers from the Secretary of Defense today. Where do the Social Democrats stand on this issue?
i-8119e264b4443733-46	Mr. Old President! Let me begin by saying that I do not quite understand Roger Richtoff's reasoning. All bourgeois parties have committed themselves, in full publicity, to both 1.5 per cent of Svenska Dagbladet's debates and the proposals contained in the report Värnkraft. I am prepared to repeat it again here today. The reason we did not sign up was precisely because we wanted to safeguard the report and its proposals in their entirety. Without the economy, the report is of little value. Mr. Old President! For 16 months, 12 members from eight parties, together with senior officials from the ministries and authorities and a fairly large investigation office, have been working hard with this 355-page report. In total, there are 440 hours of meeting time. Throughout this working time it has been known that there was at the bottom an assumption of 1.5% of bnp by 2025. It's been in the paper, and it's been broadcast on TV and radio. I would say that every single one, from the generals on Lidingövägen 24 to the last home soldier in Kronoberg, has known about this. I therefore conclude that our Minister for Defence has also been under-informed of this fact. My question to Peter Hultqvist today is: why did he say nothing about not being prepared to back up this figure? Why didn't he tell us that the defense committee would at best be a seminar exercise, that the negotiations would then take place at the Ministry of Defence this autumn? And who is it Peter Hultqvist wants to negotiate with? Mr. Old President! The Secretary of Defense's actions have devalued the Defense Committee. It no longer has the same weight as it had in the defence policy in Sweden for decades. Last year, Finland invested 1.5 per cent of GDP in defence. In 2021 you pass 2 percent. Norway is 1.6 percent. Denmark will reach 1.5% in 2022. All Baltic States and Poland are already over 2% of GDP. And now I am talking about NATO members who can also rely on collective security. When the government is not prepared to commit to 1.5 percent in the current world situation, what signal does it send?
i-8119e264b4443733-53	Mr. Old President! Let me first make it clear that the Green Party is behind most of the Defence Committee's report. As I understand it, the work has been carried out in a very good spirit. We need broad-based decisions on security and defence policy issues. It is therefore very sad that in the final stage the bourgeois parties chose to defect. It goes without saying to me that the funds allocated within the state budget are allocated in the budgetary process. How else can those responsible for the whole take that particular responsibility? It is not sustainable for a group of policy makers to be able to decide on such a large part of the overall scope for reform in the future as we are talking about here. In addition to increased total defence, we have great needs ahead: in health care, in the environment and in school. Balancing between these areas is taking place in the budgetary process. That is the order we are working on. It was not in Anders Borg's time that a group of defence policies received free credits in the state budget. We all know that it was the opposite. The Green Party shares the view that there is a need for increased resources for total defence in the future. In a situation in which we must choose and prioritise, we believe that it is the resources of civil defence that should be given priority. We also believe that the men and women who dedicate their lives to the defence should be guaranteed good opportunities, both while working and as pensioners. We think it is equally important that we maintain the approach of a broad approach to safety all the way out.
i-8119e264b4443733-59	Mr. Old President! In a referral to the Swedish Armed Forces, FMV and other defence authorities, it is important to clarify the feasibility of the Swedish Defence Committee's proposals and see the impact on the development of capabilities, the organisation, the balance between the Arms Act and the economy. When the former Defence Minister, Karin Enström, presented her investigation requirement to the authorities, an increase in defence expenditure of 8.1 billion was calculated for 2016–2020. In a settlement, this later became 10, 2. In total, 35 have been added during the period. What she presented as a directive then developed into something completely different. With this experience at its core, I think it is important to do this great investigative work before putting down a foothold on the financial framework. No one can guarantee that exactly what is stated in the Defence Committee's report will come out when the agency has done its analysis. There may be many things that are highlighted there that are important to take into account in a bill work for the Riksdag. Once we have these papers on the table, I hope that the various parties are prepared to take part in them objectively. Our ambition is that the military capability should continue to increase but also that we should have a stable financial basis in the defence decision and that we should be prepared to finance it. When the economy changes, for example, with EUR 26 billion in lost tax revenue due to various tax cuts, it has an effect. Of course, it affects the whole picture. The whole is also affected by the enormous needs of municipalities and county councils. This is a reality that no one can run away from. This must be taken into account in the budgetary process. In addition, there will be negotiations with different parties based on a different dimension. For our part, the work of the defence committee will be the basis of the bill. No one questions this, but that is the case. But we must also try to meet all the different challenges ahead of us. It is a work that must be carried out and for which any government would have to take responsibility. That is why I and we in the government think that it is reasonable to wait for the final position on the economy until all this extensive and important work is done. Moreover, no one questions either the members of the Defence Committee or the capacity of the Registry.
i-8119e264b4443733-66	Mr. Old President! The Secretary of Defense forgot to mention one thing. He pointed out that during the previous term of office, funds were added three times in three agreements. The Moderates have participated in all of them. What he forgot is that every time the Moderates have proposed a level, it has been originally called a grant bingo from a Social Democratic point of view. I therefore listened now, Mr President-in-Office, to the various speeches. The Left Party wants to give significantly less money than 84 billion to 2025. The Green Party wants to give far less money to the defense by 2025. A number of parties say at least 84 billion – equivalent to 1.5 percent of bnp – to 2025. My simple question to the Minister for Defence is therefore: what indicative level does the Minister of Defence want to give? Throughout the electoral movement and throughout the last parliamentary term, the Social Democrats consistently ducked when it comes to talking levels. Then, however, they have accepted the levels proposed by other parties and take credit for it. What level do you have, Peter Hultqvist?
i-8119e264b4443733-69	Mr. Old President! I am pleased that we have broad agreements and that the Moderates and Centers have been involved in this. Initially, the Christian Democrats were also involved, but they chose to drop out at a later stage. What has been called grant bingo is the constant discussion in different conferences and at different meetings about levels, which you lock yourself to very hard. We, and I too, have always said that this requires such a seriosity that it must be built on thorough calculations and analyses and that it must be done in direct negotiations. I have explained how the government views the situation and what investigative work is to be carried out. We are prepared to step down on the financial framework when we have carried out all this work. This is not a yoke that has been invented to cool the atmosphere in the room, as Wallmark has said in a public context when we have put forward the funding requirement. This is about a pure, cress reality that needs to be dealt with.
i-8119e264b4443733-73	Mr. Old President! The defence committee has presented an analysis, pointed out which defence policy direction is needed and said that it will require at least 84 billion, i.e. 1.5% of GDP, by 2025. I'm asking you one very simple question, Mr. Old President. What do Peter Hultqvist and the Social Democrats think? If you do not want to set this level, you do not want to implement the final report of the Defence Committee. Then a supplementary question arises: What is to be removed? What in the package should be pushed away?
i-8119e264b4443733-75	Mr. Old President! I have already explained how we view the train order at work. Now we have the report. It must be subject to an organisational impact assessment by the authorities, development of capabilities, feasibility, balance between the Arms Act and the economy. No one today can guarantee that all the details are accurate. This job must be carried out, regardless of which government is in power, so that we get a bill based on the most stable conditions possible.
i-8119e264b4443733-76	Mr. Old President! I have a question for the Government. With the work and listening to the Minister for Defence now, I have come to the conclusion that there is much wisdom in what is being said. I also know that it was the Social Democrats who broke the trend of violent disarmament that the Alliance stood for. It's well known. As I have said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have one question: what is the timing of the consultation process? Can we have a timeframe for this?
i-8119e264b4443733-78	Mr. Old President! I assume that if we are to do this according to the plan we are working on, we could have analyses completed in November.
i-8119e264b4443733-79	Mr. Old President! Actually, I think that's reasonable. It is reasonable to do the investigation carefully and not to spoil the whole thing or cowardly thing out of which the Alliance does. I wonder why they go this way. Is it to avoid taking a stand? After all, no one has yet committed to anything. There's a reference to a newspaper. They say they're ready to commit, but do it! August, I think, would be reasonable. Then, of course, the draft budget is to be presented. We will see how much courage they have in presenting their proposals.
i-8119e264b4443733-81	Mr. Old President! To rule or not to rule may be today's question. When it comes to long-term conditions for our defence and security policy development, clear answers need to be given. The more time the Swedish Armed Forces will have to implement and realise the goals that the Riksdag will decide next year, the better I expect the result to be. Waiting and holding back and negotiating out parts of the main proposals and concerted proposals of the Swedish Defence Policy Committee means more difficult conditions. It also risks sending signals about the security situation to other countries, with security policy implications for Sweden. My question to the Minister for Defence is: which parties does the Minister intend to negotiate with, and how do you see that the Defence Committee's report is based on a whole?
i-8119e264b4443733-84	Mr. Old President! Of course, the proposal of the Defence Committee is the basis for the future proposal. Of course, the overall perspective of the preparation's proposals should also be addressed. However, it is not possible to put forward a proposal without making these investigations, which relate to organisation, ability development, feasibility, timeframe, balance between weapons and economics. Does Daniel Bäckström and the rest of you mean that we are not going to carry out that investigation work – that there is something that is not needed at all or will not add any information that is important to have when we design the bill? Or do you think that we should implement it but say in advance that we will not care what the result will be? This is part of being able to produce a bill that really will be as good as possible. It should be put into the overall perspective that is needed. That's the whole ambition.
i-8119e264b4443733-86	Mr. Old President! The Center Party is clear about the economic objective. We are prepared to budget when it comes to the defence decision. We have noted the commander-in-chief's comments linked to what was presented from the Defence Committee. This is in line with what needs to be done. We are prepared to put forward the sharp proposals in a motion to Parliament to have them tested here. I think it is extremely important to understand the parliamentary situation for the next year when it comes to both the economy and the conditions for security and defence policy. How does the Minister intend to deal with the parliamentary situation?
i-8119e264b4443733-89	Mr. Old President! I am fully aware of the parliamentary situation. But I hope that there is a will and an understanding for the investigation work, which the Swedish Armed Forces and the other authorities see as an extremely important task and a basis for a proposal. I hope you are prepared to take this on board and see what comes out there. We will invite information on the results as soon as we have received the referrals back to the Department. I hope that we can have a constructive discussion on this.
i-8119e264b4443733-90	Mr. Old President! I would like to take this opportunity to highlight an issue that is not about funding, another issue that is dealt with in the report. We are going to discuss the content of the report as a whole in this debate. It's about how we can strengthen equality in defence. We welcome the reintroduction of military service and the fact that it is gender neutral. However, this does not mean that women automatically seek military service or that discrimination and sexual harassment do not occur.
i-8119e264b4443733-92	Mr. Old President! There must be constant work through both the Recruitment Authority and the Swedish Armed Forces to create an interest among women. Increasing the proportion of women is one of the important objectives that exist, including in the case of conscripts. But it's also about bringing in more female officers of different kinds. I know that the Armed Forces' leadership is really interested in making a real effort. This is a work in progress. Harassment, bullying and other things that may occur are things that the Armed Forces have to deal with out on the units when they discover it, and I know that it is done. It is clearly highlighted in these contexts. The values we have laid down must apply to the business. In the near future, we have also discussed this with the Swedish Armed Forces' leadership.
i-8119e264b4443733-94	Mr. Old President! I thank the Minister for his reply. We have a feminist government, for which equality must be important in all areas, including defence. I therefore welcome the fact that the Minister for Defence considers gender equality issues to be important, and I look forward to putting the feminist issues even more in focus within the Armed Forces in the future.
i-8119e264b4443733-95	Mr. Old President! Our entire work is based on investing 1.5% of bnp. We have had expert authorities, the Swedish Armed Forces and MSB, who have worked very closely with us. This will fall to the ground if we do not get the funding. Sometimes Peter Hultqvist uses expressions like this and other lustres. But it's a very serious question. Thanks to the KD-M budget, we have now added what was needed and what the Armed Forces requested: 3 billion, 5 billion, 10 billion. That's what we're going to build on. We need 5 billion a year up to 2025. The fact that the Minister of Defence and the Social Democrats are not behind it creates attention and surprise in the outside world. My question is: where do the Social Democrats stand? Are you prepared to work on the basis of the funding that we have proposed?
i-8119e264b4443733-97	Mr. Old President! I have now, on a number of occasions, presented our approach to how we should tackle the economy. But I can repeat it one more time. The defense committee's report will form the basis for the bill. We will now send this to the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish Materiel Administration and other authorities. It looks at organizational effects, ability effects, feasibility, timeframes, balance between the arms team and the economy. It is a mission that I would understand that any government would carry out. That's what you do when you want to have a foundation that holds for a bill. When you look at the outcome, you have an even firmer and better basis for taking a position on the economy, because then you also have the signatures of the various Heads of Government on how they view the proposals. Then you have more solid ground under your feet. That is what this process is about. Then, of course, there is also a budgetary whole that comes into this context, as I have explained before. Clearly, it creates a problematic situation when you deduct 26 billion through tax cuts.
i-8119e264b4443733-100	Mr. Old President! The problematic situation will occur if the government chooses not to present a proposal in accordance with the proposal of the Defence Committee. This applies to both content and the economy. If the government does, I can assure you that there will be a majority in favour of it. But if this is not the case, it will not be possible. Why do the Social Democrats find it so difficult to understand that at least 1.5% of GDP is needed in 2025?
i-8119e264b4443733-102	Mr. Old President! I have to ask myself: is it difficult to understand that the investigative work that is now to be carried out must be done? This is perfectly normal and something that was also done by the previous government in connection with the Defence Committee. Is it something strange or unreasonable? If we didn't do that job, I even think we'd be in trouble in the national day. We would have almost constitutional objections to the procedure. What we are trying to do is to contribute to increased seriosity and a deeper basis for the whole proposal.
i-8119e264b4443733-103	Mr. Old President! If the red-greens of the alliance years had been able to rule and place in this House, the Swedish defence would have received 5 billion less than it actually received under the alliance governments. Peter Hultqvist himself administers the most underfunded defense decision that has been made in modern times. Over a period of five years, there has been a need to make additions on four different occasions, and yet they do not reach what the Riksdag ordered in 2015. We Liberals dropped out of the defence agreement because of this underfunding. We saw it coming, and we knew this would not work. Now the preparation during the journey of all its cost assessments is consistent with both FMV and the Swedish Armed Forces, who have representatives in the preparation. It's more order. I asked Peter Hultqvist in my speech if he knew that the adoption in the preparation was 1.5%, and I now ask the question: did he give the go-ahead to Björn von Sydow for this 1.5%?
i-8119e264b4443733-108	Mr. Old President! I can only say that since we came to the government and with the agreements we have made here in Parliament, we have broken the trend in the defence economy. We can also see that we have now improved military capabilities and that this development will continue until 2020. Next time, we will also have a defence decision that will further enhance our military capabilities. Matching with FMV and the Swedish Armed Forces is not the same as doing the extensive impact assessments that I have talked about; Widman knows that. That job is absolutely necessary if we are to have a good basis for the bill. That is why we think it is wiser to wait until all this work is done than now to go ahead and perhaps at a later stage to change and do it again. We do not think that is a good way to act. We want all the facts on the table, and then we put our foot down.
i-8119e264b4443733-111	Mr. Old President! The problem is not that FM and FMV can look at the various proposals of the Swedish Defence Committee. The problem is that the Social Democrats do not want to tell you where you stand financially. I put two very clear questions to the Secretary of Defense in my previous line. Question No 1: Did Peter Hultqvist know that there was an assumption in the preparation of 1.5 per cent? Question 2: Has Peter Hultqvist at any time given Björn von Sydow the go-ahead with regard to this adoption?
i-8119e264b4443733-112	Mr. Old President! It is not a question of FMV and the Swedish Armed Forces looking at this. It is a question of carrying out an in-depth impact assessment with a wide range of parameters. It's a huge difference to just looking at something. This is something that is of great importance to the final outcome. As far as the position of the Social Democrats is concerned, we have made it clear from the electoral movement that we are prepared to increase military capabilities. We are prepared to go into this with additional funds, and we have made it clear in the final stage of the proceedings that this is the position that we continue to have until the impact assessments are completed. Funding is crucial here.
i-8119e264b4443733-114	Mr. Old President! The Swedish Armed Forces usually take great care to emphasise the need for long-term planning conditions. The Swedish Armed Forces have also developed a perspective study that extends towards the year 2035. I think that, in essence, it would be good if we could take this approach and go that way. For this purpose, there has been a defence committee that has worked for over two years. It is a political body in which all the parties of the Riksdag sit in order to reach a broad agreement. It is not a study circle, and it is not a general discussion club, but it is precisely a body for trying to reach a broad agreement. Then the central question is: has not an economy of at least 84 billion to 2025, or 1.5% of GDP, been a fundamental prerequisite for this work, precisely to create the long-term planning conditions? The Social Democrats are drifting away from the issue all the time. I do not know whether it is the voters of the Social Democrats or of the Swedish Democrats who should be most surprised at the intimacy shown here from the pulpit when Roger Richtoff of the Swedish Democrats has defended the Social Democrats and their actions. I have to ask the question: What did the Swedish democrats really want to achieve with their signature during the final report of the Defence Committee? Roger Richtoff may have listened now in the Chamber and heard that the Left Party wants to give less money than 84 billion, that the Green Party wants to give less money than 84 billion and that the Social Democrats are talking about packages. So what have the Swedish Democrats really wanted to achieve by standing side by side with the Left Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats? Mr. Old President! There are, of course, four parties in this House who have been clear that they want to go up to 1.5% of GDP by 2025 and then on to up to 2% precisely to create long-term planning conditions. The Social Democrats say that the report should form the basis for a bill. The question to you is: do the Social Democrats believe that this basis will mean lower or substantially lower than 1.5% of GDP?
i-8119e264b4443733-122	Mr. Old President! I'd like to start in the end. What Mr Wallmark does not understand is that there is a clear majority. Are you saying that you are committing – try that word sometime, because you are asking yourself to do this – to what is in the budget? Answer yes or no! But I guess that's a far too difficult question for Wallmark to deal with.
i-8119e264b4443733-123	Mr. Old President! Thank you for another uplifting speech by Roger Richtoff. I do not know how difficult it can be when the Moderates, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals say that a prerequisite for a defence decision based on the Defence Committee's report is at least 1.5% of bnp or 84 billion. What, then, is hard to understand, Mr. Old President?
i-8119e264b4443733-125	Mr. Old President! What is difficult to understand is the credibility of Wallmark and others, who during their years completely destroyed the Swedish defence and civil defence. You destroyed the systems and everything else. You have previously not invested in the defense, but it is only in the recent years that you have begun to talk about this. Why can't you take the majority in Parliament, Mr. Old President, and say that you are committed? What's the problem? Does Wallmark not understand this?
i-8119e264b4443733-127	Mr. Old President! The Swedish Democrats are talking about credibility. There are four bourgeois parties that are clear in the direction: up to 1.5 per cent of the bnp or 84 billion. What the Swedish Democrats do is to lend their signature to the Left Party, to the Green Party and to the Social Democrats, each giving the answer that they want to give less or significantly less money to Sweden's defence in the coming years. Who doesn't understand, Mr. Old President?
i-8119e264b4443733-130	Mr. Old President! The Moderates chose to leave the Defense Committee without signing the final report on the grounds that they did not receive any guarantees regarding the funding. I wonder, Hans Wallmark, how the Moderates intend to finance the great increases to the defense that you want to carry out a when you do not want to increase the tax but lower it for those who earn the most. Where do the Moderates want to cut down? Is it at school, at the care of the elderly or at the health care centre? I believe that taxpayers have the right to have an answer to this question.
i-8119e264b4443733-133	Mr. Old President! These are the recurring questions of the collected left. Of course, we do in the usual way in budgetary work: we give priority. I would like to remind you that it is this accusation that has been repeated when we have said: 'appropriation bingo'! It was the criticism that came against our budget that was presented last autumn, which won the approval of the House and which has led to an upscaling of 3.5 and 10 billion. That is the criticism that the government has made its own. I think we can handle the budget very well, Mr. President.
i-8119e264b4443733-135	Mr. Old President! I note that I do not get any clear answers as to what savings the Moderates want to make to finance the increase in military spending. At a time when Sweden still has too long queues for health care and major shortcomings in youth psychology and social services and the municipalities' money is not enough for necessary investments in school and care for the elderly, the Moderates choose to lower taxes for the richest and prioritise large investments in defence.
i-8119e264b4443733-136	Mr. Old President! Thank you for an inspiring first-May speech. However, I would like to remind you that the government that the Left Party tolerates is the government that now has a defence policy based over the coming years on exactly the budgetary levels that the Moderates spoke of prior to the elections, ran during the elections and then entered into the draft budget that then won the House's ear. The policy that was rejected before the elections is therefore the policy that now governs Sweden in the field of defence.
i-8119e264b4443733-137	Mr. Old President! I asked for the floor for a rather simple reason, namely to ask Hans Wallmark to stop putting words into my mouth. I have not stated here or at any time at what level it will finally land. The Minister for Defence has clearly explained the process that is now before us in order to have a robust and thorough proposal and then in the forthcoming budget work. I have also pointed out something that I actually see as self-evident, namely that society also has great other needs, including in health care.
i-8119e264b4443733-139	Mr. Old President! The Environmental Party writes in its appendix to the Swedish Defence Committee's final report: Can anyone explain whether this means 1.5% of bnp, equivalent to 84 billion, or lower or substantially lower? If this means supporting the 84 billion, I am the first to admit my mistake.
i-8119e264b4443733-140	Mr. Old President! . May need to do so is an expression of a healthy attitude that we have every time we go into a budget process and set different needs against each other. To begin with by setting figures and percentages for different policy areas will be a puzzle that I cannot reconcile. What other areas should we do the same with? If we are to set percentages for prison, health care and school, we will not end up with a budget that goes together.
i-8119e264b4443733-141	Mr. Old President! As several members of the Defence Committee have testified, a basic prerequisite for the work has been an economy against 2025 on the contrary 84 billion, at least 1.5 per cent of GDP. It has been a fundamental prerequisite. If the Green Party has a different view, it is good to clarify it. I have every opportunity to ask the question, although Karolina Skog is not in a position to answer it now. I want to know what this could mean. Does this mean that you support the 84 billion, or does it mean that you want something lower or substantially lower?
i-8119e264b4443733-143	Mr. Old President! I repeat: the Moderates do not want to commit themselves. They don't want to take that word in their mouths, so no credibility. The Center doesn't want to commit. They have this as a goal, and that is not commitment. KD hasn't said anything about connection. The only people I think could do that are actually the Liberals. Why? Well, they've spent the years on defense, Mr. Old President. Liberals have a credibility in the paragraph that the others totally lack. Why did we sign the document? Because it is an excellent document. From the Swedish Democrats, we want to make it clear that this document is really good. We also commit ourselves to putting forward draft budgets in this direction. Did you hear that? We are committed here and now to putting forward proposals of up to 1.5%, or the 2% that we were previously alone in this House – year after year. When you called the Armed Forces a special interest, for the first time we had 2 percent up. Now you have the chance again to try to understand why we sign. We want to pay tribute to the document. We want to honour this good document. We also undertake to present such budgets. What's your problem? All you need to do is support our proposals, which will be in this direction. Then we have a large and clear majority in Parliament. What exactly are your problems? Is it not that you are trying to get out of this by not committing yourself, and so have you found a way out in blaming the Social Democrats? It is no surprise that the Left Party and the Green Party will not invest this money? It can only be Mr Wallmark who has not understood it before.
i-8119e264b4443733-149	Mr. Old President! This debate has been going on for about an hour, and so far the Swedish Democrats have consistently supported the Social Democrats. As I said, I do not know whether it is the voters of the Social Democrats or of the Swedish Democrats who should be most amazed at this. But then I have to put the question to the SD, which stands side by side with S with its signatures in the final report of the Defence Committee: how do you think that the Left Party wants less money, that the Green Party says that less money may be needed and that the Social Democrats have called for a package?
i-8119e264b4443733-151	Mr. Old President! Let's stand like this: we don't care! Does Mr Wallmark understand this? We don't care. We've signed a document. We undertake to present budgets in line with this. We have never thought that the Left Party and the Green Party would commit to this – but it is a surprise to the honourable Member, I can think.
i-8119e264b4443733-152	Mr. Old President! When Roger Richtoff, on behalf of the Swedish Democrats, in a debate on Sweden's defence, says, "We don't care," I think it's the most honest speech I've heard in this Parliament for many years. Actually, it doesn't require a very good line.
i-8119e264b4443733-153	Mr. Old President! Yeah, it's straight and clear. It is actually based on a question that I asked here a few months ago and which the honourable Member has probably forgotten. I then asked: have you anchored this 1.5% in the respective party leadership? Do you remember that? The Left Party and the Green Party said no. They wouldn't have. Why, then, is Mr Wallmark and others, Mr President-in-Office, surprised that they are not behind this? How hard can it be to understand?
i-8119e264b4443733-154	Mr. Old President! If Roger Richtoff becomes Sweden's Minister for Defence, I will quote what he just said in the speaker's chair: we do not care. The environment doesn't seem to have a decisive impact on who he works with. It will be very interesting this autumn when the Swedish Democrats together with the Left, the Green Party and the Social Democrats will negotiate a directional decision based on your signed report. How does Roger Richtoff see the conditions to cope with 1.5%?
i-8119e264b4443733-156	Mr. Old President! We look at it this way, and I will take it again because it is difficult to penetrate the honourable Member: we have signed the document. We commit ourselves to putting the draft budget in that direction. Did it go in now? What is the Center Party doing besides cutting down on defence budgets, year after year back in time? It is because of our participation before Christmas that the Swedish Armed Forces received 18 billion more.
i-8119e264b4443733-158	Mr. Old President! The difference between me and Roger Richtoff is that I see what results from a decision and not a dream, a text that was very good in the form of seminars in a defence preparation. It is about achieving results and seeing it come true. How will Roger Richtoff make sure to reach 1.5% in reality in the company you are in? With your day-form, it will vary who you want to turn to. How will you ensure 1.5% of GDP in practice?
i-8119e264b4443733-161	Mr. Old President! We can't do anything else because you're chickening out. This is more like a theatre group, Mr. Old President. If you had signed the document, you could have been credible in putting an economic budget in line with this. But you don't. You don't even have the spine to stand here and say you're committed to this-- none of you! What credibility do you have who were involved in destroying the whole thing? You don't want to commit to building it up according to the Defense Committee's report. It's outrageously bad!
i-8119e264b4443733-164	Mr. Old President! Roger Richtoff detracts from the importance of climate change in his dissenting opinion. Do not Roger Richtoff and the Swedish Democrats see that the climate issue is one of the most important security policy issues of our time, which has already had major consequences in the world? One example of climate change is the fires that last year raged around Sweden. Extensive power cuts, water shortages and drinking water problems are other threats. Do not Roger Richtoff and the Swedish Democrats see that climate change is already here for real?
i-8119e264b4443733-166	Mr. Old President! We have no problem seeing climate change. It's always been like that. Soon there'll be an ice age, maybe in 5,000 or 10,000 years. We can see that, too. It has always been and will always be major climate changes over time. The problem is that one-sidedly discussing what it is because of. We believe that real scientists from both sides should be brought there and a serious debate on the cause of climate change. But we're the only ones.
i-8119e264b4443733-168	Mr. Old President! "Real scientists" says Roger Richtoff. An overwhelming majority of the scientific community, including the IPCC, believes that it is a fact that climate change has been caused by man's greenhouse gas emissions. There is no doubt that climate change is here in earnest, and we have a short time to do something about it. To deny this is to put your head in the sand, Roger Richtoff.
i-8119e264b4443733-170	Mr. Old President! I do not deny climate change. These things have always happened; I told you. The IPCC is not a science academy. And that it's 97 percent of the scientists is a pure falsarium. The time is too short here, but I can hand over documents from other researchers – several thousand researchers, real climate scientists – who have a completely different idea of the reason for this.
i-8119e264b4443733-172	Mr. Old President! This whole proposal is based on 1.5% of GDP, or 1.6% if civil defence is included. We were very clear that this is why the bourgeois parties, i.e. the Christian Democrats and others, did not stand up. In KD's and M's budget, we added 3.5 billion and 10 billion, and then it will continue. But you raise your eyebrows when you hear Roger Richtoff. He doesn't care. He has not understood parliamentarism.
i-8119e264b4443733-174	Mr. Old President! I think I'll get the right member. He hasn't understood this, and it's not the first time he doesn't understand what you're saying. I said I had a question about what the Green Party thinks. But I don't care what they put in, because I know what they're gonna do. They're never going to pass on this. I am no longer surprised that the honourable Member does not understand this. Again, we sign and commit to this. What does the Center Party commit itself to, and what does the Member Oscarsson commit himself to? Nothing! At least I haven't heard anything.
i-8119e264b4443733-177	Mr. Old President! Here the honourable Member talks about theatre groups, he pays homage to the Social Democrats and he does not care what other parties have signed up to. It will be a parody when it comes to something as serious as Sweden's defence! Roger Richtoff does not want to see that the Christian Democrats, the Moderates, the Center Party and the Liberals do not want to sign because we believe that if you are to build a house you have to agree on the money! Isn't it better that Roger Richtoff admits he's fallen into a crazy barrel?
i-8119e264b4443733-180	Mr. Old President! I'm not in the wrong barrel. In fact, I think this document is a good one. It's excellent, and we'll sign it. What's the problem, Mr. Oscarsson? All you have to do is support our proposals, because we are the only party that has committed to follow this – the only party because you do not dare. I don't know if it's because you're cowardly politicians or what it is. Now commit yourselves to doing this! But you never will.
i-8119e264b4443733-182	I would just like to remind the honourable Member that we do not have any judgments on other Members in the speaker's chair.
i-8119e264b4443733-183	Mr. Old President! I think it is good that we are trying to maintain the level of debate in this House. I am deeply rooted in my party and my party leadership. I commit myself to 1.5% of bnp. What is strange, however, is that Roger Richtoff has spread in a different opinion, which fills three pages of the report as a whole. Among other things, he talks about the situation of the Boers in South Africa but does not say a single word about the economy. It would have been an excellent opportunity for the Swedish Democrats to really buzz at the mast.
i-8119e264b4443733-185	Mr. Old President! We've been buzzing. We have, of course, signed this document, which shows an effort on the various defences of 1.5% of the bnp. In the document it is 1.5%. If we add resistance, we're up to about 1.6 percent. That is how we interpret it and how you interpret it. You would have signed if the Social Democrats had done so and committed themselves. But you do not commit yourselves to it.
i-8119e264b4443733-187	Mr. Old President! I think I committed myself very clearly in the last line shift. I find it very strange that the Swedish Democrats, in a very long, divergent opinion, not in a single word mention the economy, but rather a wide range of other subjects. It makes a strange impression. To commit in writing is more worthwhile than the verbally presented promises, at least in my world.
i-8119e264b4443733-189	Mr. Old President! I do not quite understand what the honourable Member is after. Can we commit ourselves more than by signing a document that targets 1.5% of GDP? It must be the absolute best way. This House then commits itself to putting budgets in this direction. Can I be more clear? I don't think so.
i-8119e264b4443733-190	Mr. Old President! This is one of the most important debates in the early summer, because it is about the continuation of our extremely urgent work to produce as well-founded, anchored and future-oriented a defence decision as possible. We have spent an enormous amount of time together in the Swedish Defence Committee in the last few years in order to produce as good, well thought out and worked out a proposal as possible. I have noted that there are no alternative proposals for the concrete proposals that need to be implemented and which the Committee on Defence is drafting. We are talking about a resuming artillery training in Kristinehamn, development and a new regiment in Arvidsjaur and a unit structure that needs to be developed. It proposes regimental formations in several places in Sweden, including in Mittnorrland. We can area by area see how we set up a holistic approach to strengthen the Swedish Armed Forces' conditions in the different areas throughout the country. This is not just a matter of urgency. It is not only desirable. It is extremely important and crucial at a time when the security policy situation is deteriorating more and more. Not to take the impression of what is happening in our absolute vicinity, in our immediate vicinity, not only shows ignorance and inability to listen to the signals. It also shows that the priorities that need to be set are not chosen. The Centre Party will present the proposals in accordance with the work of the preparation and financially ensure that there are conditions for these five years but also after that continue to work towards reaching the 2% target in the long term. We are also clearly in favour of Swedish NATO membership.
i-8119e264b4443733-195	Mr. Old President! I would like to know a little better how the Center and Bäckström view the impact assessments that are now to be carried out. Do you think that they have value and that this is something that should be taken into account in the preparation of the bill? Are you prepared to take on board your tasks in this context? How do you view negotiations on these issues within the framework of the budgetary cooperation that the Centre Party and the Liberals have with the government?
i-8119e264b4443733-198	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister, for these very important questions! They are relevant and central to both the next three years and decisions regarding the focus period 2021 – 2025. I note that this will be brought up to date as early as this autumn, when, in future budgetary negotiations, we will start talking about the conditions for 2022. The year 2021 is already in the budget, but the year 2022 will be the subject of budget deliberations. Then we will work to get the extra billions needed.
i-8119e264b4443733-200	Mr. Old President! Thank you for your answers on this point. Then I had two other questions. How do Bäckström and the Centres view the impact assessments? Does one think that this is something that should be taken into account? Is it something that is considered to be a substantial piece of work, and is it prepared to be open to taking on board what emerges from these impact assessments?
i-8119e264b4443733-202	Mr. Old President! It is absolutely important to listen to impact assessments and descriptions. But it is even more important to have political governance in these processes and also to set the direction for the next five years. It is on the basis of this priority that impact assessments will provide indications of how things will be in practice. We have been able to see in recent years how budgets have been adjusted year by year and that we have had to add together with the government parties in order to strengthen the defence conditions.
i-8119e264b4443733-204	Mr. Old President! I had the same question about the forthcoming budget negotiations that the Minister for Defence asked. We put 18 billion more in the budget for 2019 – 2021. We supported that budget so that it went through. It was in many ways to fill the void that was in the custody and to live up to the previous defense decision. I'll take the question next time.
i-8119e264b4443733-207	Mr. Old President! Please read the Center's latest budget exercise, Roger Richtoff! We're higher than that number. It covers the years 2019, ‐ 20 and ‐ 21. The fact that we do not take responsibility, as Roger Richtoff claims, is far from my description. We're higher. I think this is a good prerequisite for moving forward and discussing the conditions for 2022, ‐ 23, ‐ 24 and ‐ 25. There will be a need for annual increases in appropriations.
i-8119e264b4443733-208	Mr. Old President! I can say that. When we then enter the period 2019– 2021, we have a decision about a little more than 6 billion each year. But that's to cover the old. Should not an additional EUR 5 billion per year be raised from 2021? This was in view of the fact that the EUR 18 billion that was now set in many respects was intended to cover the old defence decision. How does Daniel Bäckström view it?
i-8119e264b4443733-211	Mr. Old President! It is extremely interesting to see the overall picture that Roger Richtoff is now expressing. He doesn't keep track of current budget work or how it correlates with the Defense Committee's report. In the report we agree that there will be 5 billion annually from 2022 onwards, and we agree that 2021 is where it is. We have talked about this a lot in the Defence Committee, where Roger Richtoff has been very present for the last two years. To say otherwise now in the speaker's chair shows the lack of a holistic approach.
i-8119e264b4443733-213	Mr. Old President! In his first speech, Daniel Bäckström explained that his party had a quorum decision on a certain percentage for the defence. Should I interpret it as meaning that the exercise done in the Defense Committee is simply to identify the appropriate amount of expenses that fills up to 1.5 percent?
i-8119e264b4443733-214	Mr. Old President! We also support the first interim report, as if I remember correctly presented on 17 December. There the amount was just over 4 billion, corresponding to 0.1 per cent, so it is 1.6 per cent in total defence development that is needed. That's the Center Party behind it. We have also been involved in the dialogue in these three laps. We have read and negotiated the texts together with the other parties in the Defence Preparation and made trade-offs in order to solve this in practice. It is a very well-balanced whole that we propose and support.
i-8119e264b4443733-216	Mr. Old President! What I question is not the report, but the approaches of the various parties when they wrote the report. I think it's here somewhere we find the difference. For the Green Party, it is important to first do a global analysis and then identify the needs and arrive at a final sum. For example, it is part of the international analysis that cybersecurity needs are increasing. Some of this will be done in the field of cultural policy. Is it to come after the budget priority and after the 1.5%, or is it to be included in the 1.5%? Is it possible to adjust the budget according to its external analysis, or has it been decided from the beginning?
i-8119e264b4443733-219	Mr. Old President! It may be that I miss out on some details of the issues, but when it comes to the development of total defence over the next five years, I am assuming that it will be about more money around society as a whole. There are many different things that should be involved and contribute to this becoming a reality. When it comes to the state budget, it is very important that there is a clear priority and long-term planning conditions for the Swedish Armed Forces and other authorities to realise the efforts and measures needed. Not giving those conditions will adversely affect our ability.
i-8119e264b4443733-221	Mr. Old President! Let me be clear that the Left Party wants to see a strengthened total defence. It includes both military and civil defence – especially civilian. We would therefore like to see a general increase in resources for civil defence. I share the preparation's view on the importance of strengthening civil defence in all areas of society. This means, among other things, clearer accountability and management conditions, enhanced population protection, improved healthcare and information and cyber security, as well as increased preparedness in food and energy supply. I would particularly like to emphasise the importance of NGOs but also defence. In particular, the Home Guard plays a major role in protecting civil society in the context of crisis and disasters. Today, one of the most serious threats to global security is climate change. Extreme weather events such as drought and floods pose direct threats and are also causes of war and conflict. Another example of climate change is the fires that last year raged in our own country. Extensive power cuts, water shortages and drinking water problems are also something we need to prepare for. The defence committee therefore needs to see even more in its analysis the problems that climate change and other threats to our environment pose both globally and locally. Where defence interests and social interests stand against each other, solutions must be found through compromises and collaborations. Let me also say something about the reintroduction of military service, which the Left Party welcomes, mainly because it strengthens popular support and ultimately democracy. But I would also like to stress the importance of more active work for an equal defence, in which women are given more and more space in all aspects of the defence. To conclude, I would like to thank the Swedish Defence Committee's office under the leadership of Tommy Åkesson and the chairman of the preparation, Björn von Sydow. I would also like to thank all Members.
i-8119e264b4443733-228	Mr. Old President! I think that many important points were raised in the last speech by the Left Party member of the Defence Committee. From a holistic perspective, I support very much of the efforts that need to be made in the civil field. I would therefore like to add the question: how does Lotta Johnsson Fornarve view military armaments and developments in Russia, which affect our security policy situation and the neighbourhood?
i-8119e264b4443733-229	Mr. Old President! I am pleased that Daniel Bäckström shares my view on the importance of strengthening civil defence and total defence as a whole. As far as Russia is concerned, we are very concerned about the country's armaments, the annexation of Crimea and the destabilisation policy pursued in Eastern Ukraine. However, we are also concerned about NATO's armament and also about the militarisation of the European Union.
i-8119e264b4443733-231	Mr. Old President! Then my next question is: What level does Lotta Johnsson Fornarve think is needed when it comes to the share of bnp to the military defence in the next five years, 2021 – 2025, to meet the poorer developments in the security situation in our area?
i-8119e264b4443733-232	Mr. Old President! We do not currently see that there is a direct military threat to Sweden. But we also see that it is important to have a strong defence. Not least in order for our freedom of alliance to be credible, we must have a total defence. We share the direction of military defence: we must move towards three and a half brigades, strengthen military service and so on. But we believe that this must be done over a longer period of time.
i-8119e264b4443733-233	Mr. Old President! When you listen to Lotta Johnsson Fornarve you hear that she thinks it is good and important proposals – we need to strengthen the defence. But when we get to the economy, the will doesn't really seem to be there. I wonder more specifically: what does this mean, and how do we interpret it? What are the amounts that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve sees in front of her? If it's not 1.5 or 1.6 percent, then what is it?
i-8119e264b4443733-234	Mr. Old President! We see, as I said, that we need to strengthen the total defense. We want to strengthen civil defence further; we give more resources to it. We do not want to mention any sum at the moment because we believe that this is a matter for further negotiations. However, we see that the EUR 84 billion proposed in the preparatory report is too high for this period of time. We believe that the reinforcement of defence must take place over a longer period of time. But we share the direction.
i-8119e264b4443733-235	Mr. Old President! I think everyone who hears or sees this realizes that it doesn't make sense. It cannot be said that all of this is important and necessary but does not want to be there anymore when we get to the economy. In real life and when it comes to such an important thing as Sweden's defence, it must be connected. If you build a house, you have to agree on what it should look like, but also on the money. Otherwise it will not work to build a house and let alone to build a defense. I regret that the Left Party is not in on the funding.
i-8119e264b4443733-236	Mr. Old President! As I said, we want to strengthen total defence and, in particular, civil defence. But when it comes to military defence, we believe that the reconstruction must take place over a longer period of time. This is about an incredible amount of money, SEK 84 billion. We must take overall responsibility for the state economy, and there are other needs as well. We must also ensure that we have a functioning welfare society.
i-8119e264b4443733-237	Mr. Old President! Speaking of economics, I listed it – it can also be found in the Swedish Defence Committee's report – which showed how the countries closest to Sweden are now increasing their defence grants very strongly and very quickly. Is this a state of concern with Lotta Johnsson Fornarve? Number two: Lotta Johnsson Fornarve said that it is the military freedom of alliance that has given us peace generation after generation. I disagree.
i-8119e264b4443733-239	Mr. Old President! I am concerned about the general armament process – the armament of both Russia and NATO and the militarisation of the EU. I believe that the way forward for Sweden is to stand by the freedom of alliance and to be a voice for peace and disarmament in the world again in earnest. I think that's how you build peace.
i-8119e264b4443733-240	Mr. Old President! Let me just say that the transit traffic, the transit traffic, the balt extraction. Sweden's neutrality has only worked when we have thumbed it and made departures.
i-8119e264b4443733-241	Mr. Old President! I see that there are elements in the freedom of alliance that could be much better. That is why we believe that we must really strengthen the freedom of alliance, including by stopping approaching NATO and tearing up the host country agreement. Then we can once again be a credible voice for peace and disarmament in the world. I think this is extremely important.
i-8119e264b4443733-242	Mr. Old President! In conclusion, therefore, we are in a tough security policy situation, and that will be the case for the foreseeable future. The defence committee has worked intensively for two and a half years and made a very good proposal. This is based on the fact that we are spending 1.5% of the GDP on military defence – 1.6% if you include civilians. It is therefore regrettable that the Social Democrats do not want an economic agreement on those sums. I know that the Minister for Defence is coming after me, so I would like to ask a few questions that I think many of us in this House and many viewers are wondering. They have been presented before, but then perhaps the Secretary of Defense has not remembered to answer. Did Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist know that we worked with 1.5% of bnp? Had our eminente chairman Björn von Sydow, Social Democrat and former Speaker and Minister of Defence, been allowed to work with 1.5% of bnp? That was question number two. Number three: Will the specialization bill, which should land on the Riksdag table at the beginning of next year, be based on the Defence Committee's report, including the economy?
i-8119e264b4443733-244	Mr. Old President! I will begin by thanking you for this debate, which we have had. I would also like to make a small apology to the honourable Member if I have put myself out of my mind. I'm sure this isn't the last time, but I'm sorry. Well, to my question: will the KD now relate in future budgets to the documents of the Committee on Defence? I understand that I am not going to get any other answer about connection.
i-8119e264b4443733-246	Mr. Old President! I think this debate has been very clear, Roger Richtoff. It has been said time and again that the Christian Democrats, together with the other bourgeois parties, do not want to be part of something that is underfunded. The experience with the previous defence decision was that it was underfunded from day one. That is why we do not want to sign such a document. Is it supposed to be so hard for Roger Richtoff to understand this?
i-8119e264b4443733-247	Mr. Old President! Should I interpret this as meaning that the Christian Democrats will not put forward draft budgets in the direction indicated in the document? That goes up to 1.5% plus the other. Is that how I'm supposed to interpret it? All you have to do is make proposals in Parliament according to this document, by 1.5%. Then we have a clear majority. Don't forget that, honourable Member! It is a very good way to get its budget policy through the parliament. We invested 7.5 billion more than the government in 2019, but we agreed to the lower figure in order to achieve a reasonable distribution to the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-8119e264b4443733-250	Mr. Old President! I was very clear that if the government puts forward a specialization proposal based on this, including the economy 1.5 per cent or 1.6 per cent if you include the civilian, it will go through in Parliament. That's our focus. In fact, I am a little disappointed by Mr Richtoff. He's been talking about theater company here. Soon I think he himself will qualify with his way of acting today. You qualify for a theater company that doesn't listen to the arguments, Roger Richtoff!
i-e16f314b58b755d3-0	It's time for you to apologize now, maybe. )
i-8119e264b4443733-252	Mr. Old President! Throughout this debate, I have repeatedly asked Peter Hultqvist whether he was aware that the preparation for 16 months was working on the assumption of 1.5%. I have also asked whether, at least at an initial stage, he gave the green light to the chairman of the Defence Committee, Björn von Sydow, to work on this assumption. Now that he has consistently refused to answer the question, I must draw the following conclusions: Yes, Peter Hultqvist was aware of this, and yes, Peter Hultqvist did not interfere with the assumption of 1.5%. Mr. Old President! It is rarely the Minister of Defence honors the House with his presence. The most concrete order in the 2015 defense decision was for two army brigades who would be fully equipped and co-opted. Just before Christmas, army chief Karl Engelbrektson told us that there will only be such a brigade.
i-8119e264b4443733-256	Mr. Old President! One of the dimensions of the mission that the Defence Committee was given was to look at the funding. In an article from TT 2017, Allan Widman comments on this. This is what the article says: a liberal's defence policy spokesperson Allan Widman does not believe that the defence preparation will ultimately live up to the government's directives in terms of accounting for funding. "This gang isn't qualified enough to make such assessments. Our focus is defence and security," he says to TT. "I don't think it's possible for us to have such an overview of how we can move money from school, from health care or anything else. ..................................................... What conclusions does Widman draw from this on the basis of the impact assessments now to be made and the budgetary cooperation with the government?
i-8119e264b4443733-260	Mr. Old President! I think Peter Hultqvist is well aware that the quote he reads for me refers back to the discussion that existed in a previous defence committee, where we wondered whether the postage or tobacco tax should be increased by a certain percentage. I do not think that a defence committee should deal with such issues. That is precisely why I go to my party leadership and anchor the positions I make in the preparation.
i-8119e264b4443733-261	Mr. Old President! Could it possibly be that this demonstrates the importance of also discussing the defence economy as a whole with the rest of the economy within the framework of the budgetary cooperation that the Liberals now have with the government? I would also like to hear Allan Widman's assessment of the value of the impact assessments that we are now going to make and the Liberals' willingness to take advantage of the views that come out there. Are you prepared to have an open mind when it comes to dealing with impact assessments?
i-8119e264b4443733-263	Mr. Old President! I can start with the last question. My mind is very open, and of course all good advice should be listened to. Then I assume that when people come to the Defense Committee they are representatives of their parties and have anchored their positions there. But this time it turns out that it was not so with the three representatives of the Social Democrats, and that is very bad.
i-8119e264b4443733-265	Mr. Old President! The Liberals, together with M and KD, have written in a different opinion in Resistance that they believe that NATO is and remains the primary defence of democracies against authoritarian and aggressive forces and that Sweden should join NATO. Does Allan Widman really believe that the NATO Member States – Turkey, Hungary and Poland – are among the main defenders of democracy? How can a nuclear alliance led by Trump be the guarantor of our security?
i-8119e264b4443733-266	Mr. Old President! It is my view that it is highly questionable whether Turkey really is a member of NATO today. They have a wide range of conflicts with many NATO countries and have sidelined completely. You can see that not least now when they're shopping for anti-aircraft. NATO and the Washington Treaty demand popular support and democratic control over armed forces. Yes, NATO is the voice of freedom in the world.
i-8119e264b4443733-268	Mr. Old President! It is impossible to get away from the fact that Turkey, Hungary and Poland are actually members of the alliance that Allan Widman so badly wants Sweden to join and which you consider to be the main defender of our democracy. Does Allan Widman also believe that NATO is the guarantor of our security? It is a nuclear alliance led by the United States, which has a President who has recently taken a number of decisions that seriously threaten global security, such as leaving the Paris Agreement and the UN Human Rights Council, and is now threatening war on Iran.
i-8119e264b4443733-269	Mr. Old President! I can only say that in the recent EP election movement, the Left Party obviously had little problem with both Poland and Hungary being members of the European Union. After all, they now supported the EU or at least said that they did not want to leave it at the moment. It seems that logic is not really connected.
i-8119e264b4443733-270	Mr. Old President! To grasp the very cross-safe positions that come out here today, I think it's good to look a little back in time. That is why I have a question for Allan Widman about what it was like in the past. What was it like under the bourgeois government? Was it the case that the financial framework for defence policy was put in the Defence Committee? Or were they placed in the Council of State Committee, which produced the state's budget? How was it?
i-8119e264b4443733-272	Mr. Old President! My memory picture is that the levels that were laid down – and it was also made economic levels in previous preparations – were essentially followed into the Government Office and up to the defense bill. There was an agreement based on the preparation's work on an increase even before the Social Democratic Government took office.
i-8119e264b4443733-273	Mr. Old President! So my question was: where was the financial framework established? Allan Widman answers that the ideas, the basics of the preparation, followed into the Government Office. But they were established – I see he confirms it – in the Government Office, in the budget preparation.
i-8119e264b4443733-274	Mr. Old President! Yes, that is the constitutional order that we have. That decision must always be made. What is missing this time and which I believe we four bourgeois parties are calling for is a position of the Social Democrats, as a party. Where do they stand in this? But of course you must have both a budget preparation and a budget decision, which is ultimately made in Parliament. There is no doubt about that.
i-8119e264b4443733-275	Mr. Old President! The defence cannot be seen as an isolated island but must be seen as part of society. This applies to both economics and social planning. Although the defence in a crisis situation should be able to function without essential social functions, the Armed Forces need roads to run on, food and clean water. For example, when planning, defence must also adapt to changes in society, cities develop and the energy system changes. Then I am convinced that defence must be part of broader analyses. This applies, for example, to the need to adapt the air force after we expand wind power. It is also important that the historical emissions of defence are managed effectively and continuously. By the deplorable action of the Committee on Defence, the bourgeois parties cement the issue so that it is only about money for military defence and material. The issue of defence and security is much broader than that. It is about safe access to drinking water, about the ability to prevent and manage droughts and fires and about reducing dependence on imports of essential parts for our food supply from unstable countries. Some of the measures to deal with this will be in the area of enterprise policy. Much of the work to prevent and strengthen the country in terms of cyber security will lie under cultural policy. It's just as important to our safety. It's part of a whole. In order to make a responsible strengthening of our security and defence capabilities, we need to broaden the defence issue. Examples of issues that need to be included in the forthcoming work include a robust and decentralised electricity system, safe food production, the protection of drinking water and policies to strengthen democracy and free speech.
i-8119e264b4443733-280	Mr. Old President! The Swedish Armed Forces need long-term planning conditions. The defence committee has said in its report that military defence needs at least 84 billion by the end of 2025. The Green Party writes in the preparation: a Green Party is therefore not prepared to tie us to the figures on cost increases for the total defence presented in the report. The defence budget contribution may need to be increased at a lower rate than proposed in the preparation report. Then I ask the question: Is the Green Party, as a political orientation, behind 84 billion or a lower or substantially lower level?
i-8119e264b4443733-281	Mr. Old President! The Environmental Party supports the analyses, the international analyses and the work that the Defence Committee has done. And we acknowledge and support the fact that all aspects of total defence – civil defence and military defence – will need increased resources. But the Minister for Defence has also presented here today a clear process forward, about what is then happening and at what stage the exact levels will be established. We don't have a deviant view of it.
i-8119e264b4443733-282	Mr. Old President! We're talking about military defense, and we've set the level that way. If the Green Party does not support it and wants a lower or substantially lower level, I ask the question: in which areas do we want to remove? Is it in the army, in aviation, in the Navy or in the Home Guard? Is that for officers and soldiers? That is the problem for this small government: that you cannot set the level. The Swedish Armed Forces are calling for long-term planning conditions, and I ask the question again: What is the political ambition of the Green Party – 84 billion, lower or substantially lower?
i-8119e264b4443733-284	Mr. Old President! We have a broad consensus that we need to increase safety for Sweden. We also agree that there have been shifts in the world around us. For example, cyber security threats have increased compared to other parts. We are behind a policy of adapting to the changed situation. Then it is not important in which part of the state budget expenditure comes. It can be in cultural policy, for example. If that is where we take the measures most effectively, that is where we are going to take them. That's our entrance. And we will be fully involved until proposals and budgets are put forward to do this work, but it requires a balanced analysis.
i-8119e264b4443733-286	Mr. Old President! I give a part of the opening speech by Mr Skog: it is not reasonable for a group of political figures to decide the whole. In the last one, she deplored the action taken in the preparation. She referred to us four bourgeois parties, who did not sign the report. What mandate did Anders Schröder have when negotiating for the Environmental Party in the Defence Committee? Anders has done a very fine job and also realised the importance of a stronger defence. What mandate does he have in the Green Party?
i-8119e264b4443733-289	Mr. Old President! Anders Schröder has worked very closely with the previous parliamentary group and with the current parliamentary group in his work with the Defence Committee and has reported back on constructive and good work in the preparation. But we have been very clear that we have put our focus on updating the environmental analysis, so that we relate the Swedish defence to what is actually happening and what we believe will happen in the outside world. He had a clear mandate to do this.
i-8119e264b4443733-291	Mr. Old President! I note that the Green Party does not seem to have read the first interim report on resilience. That is where we set out what was called for earlier: on the whole, on all policy areas and on the importance of civil defence. But now that it is a question of military defence, I am calling for a response from the Green Party: what are their ambitions? And do we realise the parliamentary situation – that a majority is needed in this House in order for a directional decision extending until 2025 to be landed next year?
i-8119e264b4443733-293	Mr. Old President! On the contrary – we have read the first report and draw conclusions from it. But we regret that the debate, as so often, is ultimately about more money just for the defence. This is the journey that we regret. We want to hold on to the basic work of the Defence Committee and use it as a basis for the work ahead. I would also like to point out that we have a special arrangement for budgetary work, and that applies to all areas of activity.
i-8119e264b4443733-295	Mr. Old President! In her speech, we heard Karolina Skog talk about the importance of civil defence. She was talking about food security. Then I'd like to tell you something-- maybe there's some confusion here. There are two legs on which our entire report is based. It is a question of civil defence, which unfortunately does not exist anymore and which needs to be restored. But here it seems to be something that the honourable Member has missed.
i-8119e264b4443733-297	Mr. Old President! I do not quite understand the comment. There has been a broad work in the preparation, which has written a report on different parts. I choose to focus on some of the parts that I see have been most deprived. As the honourable Member says, civil defence was the one most affected by reductions in the past. If we have to prioritise, that is what we will focus on. It is a direction that we have, and it is based on the conclusions contained in the report.
i-8119e264b4443733-298	Mr. Old President! It's about the money. When it comes to civil defence and military defence, it is about money. It's just going to be empty words, and it's going to be pretty pathetic too. In the past, we heard the honourable Member come into cultural policy. We also heard earlier about some theater company. This is not good enough. The report states that Finland stands at 2% of GDP and Norway at 1.6% of GDP. This money is required. What does the Green Party expect us to cut back on the proposal for resilience?
i-8119e264b4443733-300	Mr. Old President! I think that this speech says a great deal about defence policy. If anyone mentions that there are other parts of what we do in society that are also important and that lay the foundations for a functioning defence and security policy, this is ridiculed – to do something in cultural policy, to strengthen free speech and to work towards the active destabilisation campaigns that are taking place. That's not good enough. You're stuck in a thought pattern that's out of date. We must update ourselves and work on the world in which we live today.
i-8119e264b4443733-301	Mr. Old President! This debate makes it clear that there is a great and broad commitment to the defence issue. We now also have a proposal which has been worked out by the Swedish Defence Committee and which will form the basis for the work on the bill by the Government. I assume that there is a desire for a broad agreement on this important issue. Broad majorities create stability both in the signal system towards our own authorities and towards the outside world. But there must also be a sense and an understanding of the importance of taking part in the impact assessments to be carried out and putting them into an economic whole. This involves the development of the organisation, the development of capabilities, the supply of personnel, the impact on the infrastructure of defence and, finally, the assessment of the economy. The government's will is to continue to increase its military capabilities and to ensure that there are long-term planning conditions. But it also requires good evidence.
i-8119e264b4443733-304	Madam President, I would like The Inland Rebellion, the Bensin Rebellion, the Rural Rebellion – the initiatives during the spring have been many and have gathered several hundred thousand people. The underlying frustration and message from the people are the same: National politics do not see the whole of Sweden, and now we have had enough. The Rural Committee's analysis of rural policy in the past 40 years notes that the state and national policies have not seen the whole country's potential for a long time, nor have they given Sweden's rural areas and sparsely populated areas an opportunity to deal with the challenges they face. It has now been over a year since the Riksdag decided on an overall rural policy objective. There were many of us who had hoped that the Rural Committee's 75 sharp proposals would be included in the bill. But we were disappointed. The powerful movements that we have seen around our country show that the hopes and promises of a new policy that seizes all of Sweden's opportunities have not become a reality. I hope that we will be able to have a serious debate here today, and we will show that we are serious about the fine words.
i-8119e264b4443733-309	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Center Party for initiating this debate. As a relatively recent Minister for Rural Affairs, I devote a large part of my time to travelling around Sweden's rural areas. Regardless of where I go, I am greeted with commitment and pride – pride in the countryside, cohesion and everything that is fantastic about living in Swedish countryside. But I am also faced with anxiety, disappointment and anger at the conditions of the hinterland, at fuel prices and at the fact that the distance between us seems to be growing. There is a widespread feeling that society is unable to deliver in many respects. It is in many ways a rightful anger. For too long Swedish countryside has been neglected by all political parties and by governments of different colours. But now we're seeing a trend break. We see it in the general political debate, where rural conditions are now taking on more and more place, and we see it in politics. The Social Democratic-led government began during the last parliamentary term to reverse the ship. Now the time has passed for Stockholm fixation and depleted resources for the welfare of rural areas. We appointed the Rural Committee, where all parties agreed on 75 proposals for the whole of Sweden to grow. We conducted a policy of billions of dollars in broadband, 10 billion in welfare distributed throughout the country, investment in development in assisted area A and in socially vulnerable municipalities, to name a few. The January agreement, negotiated by the government parties with the Centre Party and the Liberals, concerns rural development in several of the points. We will strengthen the green industries, invest in welfare throughout Sweden and enable education in all countries. The relocation of authorities that began during the previous term of office is now being followed up with a stop to the creation of new authorities in Stockholm during this term of office. But that's not enough. We need more targeted efforts to increase growth and redistribute for a secure welfare. We need to implement a rural tax reform for greater justice that closes the gaps in our country, between people and between urban and rural areas. When the Right says that politics should withdraw and resources be reduced, our message is quite the opposite. Politics should take greater responsibility for building the strong society throughout the country. Everyone should be able to have faith in the future, no matter where they live. The napkin sketch for the budget voted by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats in December was devastating for the countryside. Gone was the majority of the scope for reform, and instead of strong investment in a Sweden that sticks together – with investments in welfare, broadband and education in rural areas – we received a sixth job tax deduction. Madam President, I would like This government is serious about the whole of Sweden living and growing. Then politics cannot withdraw. I myself am a rural resident, raised in an inland municipality. I have lived Swedish countryside, both its failure and its success. Rural policy is not an exercise in words and phrases, but it is for real and affects the everyday lives of millions of Swedes. Ordinary people should be able to expect that society is strong also in rural areas – that health care is there when it is needed, that school provides all young people with equal opportunities and that society is safe. Only that way can all of Sweden live and grow.
i-8119e264b4443733-316	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Center Party, which has invited us to this debate today. It is an extremely important debate, in which we are going to talk about rural conditions. We talked about it earlier, outside the Chamber: what is the countryside? Where do we draw the line for the countryside – when does it become rural, and when is it not rural? That question may be difficult to answer, but what is very clear is that it boils in the countryside. A previous speaker listed the uprisings currently taking place in rural areas, and these uprisings are of the utmost seriousness. People feel betrayed and run over, and they feel that the limit of what you can do is approaching. We can only see this in the last uprising, the petrol uprising, which has brought together over 600 000 people. They feel like they can't afford to live like this anymore. Raised taxes are not always the answer to everything. The engine in the countryside is the green industries. At all times, soil and forests, together with the mining industry, have been strong in Sweden and have generated jobs, wealth and job opportunities in rural areas. What is required in the coming years is that we have profitability in the green industries – that we secure long-term ownership, the right of access and the right of use for those people who want to engage in rural industries. It is only because they flourish and feel good that people want to live and live in the countryside. Then all the other things that are needed for people to live and live in the countryside follow. For example, you should feel safe and there should be police nearby – police actually coming when you have had a break-in. I myself have been the victim of three burglaries in the last five years, and so far the police have not even come out to me in connection with the burglaries. That's remarkable. People should also feel safe in terms of their animal production and predator management; they should feel heard and feel that the administration is being shot close to those living among and living with the predators. Roads must work in the countryside; you can't have roads full of potholes and other things when you're going to get through. Snow clearance must work in the countryside. There are many issues in which people in rural areas feel run over. They feel it doesn't actually work. The solution is still not increased taxes. That is not how we solve rural concerns. The distance in Sweden is not something we should tax, but it is something we should solve. We need people who want to live and live throughout the country and engage in the green industries. As I said, businesses should be able to flourish, and people should be able to live and live in rural areas. Beach protection is another thing that has made it more difficult for people in rural areas. It's just nonsense – we have so much beach to the Swedish population. Let them build by the beach if that's how they want it! The important thing is that people are happy and want to live in the countryside.
i-8119e264b4443733-322	Madam President, I would like I would like to broaden the rural perspective a little. The Swedish Board of Agriculture divides Sweden into big cities, cities, rural areas and sparsely rural areas. We believe that rural policy must include all these areas, with the exception of the big cities. Sweden consists of many areas around one or more central towns. Basic to understand is that those who do not live in the central cities often commute there. They drive to work, friends, movies and shops or drive to schools and evening activities. The village lives in symbiosis with its central town, and unless it develops, the surrounding countryside does not. Madam President, I would like We are governed by a lot of time and money. The time and money required to get to the central town and park there determines how far outside the central town many want to live. Increased fuel costs, reduced speeds, closed streets and difficulty in parking make it more difficult to live outside the central areas. It makes it more difficult for tourism and kills the countryside. On 4 June, the House voted on the overindexation of fuel taxes. Only SD and M voted against. Please note that deductions for car travel to work do not solve these problems – in order to be able to live outside the central areas, not least the children's family need to use the car for much more than getting to work. Madam President, I would like The profitability of agriculture needs to be strengthened. The House voted on 4 June to reduce diesel tax on farmers and forestry. From our side, we proposed significantly greater reductions, and we would like to hear the Center Party's explanation that the party did not want a greater reduction. Sweden has stricter legal requirements on food production than the EU. Therefore, municipalities and regions should buy in their food according to the corresponding level – preferably also with targets for shorter transport distances. Landowners should also be properly paid for conservation management and to refrain from, for example, certain fellings. Madam President, I would like Many central locations in Sweden are dependent on electricity-intensive industry. Uncertainty about energy policy is a threat to jobs both in these towns and in the surrounding area, which often delivers to the industries. Many village schools are threatened with closure due to lack of teachers. We need more widely trained class teachers who can take full responsibility in small low and middle school classes. Many teachers, by the way, commute from the centre to the villages. If they cannot commute cost-effectively, many will opt out of the village schools. Interest in agricultural industries should be supported in our schools, in cooperation with the industries. Newly educated young people often live where they have been trained, and therefore we need to train specialists around Sweden. If we only train them in the big cities, we will have specialists in the big cities.
i-8119e264b4443733-331	Madam President, I would like Rural conditions are particularly important for the Center Party. We have stood up for the opportunity to live and run businesses throughout the country for decades. While others see the countryside as a special interest or something to visit, it is our home and our roots. During the spring several movements, such as the Bensin uprising, the Rural Rebellion and the Inland Rebellion, have raised their voices. We listen to these hundreds of thousands of people, who only want to be able to live on, run businesses and have fair conditions. It is all too rarely that rural conditions are debated and discussed in Parliament, and the Center Party will never accept the ongoing division between city and country that has been going on for a long time. People's concerns about being invisible and their sense that bets are always made elsewhere must be taken seriously. In January 2017, the Rural Committee presented its conclusions. It was a broad parliamentary group that would get to the bottom of the division and exclusion that exists in Sweden today. After studying the development of the past 40 years, it was concluded that Sweden has not been able to keep both cities and rural areas going. We have not been able to ensure that both rural and sparsely populated areas can live up to the potential that exists. This is an enormous problem – in fact a failure – which creates concern and uncertainty among people. Madam President, I would like The Center Party is and remains a party with roots in the Swedish countryside. We come from places where buses have stopped walking, schools closed down and shops closed down. We know how it feels and that it affects the whole life. We know that it is often lonely to stand on the barricades for the right to basic services, good schools and communications throughout the country. We also know that rural areas are full of opportunities and that you will succeed if you get the chance to develop your full potential without stifling bureaucracy and tricky politicians. In the January agreement, the Center Party has pushed for a changed beach protection, a forestry policy with respect for property rights and a farmer's package for strengthening competitiveness. In the spring budget presented in April, there is investment in jobs and entrepreneurship in rural areas through, among other things, reducing employers' contributions, maintaining low VAT rates for natural tourism entrepreneurs and strengthening drought support for affected farmers. In Parliament, we in the Center Party have fought for hunters and sportsmen throughout the country by opposing the government's over-implementment of the EU weapons directive. We are fighting for broadband and digitalisation throughout the country and for restoring the values of natural resources to the area where they were created. We are pushing for the state to be present throughout the country and for state jobs to be relocated to outside the big cities. It is time for parliamentary parties and government ministers to take this issue seriously again. We have to ask ourselves why the promises of change and improvement that were made have not been fulfilled. The uprisings and movements we see around the country are proof that it does not work today. We have to do more.
i-8119e264b4443733-338	Madam President, the Government, colleagues and listeners! I would first like to thank the Center Party for the initiative for this debate on rural conditions. I think it is a much-needed debate, and I hope that it will give something to all of us. If you ask me what the countryside is, I can say, just as someone was in it, that there are great differences between being in a small town that has two three miles to a larger city with 100,000 inhabitants and being in Västerbotten's inland, Norrbotten's inland or eastern Norrbotten, where the population in the villages has become 90 percent less than in the 50's and where the population of the municipalities has halved. My own municipality, at its height, has had 15,000 inhabitants; today we are 6 000. You understand the problem when there are more than 80 villages and when there are facilities that the municipality is trying to keep alive – it can be about water or sewage. Previously, 30 households shared it; today a pensioner couple may be in charge of it. It is easy to understand the challenges these municipalities face. You're saying the whole country will live. It's not something to play with. That expression – that the whole of Sweden should live – should actually be devalued. We have had it for so long, and just as the Government was in the same direction for 50 years, regardless of the color of governments. I think it is good that the Center Party is raising this issue, but you had eight years. It was one food trip for eight years; nothing happened in the countryside. In fact, I had hoped for a little more when you had that ministerial post. I hope, however, that we can do better together today. It is, of course, a matter of conditions for these municipalities. You talk about tax increases not being the answer to everything. Perhaps I can agree with that, but lowering the tax rate for the most wealthy in Sweden certainly does not give anything to the countryside. For example, when it comes to people living and working in rural areas, the petrol uprising and the rural uprising are good alarm clocks. I agree that it gives us politicians the feeling that there is a rumbling out there – that people are not happy and that we have to do something. But anyone who believes that the market will run these municipalities is naive. These municipalities have the highest taxes and the lowest level of service. What has happened is that today you have to drive twice as much to reach the same service as with the service points that existed 20 years ago. I look forward to this discussion and to hearing what solutions come from different parties.
i-8119e264b4443733-347	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating rural conditions. I am pleased that we are having this debate in Parliament's Chamber, but for many people living in rural areas there will only be another debate with many fair words. You feel that the promises are just empty words. Unfortunately, this creates even more political contempt. I had the joy of attending the Rural Kingdom in Örnsköldsvik last year. All parties agreed that the whole of Sweden should live. It's a fantastic expression: All of Sweden should live! There is only one but: This was before the election. What about the promises, like nine months later? I would like to take a few examples. As far as security in rural areas is concerned, we Christian Democrats want to increase the number of police officers. We want there to be a well-functioning police station in each municipality. We believe that proximity and personal knowledge are important for security. We also believe that this is important when it comes to machine theft and diesel theft. The number of burglaries is increasing. Some people I am talking to even say that they are not even calling the police because the police are still not coming, as we heard Mr Widegren talk about earlier.
i-8119e264b4443733-353	The Government's objective is that 98 per cent of the country should have access to broadband. Broadband is very important now that digitalisation in all municipalities is in full swing. What's going on? Telia cuts down every copper wire without acceptable solutions. Had this happened in Stockholm, my friends, it would have been a scream and miles of headlines that it was a terrible scandal. But what now? Well, it's in the countryside now. Then it may be an article but no more. Madam President, I would like It is no wonder that there is an insurgency against high fuel costs. We live in the countryside. We may have to take our children to practice or go by car to work, and we will have to pay a very high price. There's no subway. There may not even be a bus that comes if you stand by the side of the road, and if there is a bus, it may go very rarely. The government's response to this is to subsidise electric bicycles. I say this: It is incredibly important to realize that the fact is that everything has not happened now. All parties must be humble and say that we have not succeeded, whether it has been a bourgeois majority, a red-green majority or the majority we have today. It is so important that we are actually humble and try to get to grips with these issues so that it is not just another empty word, because it will not be for the benefit of Sweden's citizens.
i-8119e264b4443733-357	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Center Party for the initiative for this debate. Sweden is more than a few big cities. We believe that you should have the opportunity to live and work all over Sweden whether you have chosen to live in Värmland Höljes or in Vaggeryd in Småland. One should have access to a basic public service. These are things such as being able to run a business, being able to train and having access to functioning infrastructure. You should be able to live as you want, wherever you want. Madam President, I would like I'm a warming man. Värmland, like all other counties, is unique according to its geographical conditions. The strategic location between the Oslo region and the Stockholm region creates opportunities to live and grow. With Klarälven that runs through the county and out into Lake Vänern, conditions are created for a good industry. Värmland is also the forest county, with a strong and world-unique pulp and paper industry that spans the world. Värmland has all the components to become an even more successful county. But regardless of whether we are talking about Värmland, Norrbotten or any other county, politics must believe in the whole of Sweden and see the potential in all counties. Regions in the country need to cooperate more with educational institutions in general and universities in particular to ensure the provision of skills throughout the country. Cooperation must be mantras to find solutions to the challenge. As a former entrepreneur and now the political spokesperson of the Liberals, I understand the importance of creating the conditions for a thriving business economy if the whole country is to live. That's where the welfare-building forces are created. With the help of business, we can fix school and care for the elderly and reduce exclusion. The more people who can work, the more resources. The more people who have the opportunity to grow their businesses, the better the countryside will feel. Then it is also gratifying to see the liberal reforms that we have received thanks every January, ranging from making it easier and cheaper to hire to making it easier to start a business. We are reforming LAS and developing the Public Employment Service. Reducing taxes on labour is the way to green tax shifting. And the key to living rural areas is entrepreneurship – something that the Government unfortunately did not highlight enough. Madam President, I would like Again: Sweden is more than a few big cities. We must create policies that provide the conditions for the whole of Sweden to live. These are, for example, closer cooperation between different institutions and a basic public service, but above all they are policies that encourage work and enable businesses to grow. In this work, we, the Liberals, will take our responsibilities very seriously.
i-8119e264b4443733-366	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the initiators of this debate. Rural development is of course a very important issue, and we need a concrete and objective debate on rural conditions. The Green Party wants to strengthen rural opportunities. At the same time, of course, we want to address the major societal issues: climate change, the climate threat, inequalities between people, a lack of justice, environmental problems such as eutrophication and the threat to biodiversity. Environmental issues are no reason for urbanisation. Climate and environmental efforts are not a threat to rural areas. On the contrary, climate change is an opportunity to strengthen jobs and entrepreneurship throughout Sweden. That the price of petrol is the focus of the various uprisings is a fact. One fact is that the krona price is weak and the oil price is extremely high. The Green Party wants to strengthen the countryside. We want to see villages, towns and small towns around the country flourish. People should feel safe, have the conditions to feel good, have a good time and feel comfortable in their areas. It must be easier to live and build. Here I believe that the Rural Committee's proposal on rural loans or Småkom's idea of giving SBAB a targeted assignment for housing loans in rural areas are interesting solutions to proceed with. I think it is crazy – excuse the floor, Madam President – when one of the biggest problems for industrial companies growing in towns such as Östervåla and Gnosjö is that there is a shortage of rental housing in the area. Industries are growing, and mortgage market participants value the risks of construction too high. If we cannot get the business community to act together, we know that society's initiatives are needed.
i-8119e264b4443733-373	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good and inspiring debate! I note that we seem to agree on a great deal. We need to change rural policy and raise our ambitions. We can by all means have a debate on the debate or on the rhetoric – it is tempting – but I do not think ordinary people in rural areas care about it. I think you're rather uninterested in it. We want to know that we are taking the problem seriously and that we are going to do something about it. The Social Democratic-led government prioritises expanding welfare throughout the country, both by increasing funding for municipalities and county councils, and also by re-establishing the cost equalisation system so that we redistribute more money to rural municipalities. Against this, moderate representatives, particularly in Stockholm, have protested loudly. Please explain to me and to everyone who lives in the countryside and who is watching this debate why it is wrong that the richest municipalities in Sweden contribute a little more to the development of the whole country! Madam President, I would like I am serious that we should reverse developments in Swedish rural areas. But if you have any credibility in it, you have to deliver results. My main political ambition is to make life better for ordinary people in rural areas. You should have the right to the world's best school, healthcare and infrastructure, regardless of whether you settle in Vilhelmina, Varberg or Visby. But then we must be able to prioritise investment in roads and broadband over new job tax deductions, care throughout the country over freedom of choice reforms aimed primarily at big cities and services and rural farmers over deregulation and sales. Facit is clear: Only a social democratic-led government can and wants to implement a strong rural policy that builds a stronger society for everyone in Sweden.
i-8119e264b4443733-379	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I want to go back to this with the profitability of the green industries. I am extremely in favour, for example, of the food strategy decided two years ago in this House. But the farmers are still on the ground wondering what the difference is for them and when they will have the opportunity to increase production, as we actually say in the food strategy. Agriculture wants long-term conditions, reduced regulatory and bureaucratic constraints and reduced special taxes in order to compete with its closest competitors in neighbouring European countries. How will the government ensure that the food strategy will continue over the next two years not just become a paper product? Is there anything in the action plan, which is coming this summer, that will really make Swedish farmers want to increase production to strengthen rural areas?
i-8119e264b4443733-383	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, John Widegren, for the question! I share your view that it is extremely important that the profitability of green industries should increase. That is the basis for jobs and growth in much of our country. You could also add tourism and small business related to this. Much of what needs to be done is well described in the food strategy. We will follow up on the first action plan that has already been presented with a new action plan coming in June. The focus is on research and innovation, product development, development of business practices and linking exports in a clear way. One of the major challenges ahead is to ensure that we sell Swedish agricultural products as they are, namely premium products that can be paid for both by Swedish consumers and on a world market.
i-8119e264b4443733-387	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Swedish farmers' products are absolutely premium products. We are fantastically good, and we have been since we decided in the 80's that we would have the world's best agriculture, and we have that today. However, we still have a large number of companies closing down because of a lack of profitability and because it is too heavy a burden. Some are the bought food. How does the Government see how we can increase the willingness to procure locally? It's happening, but we need to strengthen it even more.
i-8119e264b4443733-389	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, John Widegren, for the question! I think we're quite in agreement there. Just as John Widegren says, it's happening. We have been clear about setting the goal that as much as possible of what is procured for schools and elderly care should be ecological. But we need to rig the system so that you can procure what is locally produced and ensure that Swedish law also applies to what is procured in Sweden.
i-8119e264b4443733-391	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for taking up Stockholm's fixation in much of Swedish politics! I am going to ask you a question related to this. The government has moved a number of government jobs from Stockholm, and that is a good start. However, I think it is a little too little. The Rural Committee said that 10 000 government jobs should be relocated, and if you look at the Stockholm population, 18 000 jobs should be relocated. It is a good initiative, but we need to do more. My question is: Does the Government think that these jobs are being moved to the places that really need them? It can be seen that they are moved to suburbs in Stockholm or to regional centres and university cities that already have major growth problems. Should they not be relocated to smaller rural areas which have been affected by the disappearance of government jobs?
i-8119e264b4443733-395	Madam President, I would like I thank Peter Helander for the question. It is an important issue, which is that the policy must take much greater account of regional policy and responsibility than it has often done historically. The step taken by the previous government, led by Stefan Löfven, to relocate jobs to the country was very important. We see that the jobs often go to residential cities or to Stockholm's peripheral municipalities, which is good, but we may need to do more. When there is a discussion about government agencies picking up tasks with the motive that these can be done anywhere in the country, such as call centres, information centres and other things, it should be obvious that these should be located in places that have a labour market that needs this power. We have taken an important first step. But I think we can do more on this track, and it is my intention to try to make sure that we do too.
i-8119e264b4443733-400	Madam President, I would like This has been going on for many years, and one can say that it is the state and not the business sector that leaves the countryside first, which is sad. My municipality of residence Mora is a prosperous rural municipality with migration and business that invests. But there, for example, the Tax Agency leaves the place. Now the Swedish Enforcement Authority is also leaving, strangely enough with reference to the government's proposal to remove government agencies.
i-AnTxJUbLfmK7hVYPZg2Z6H	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Peter Helander! This really deserves a debate of its own, and 30 seconds is crazy little to say something sensible about this. Let me just say that important steps have been taken and that the policy is prepared to take responsibility in this matter too. But we will have to do more, and we need to discuss how we do it in the best way so that we benefit the whole of Sweden and reach out to the whole country and not just to the residential cities.
i-5EQ6yTzLToPQur5CYko1Tk	Madam President and Prime Minister Jennie Nilsson! Peter Helander stole my question, so I had to reconsider. The Government mentioned tax policy. Does the Government have any idea how the removal of the military tax could benefit the countryside?
i-8119e264b4443733-405	Madam President, I would like The removal of the military tax does not benefit the countryside. Had I been able to decide, I would rather have spent the 6 billion on efforts that would have strengthened welfare throughout Sweden. I would also have preferred to spend the EUR 20 billion of the sixth job tax credit on something that would better benefit rural areas. It could have really made a difference. Birger Lahti knows as well as I do that what Sweden would have obtained if we had not made the agreement we made would have been a conservative government with the support of the Swedish Democrats, which would have meant we would have had a completely different debate today. I think Birger Lahti is, after all, quite happy that the Social Democrats took responsibility.
i-8119e264b4443733-407	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I guess I'd expect to get about that answer. Sweden has long had a policy where government money has moved people from the countryside to the cities. This has been going on for decades with paid migration trips and more. How can we have the opposite effect?
i-8119e264b4443733-409	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birger Lahti. We will need to have a further discussion. The Rural Committee presented 75 specific points. We have made a number of different decisions that are about both strengthening the economy for municipalities and county councils and redistributing more. I do not think that that is enough, but that the tax reform that we have announced must be based on how we reduce the gaps between people, city and country. That's the only way we can really make a difference.
i-8119e264b4443733-411	Madam President, I would like Speaking of the green industry, which we were talking about earlier, the environmental code states that farming is dangerous for the environment. When you hear the words, there are dangerous activities, and you think of poisons and other horrors. However, I do not think that the dairy farmer who goes to the milk pit and milks thinks that he is in dangerous business because he is producing food for us. Does the Minister intend to work for the words to be replaced by activities that have an impact on the environment?
i-8119e264b4443733-413	Madam President, I would like I thank Magnus Oscarsson for the question. I must admit that I am not aware that this concept is used in the environmental code. I imagine that it is thought that it is environmental impact, because all kinds of activities are environmental impacts. I have no answer to the question more than that I need to look at what it says. If I have read it in its entirety and seen the full meaning of it, I think there is reason to do something about it, I will return.
i-8119e264b4443733-416	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Why I am referring to this is because we in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture had a ready-made proposal on how to change this. Unfortunately, the government parties and the support parties did not agree to that. That is why I very much welcome this cooperation with the Government.
i-Pe4G4Wzy1cZTs6ZS6QMC5W	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Oscarsson! We have a different parliamentary situation, and I have noted that in many committees the ambition and eagerness of Members to take initiatives is great. As an old Member of Parliament, I think it's good and fun. But there are reasons why the order is as it is and that the government parties do not readily agree to committee initiatives. Because they want prepared questions coming from the government, and that is basically a good thing.
i-8119e264b4443733-419	Madam President, I would like Rural areas are the solution to many of tomorrow's problems, especially in terms of the transition to an environment- and climate-smart society. But with high and increased fuel taxes, we do not get the right development. This does not mean that we are changing the countryside more quickly to something else. People living and working in rural areas want to contribute to environmental and climate-smart cooperation, but at present they cannot afford to change. To a question the other day, the Prime Minister answered categorically: They must get an electric car. Does the Prime Minister know how much an electric car costs? Many rural people cannot afford more expenditure than they currently have. That is why high fuel taxes are a problem, and they will not be conducive to change in rural areas. I believe, however, that rural people would like to change. I previously lifted up the beach shelter and now return to it. The January Agreement provides for its review. It has been said many times before in Parliament that the beach shelter should be fixed, but nothing happens. We are never moving forward on this issue. Beach protection is really something very remarkable, and it hampers rural development. Everyone could in principle build at a beach-protected area, and yet we would not overexploit the coastal areas of Sweden. It is time we seriously made sure that the rule is that you must build and the exception that you must not build. I am convinced that we will be able to save the great biological values that exist in Sweden and along Sweden's waters anyway.
i-8119e264b4443733-424	Madam President and Mr Widegren. The honourable Member will be aware that it is difficult, if not impossible, to obtain risk capital in rural areas. Much of the venture capital exists in the big cities, and 50% of all venture capital exists in Stockholm.
i-C5SBZ97yhhCKq3v8yxVxbp	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Peter Helander, for the question! This is a very important question. Capital is extremely difficult in rural areas at all today. I believe that this is because we have a lack of profitability, which means that access to investment capital in rural areas is being cut off. Therefore, I think profitability is very important. As far as venture capital is concerned, I may not have a complete solution at the moment, but it is a matter of strengthening profitability, because we need to raise the market value in rural areas. This makes it easier to get money to build your home, for example.
i-8119e264b4443733-428	Madam President, I would like The issue has its background in what happened during the last parliamentary term, when the honourable Member was not present. At that time all parties voted away Inlandsinnovation which would be a special venture capital for Norrlandslänen, Värmland and Dalarna for the fact that market forces do not really work. All parties joined forces and voted away Inland innovation, because they said there was a geographical limitation. In my world, the whole point was that it was a geographical limitation and applied where venture capital was lacking. Does the honourable Member think it was a bad or good proposal to remove Inland innovation?
i-6T57N4VPDf3QP1D9FXsKwe	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Peter Helander! I will be completely honest and say that I am far too ill-read about this. I feel very excited to read about it in order to be able to have a better answer for the next time, but at this point I have to take care of it.
i-8119e264b4443733-431	Madam President, I would like Mr Widegren mentioned the fuel tax, and I agree. If anyone knows how much fuel it costs, it's me, 'cause I'm gonna drive $7,000 miles a year. Since we are talking about rural conditions, I would like to ask whether John Widegren seriously believes that it would lead to us moving into the countryside if we were to skip the whole tax on fuel.
i-8119e264b4443733-433	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birger Lahti, for the question. No, I don't think so. But I believe that fuel tax is an important part of people who live and work in rural areas today and that it is too high. I still believe that those living in rural areas will have a primary responsibility in the transition to an environment- and climate-smart society. At present, we have a bad trend that means that you suffer more than getting carrots when it comes to finding new solutions and suggestions for how to move forward.
i-8119e264b4443733-435	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Widegren, for your answer. I agree with a lot of what you say, John Widegren, but I think there would be the wrong signal to the public if we were to remove the tax on what we want to phase out. Does Widegren not think that there are other possibilities to compensate the countryside and those who need fossil fuels and cannot afford electric cars – even I think the electric cars are too expensive – than to remove the tax on what we want to phase out?
i-8119e264b4443733-437	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Birger Lahti. Yes, I absolutely think so! But we can't remove the entire treasure. Of course we should retain the fuel tax, because it is a tax that stimulates us to try to do other things. But if you look at the competitive situation and see that a Swedish farmer pays almost twice as much for his fuel as a German farmer, you realize the difference. We are going to produce food here instead of pushing that production out of the country because of excessive fuel costs.
i-8119e264b4443733-439	Madam President, I would like The spring change budget invested an extra 1 billion in rural areas, and I am very pleased about that. But in the budget adopted in December, which included the Moderates, it was not as positive. About 5,000 jobs were lost in rural areas. Should the Moderates have secured their budget rurally?
i-JPABbdTeS71SnP8AnpHEFy	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for the question! As far as the rural budget is concerned, I would like to say that we did many things that are good for rural areas in that budget. I think that Maria Gardfjell is thinking, for example, of the Swedish Forest Agency – I do not think that the whole solution to the problems in the countryside is the answer. I believe that state authorities and government jobs in rural areas are certainly not the solution, but it is by stimulating private enterprise and the rural economy that we are strengthening rural areas and generating more jobs.
i-8119e264b4443733-441	Madam President, I would like I meant, for example, all the companies that get jobs through the management of nature, not to mention the nature guides that received lower VAT. They also received this in the spring change budget. Why on earth would the Moderates want to raise the VAT rate for nature tours?
i-NAZC9ZB18RRaQCfNbtqUu7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for the question! Setting a budget is about setting priorities. We did not think it was the most important priority to keep VAT down on this type of job. We basically have the same VAT on many other jobs and services in rural areas, and then we could have the same VAT for them too. I do not believe that whether or not we have different VAT rates is what stimulates development.
i-8119e264b4443733-443	Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal for rural development programmes has three sub-objectives. They are extremely widely held and are based on the UN's 2030 Agenda. We think that Sweden's rural problems have specific characteristics. The objectives should therefore summarise the concrete measures needed to promote our rural development. On the basis of the UN agenda, instead of focusing on the needs and views of those concerned, it becomes top-down. Targets based on such views can nevertheless be reconciled with Agenda 2030 if the government so wishes and when it so wishes. I would like to hear the Government's point of view on this. Madam President, I would like The Strand Protection Act has been mentioned. The increase in areas of national interest and the increase in the number of forest fellings on private land stopped at the last moment are further examples of government interventions that reduce the freedom of rural people in favour of expert decisions. The principle of proportionality set out in the Administrative Act 2018 requires an official to assess before taking a decision whether the public interest actually outweighs the impact of the public interest involved. The application as intended of this law, including this principle, is very important and needs to be followed up. How is the government true that the principle of proportionality is now actually having the effect that it was reasonably intended to have? We believe that in instructions and regulatory letters to all authorities working against rural areas and, above all, in assisted areas, it should be recorded that the authorities have support and promotion tasks. The problem is not that there are too many positive initiatives in Swedish rural areas, but that there are too few. Entrepreneurs and enthusiasts must feel that they have the support of society, not that they are being put to the fore. SKL has long pushed the issue of more general state grants and that the number of different grants should be reduced. Targeted state grants are often accompanied by detailed requirements that increase the costs of municipalities, reduce efficiency and reduce the ability of small municipalities to apply for these grants. How does the government view this?
i-8119e264b4443733-447	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Mr Nordberg. We have a policy on regional tax bases because we want to ensure that something of what is created remains in the local location or in the local region where it is produced. Do the Swedish Democrats think this is a good proposal? I understand that the issue of regional tax bases is not being pursued.
i-AskyqXywUbiG9qv6We5WqJ	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Peter Helander! In the long term, I think it is a good thing to try to spread out what is currently state tax so that it is taken in by the regions. In Norway, for example, part of the hydropower tax goes to the regions concerned. It is true that we do not now have this on a proposal. However, we would like it to be further investigated and are in favour of instead of a round-up, which first collects government taxes and then sends out the same money in subsidies, trying to get taxes to stay where they are needed.
i-8119e264b4443733-451	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Mats Nordberg! The next issue is fuel taxation. I have calculated that the Swedish Democrats want to reduce the tax by 13 cents. This means a tax reduction of less than SEK 100 per year based on how much a car is normally driven. Do we not need stronger incentives in rural areas than the small part in order to achieve a level playing field?
i-8119e264b4443733-454	Madam President, I would like Much more cuts are needed. But first of all, we get it to 60 cents rather than 13. Even that is very little. And second, the most important thing was to remove the overindexation. We note that the Center Party did not even vote in favour of it.
i-8119e264b4443733-455	Madam President, I would like I will now say something about what the Center Party wants to achieve with rural development. First of all, we want the whole country to be put into service and not just for the whole country to live. We believe that a number of more concrete proposals are needed. I will try to be a little concrete now that I know that many are watching the debate. I have already mentioned a number of things that we have included in the January agreement. But I will mention a number of other points:
i-8119e264b4443733-458	We want higher education to exist throughout the country. We want to reform beach protection and review the national interest system, which currently covers 55% of Sweden's surface area. We want to decentralise both responsibilities and competences, from state level to elected regional parliaments. We want to allow farm sales of self-produced beer, cider and wine to the farm's visitors. The Center Party wants the food procured by municipalities and state to meet at least the requirements of Swedish regulations. We want the compulsory disposal of forests not to take place unless compensation can be paid at the time of infringement. Volunteering should be the starting point. We want ownership and use rights to be strengthened in the instructions to the Swedish Forest Agency, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Boards. We want people who live and are active in particularly vulnerable municipalities to be able to get a write-off of student debt. We want to see an increased effort on individual roads. We want to abolish building permits for commercial activities on our own farm. We want to decentralise at least 10,000 government jobs. We want to see regionalised tax bases. We want to see more visible police officers and more security for rural people. We would like the cost compensation proposal, which is under way, to be implemented on 1 January 2020. We do not want to see mandatory municipal mergers. We want to see a change in the rate of travel deduction that favours rural conditions. We want to introduce a specific rural deduction. We want better functioning regional game management. It shall be done by the establishment of a game authority. We say no to the over-implementing of the EU arms directive.
i-8119e264b4443733-477	Madam President, I would like The Center has historically claimed to be great friends in rural areas. This is still being done in politics. However, with regard to all the proposals that Peter Helander has now put forward, I wonder how to get everyone through when, in the kind of governance that we have now, we are allying ourselves with anti-rural parties in many ways. I believe that the Center Party will be responsible for the answer to how to deliver the things that an alliance government had driven hard.
i-8119e264b4443733-479	Madam President, I would like My first option would have been an alliance government. Unfortunately, we did not get the support of the Swedish people. I myself am negotiating many of the issues in the January agreement. I have a positive picture of our success. And I am absolutely convinced that many parties and the media will be watching every small step and that we will achieve the points in the January agreement. Does the honourable Member not also think that many of the points in the January agreement are good?
i-4SfQ4efNr7F3DReCaoJCmC	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the answer, Peter Helander! I see many good ambitions in those points – absolutely. I hope they don't stay at the investigation stage. Perhaps I am thinking in particular of the ownership inquiry, which has been an important issue for the Moderates for a long time. I believe that a ownership inquiry that had been set up by a moderate prime minister would have landed in a different way than a ownership inquiry commissioned by a Social Democratic Prime Minister. How does Peter Helander view it?
i-8119e264b4443733-483	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to hear from John Widegren that the Center Party will be involved in deciding how the investigation will be formed, who will be the investigator and all the other detailed directives in the investigation. We really share the same view on the principles of ownership issues.
i-8119e264b4443733-484	Madam President, I would like I would like to continue discussing tax reductions with Peter Helander. The House voted on 4 June not only on the fuel tax for passenger cars but also on the reduction of diesel tax for agricultural and forestry workers. SD suggested a significantly greater reduction than the one that went through. The Center Party did not vote in favour of that. I'd like an explanation of that.
i-8119e264b4443733-486	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, honourable Member. The honourable Member knows that the M-KD budget is based today. We negotiated with the government parties and the Liberals on our amending budget. We are now negotiating next year's budget. We have said that we are negotiating the budget year by year. We do not break out individual issues when there are budget negotiations. I think the honourable Member knows that too.
i-8119e264b4443733-488	Madam President, I would like In the longer term, Sweden must have about the same level of diesel prices for our farmers and foresters as competitors in Denmark, for example, which also has a strong environmental policy. I hope that the Center Party is working to achieve such a situation, so that our competitiveness will be as strong as theirs.
i-8119e264b4443733-490	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, honourable Member. We also stand up for farmers to have competitive conditions. It is one of our entrances to politics and also to negotiations with the government. We cannot have conditions that mean that we punish Swedish farmers and end up importing things that we ourselves have banned. That may actually be the case today.
i-8119e264b4443733-492	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Peter Helander, for a good debate! I would like to thank you once again for taking the initiative on this. I have a question I'd like to know how the Center Party is looking at. Wherever mines appear, there will be conflicts with the local community. How do you see the mineral fee? Could you work with it so that it becomes more accepted in local communities that there is a mine and that it provides more than just a few fly-in/ fly-out workers?
i-8119e264b4443733-495	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Birger Lahti. That's an important question you're raising. It has not escaped any of us what it has been like lately. People here too are starting to protest wildly against prospecting on their land without having a say. The Center Party wants a review of both the regulations and the fees. It is also a bit linked to ownership, as is the case with the forest. If the state or someone else wants to use someone's land, it should be compensated for.
i-8119e264b4443733-498	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Peter Helander, for the answer! I am pleased that you want to look at this. But I'm thinking mainly of something else. The Left Party has tried to point out that the mineral levy should also be reviewed. Maybe it should be higher, and maybe it should be degressive, that is, the more you breed, the lower it can be. It will be an incentive for local people to be involved in the discussion so that they can see that there may be more than just a few jobs for people who may be taxing elsewhere. Are you prepared to look at this as well?
i-8119e264b4443733-500	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Mr Birger, for the question. We in the Center Party are prepared to look at this. This applies not only to mines but also to wind power, hydroelectric power and much more where compensation has been obtained. You need to look at this. If you really think that property rights should be strong, it should also mean that the people who own the land and the population of the places that are affected should get something back.
i-8119e264b4443733-502	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask a question relating to the 73-point agreement. In this, there is talk of tax exchange and mention is made of 15 billion. This is a lot of money. Many in the country are concerned about what this will mean. Will there be a sharp increase in fuel charges, for example, even more than it is today?
i-8119e264b4443733-503	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Oscarsson, for the question. 15 billion in green tax exchange is huge. But the good thing about us being involved in steering the green tax shift is that we raise taxes on what is dangerous and bad and lower them on jobs and entrepreneurship. This will thus stimulate jobs and entrepreneurship; that is the whole idea of green tax exchange. You get rid of what is dangerous and invest in what is good, that is, work and entrepreneurship. We have not agreed to any overindexation of petrol or fuel prices for next year.
i-8119e264b4443733-506	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Helander, for your answer! This is still worrying. Since we are talking about so much money, many are very concerned that it will affect those living in the country even more. I have another question concerning the mileage tax. Is it going back in? We are also talking about this and about a lot of money. Is it for the countryside hostile mileage tax coming in?
i-QxfxXADMYXnuQ4tS534mk2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Oscarsson, for the question. If I and the Center Party can decide... and we now have a certain position to be able to decide... there will be no mileage tax.
i-8119e264b4443733-509	Madam President, I would like Peter Helander had an impressive list of things they want to bet on. It is indeed at this concrete level that we need to discuss rural policy. I welcome this. Peter Helander himself raised the question of how we get more capital to the countryside. It is important that rural areas take advantage of modern technology and do not become a dumping site for old technology from big cities. How does the Center Party view this issue?
i-8119e264b4443733-511	Madam President, I would like That's an interesting question. I have discussed it with people who are involved in digitalisation and new technologies. They believe that when we are going to try new technology and digitalisation, we should do so in the country, where it is relatively simple. There are not many people there, and if something goes wrong, you can correct it. To start something in Stockholm City which then goes wrong would be a disaster.
i-8119e264b4443733-512	Madam President, I would like Many thanks for your answer! I myself have had similar thoughts about, for example, small health centres. There it may be difficult to get more doctors or a more extensive activity. It could invest in digitalisation and develop technology in combination with maintaining a health centre in a small location. Madam President, I would like I think we should work on this and discuss much more.
i-QXaJvp8o7op9rULbwC6UJT	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your reply, Mr Gardfjell. I've been to the rural medical center of Storuman. That's where you're already working on the question. There is no need for research on this, but we can only start implementing what they are doing today. They have an amazing business. I would advise many of the Members to visit the Glesbygdsmedicinal centre in Storuman.
i-8119e264b4443733-515	Madam President, I would like Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for a good debate. First of all, I would like to start with a concrete approach. Of course, the Left Party sees that the system we have today will not apply to all municipalities in the affected country. We are part of the country that brings human capital to the big cities. It is we who supply raw materials, supply electricity and have the forest and ore. Yet it is we who have the highest taxes, and we find it difficult to cope with everyday life. We can't have this. The tax equalisation system and the cost equalisation system must, of course, be reviewed. We can't have what it is today. More should remain in the towns and municipalities with hydroelectric power, mines and natural resources. Otherwise, we will retain these conflicts. They will certainly be there anyway, but we must have something that triggers the population so that they see that there are more than a few fly-in/ fly-out workers flying in and working 7:7. So there is a lot to be done, and I am delighted that this debate has started. Just as someone was in on, at least something happened during the last parliamentary term. The government actually set up a rural committee to look at this. All parties agreed on over 70 points that should be addressed. The Left, however, looks at the equality of the country. We've been pulled apart. Reducing taxes on the wealthy does not provide rural development. You must all agree with that. Those who receive these tax reductions do not exist in rural areas. I agree that those who run businesses in the country need to be made easier. It cannot be that half the day is spent filling out papers. But the market will never fix anything that poses challenges in rural areas. I'm convinced of that. Thank you for a good debate!
i-8119e264b4443733-523	Madam President, I would like The brochure If the crisis or war comes, all households have been given access. I think it's great that it's been developed. But the basis for coping with the crisis or war is, my friends, a living countryside. Today, our self-sufficiency in food is below 50%. Each week, four or five dairy farmers end. Why? Because profitability is too bad. Sweden has a food strategy, and I think it is very important that we have one. It talks about better profitability, more competitiveness and a higher self-sufficiency of food. Unfortunately, nothing happens. We see that this is not noticed at farm level, and that is alarming. We need more soil and a living countryside that can produce more food. Another concern that I would like to highlight while standing here is the problem of wild boar. When I go around the area where I live, you're all worried that there are so many wild boars. They destroy for 1.5 billion only for the peasants. Something more needs to be done here, and you can't cross your arms. The government has done some things, and I welcome what has been done. I hope and wish that there will be more. We are open to help with this so that we can get to grips with the work of reducing the wild boar strain. It is extremely important for rural people.
i-8119e264b4443733-526	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have spoken warmly that we should have an effective climate policy and refer to the Institute of Economic Development. But the Institute of Economics says that climate taxes on fuel and petrol are the most effective climate policy. Why do you not advocate the most effective climate policy, Magnus Oscarsson?
i-8119e264b4443733-527	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for her very important question. We find that people living in rural areas, which we are talking about here today, are dependent on having a car. As I said before, many people notice that if you go and sit down by a road there will be no bus. There's no subway. Here in Stockholm you can choose from a lot, but out in the country you can't. There you have to have the car, and to drive a car you obviously need fuel.
i-8119e264b4443733-528	Madam President, I would like Of course you need the car in the countryside. But there are also other ways to work to strengthen rural opportunities, for example to change travel deductions and work more proactively to bring new fuels – fossil-free fuels – to the market at lower prices. Why is it not a melody that the Christian Democrats can support?
i-8119e264b4443733-529	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell and continue on her melody. That's a nice tune she was talking about. Of course we want better environmental cars. But one fact that remains is that it costs a lot to buy a car that is powered by battery, for example. Instead, the government has worked to subsidise electric bicycles. I don't think that's in line with the needs of the real people in the country.
i-8119e264b4443733-531	Madam President, I would like To make the whole country live, we also need to protect property rights. We must also encourage innovations around the various strengths of our counties, such as the forest raw material in Värmland. Environmental and nature conservation efforts will be conducted in good dialogue with landowners who have managed and managed their forests and land through many generations. The reform of beach protection rules must not affect rural areas. We welcome the development of LIS areas in order to increase the attractiveness of rural settlements. A living countryside is also about functioning communications. It is important for jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country. Investment in rail, road and other infrastructure is still needed. No country in the EU has as far between the senders as Sweden. Furthermore, we are becoming more and more people on earth, and there is a need for sustainable food production that can feed everyone. In Sweden, we want the entire country's development power to be taken advantage of. Farms are important for living rural areas, for jobs, for biodiversity and for us to have good food on the table. Sweden also has many competitive advantages. Swedish food is climate-smart and produced with good animal care and environmental considerations. It is a competitive advantage to be protected. Unfortunately, the rules agreed at EU level are not being complied with. Madam President, I would like The rural issue is much about entrepreneurship and good communications. But it is also a question of a balance between rights and obligations for land and forest owners. It is also about sustainable agriculture. That's how we make all of Sweden live.
i-8119e264b4443733-537	Madam President, I would like The Green Party wants to strengthen rural opportunities. Among other things, we want property taxes from wind and hydro power to remain in the municipalities. Better financing models for infrastructure investment and maintenance are also needed. The snow can't just be plowed on Thursdays, wrote the former chairman of All of Sweden will live, Inez Abrahamsson, in a recent chronicle. I think it is worth following the Inland uprising and many of the debaters who are there – perhaps not all, but many. There is also a need for better investment in schools, public services, health care and so on. Lessons should be learned from the positive nature of the investment in the country trade and how it has been strengthened in recent years. Corresponding efforts should be made on public services. For sparsely populated municipalities, there is a need for greater investment, lower social security contributions and higher basic deductions. The Green Party also proposes that young people who settle in rural areas should be allowed to write off their student loans. There is a need for nurses, doctors, dentists, teachers, preschool teachers, entrepreneurs and civil servants in rural municipalities. That is why this is needed. Food is one of the most important rural issues. The ambition of the food strategy is to develop agriculture. It must be done on the basis of climate thinking and reduced vulnerability. Investments in organic farming, small-scale food processing and, of course, municipal procurement with animal welfare and environmental requirements are the basis for strengthening rural areas in the future. All of Sweden will grow and live!
i-8119e264b4443733-542	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for her speech. She mentioned the matter of settling in the countryside. We talked about it before, too. I see a rather big problem, for example, in my own municipality of residence. Young people who want to build their future home find it very difficult to get money for it, because once they have built this house for 4 million it is only worth 1 1⁄2 million on the market. What's Maria Gardfjell thinking there?
i-8119e264b4443733-543	Madam President, I would like I thank John Widegren for the question. I think that this is one of the really big issues: building individual properties but also multi-family houses, retirement homes, youth housing and so on in rural areas. These homes are needed in the countryside. The market is not prepared or interested to make these investments, nor are mortgage institutions on their toes. I believe that the image of rural areas needs to be changed, but perhaps we also need to go in with government initiatives.
i-8119e264b4443733-544	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell for her reply. Yeah, it's a big worry. I believe that one solution over others is to strengthen green industries and increase profitability, so that it becomes more attractive to settle in the country. Maria Gardfjell mentioned in her second speech food production and its importance. The Green Party has a love for always landing in organic production instead of talking about the fantastic Swedish production, both the organic and the conventional. How do you look at it?
i-8119e264b4443733-546	Madam President, I would like The Green Party obviously wants to strengthen the opportunities for Sweden's farmers to have a better economy. This applies to both organic farming and conventional agriculture. I do not see in essence any huge contradiction between organic and conventional operation. The reason why we are happy to highlight organic production is the great need that now exists to meet the major challenges, including the challenge of coping with our bees, bumble bees and other pollinating insects.
i-8119e264b4443733-547	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Gardfjell. Speaking of country merchants, the real country merchants are today the gas stations. As we move forward towards more electric cars, people will refuel them at home. I have no solution myself, but the question I would like to ask is: how do we manage the supply of rural goods? Then I would like to ask a question about 5G. When the government has issued licences for 5G, they have not been subject to conditions throughout the country, I heard on TV yesterday, but it may be an uncertain source. What are Maria Gardfjell's views?
i-8119e264b4443733-549	Madam President, I would like The investments at the country merchants also apply to the gas stations. The change of fuel is also important. It comes in fossil-free fuels in the regular fuels, so that every Swedish gets a little bit of the climate initiatives with it. It is also very important that other fuels – biogas, HVO, biodiesel and so on – can be refuelled.
i-8119e264b4443733-552	Madam President, I would like As far as interference is concerned, it is extremely important that it should not be carried out in such a way that subtropical or tropical forests are harvested in order to produce biofuels.
i-8119e264b4443733-554	Madam President, I would like The previous government took important initiatives in the EU, which has enabled a large Swedish production of biofuels to start and to start. I am very much in favour of that.
i-8119e264b4443733-555	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your speech, Mr Gardfjell. I would like to talk a little about trust and trust – trust and confidence in the Swedish authorities, politics, power and Stockholm and the lack of this in rural areas. How can we rebuild confidence in our authorities, the Swedish Forest Agency, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Board in the future?
i-8119e264b4443733-557	Madam President, I would like Many thanks, Peter Helander, for the question! I think this is one of the most important and perhaps difficult questions to talk about. I have seen how trust has deteriorated only in recent years, how farmers have lost faith in society after the big drought last year and how individuals in different places do not respect, for example, irrigation bans.
i-8119e264b4443733-559	Madam President, I would like I've been traveling around the country. Especially in the interior of Norrland you can see that there is a huge frustration about how someone from Stockholm, as they say there, decides over their lives. In Arjeplog you have three lakes per person, and you can't understand why you can't build near the beach. You can't take it to heart. When I'm out meeting municipalities, I also notice their frustration with their own county board. It's huge.
i-8119e264b4443733-561	Madam President, I would like Again, thank you for the question. As far as beach protection is concerned, we agree that there will be a review. There has been the possibility of exemption already before, which different municipalities have handled in a slightly different way. This has also been done by various county boards. That is one of the reasons why we are looking at this. But I think that trust and confidence in us politicians are about my party, about your party and about all our parties. Here we need to work together to strengthen this.
i-8119e264b4443733-563	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Maria Gardfjell a question. One point in the 73-point programme is that roads should be improved. It is an important issue that is being raised there. We see a great difference between you in different parts of the country, and my question is: how will it be ensured that the money comes to those who need it?
i-8119e264b4443733-565	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. I must admit that I am not really familiar with the details of the proposal. But I expect that there will be an increase in money in the budget, quite simply, and that will ensure that the money goes to the right areas and the right investments. It is extremely important that we get better road maintenance of the existing roads, not least in Norrland.
i-8119e264b4443733-567	Madam President, I would like I'm thinking about something else, too. We talked earlier here about tax exchanges of 15 billion. The question is, where will the money be taken? That's a lot of money. A burning question is therefore: Will the government introduce some kind of mileage tax? Is it about to be introduced?
i-8119e264b4443733-569	Madam President, I would like The very point of the green tax shift is that you put a price on environmental damage and then make sure that you invest in things that are good for the environment and, above all, I hope, in rural areas. I believe that the discussions currently taking place between the four parties that are behind the January agreement will be interesting here. I believe that financing models are needed to cope with road maintenance in the future. But what they're supposed to look like, we don't know.
i-8119e264b4443733-571	Madam President, I would like Thank you, everyone who has taken part in the debate. It has been a fruitful debate, and it has been an important debate. I think it becomes clear from the debate that the issue is broad. A much broader allocation is required than dealing with one issue at a time. If we really want to change the conditions for people to live, live and run companies throughout Sweden, we need to work on virtually all policy areas. All political parties also need to take responsibility – not only in words but also in action. It is not possible to say with any kind of seriosity that one is prepared to invest in the whole of Sweden to live or that the welfare should be equal throughout Sweden with less than that one also admits that it will of course cost money. It will cost priorities. I hope that when the spotlight moves from this particular issue to some other issue and when the roll call out in the country is no longer what will fit in tomorrow's newspapers, we are still standing firm and think that this is as important as you have expressed today. If you do, together we will be able to deliver well in this area. I will do everything I can, and I hope that you will do everything you can.
