i-4321f287b652663a-0	Mr President, I would like to Jan Ericson has asked me about the Swedish Transport Agency's misleading statement on the issue of the taxation of motor homes. I have previously answered a written question by Jan Ericson on the taxation of motor homes. I would like to make it clear once again that there were no changes to the rules on vehicle taxation on 1 September 2019. On the other hand, the shift to a new test method for exhaust emissions under common EU rules, the WLTP, affects vehicle taxation for certain motor homes. The task of the Swedish Transport Agency is to apply the current regulations. It is very unfortunate that the Transport Agency has, in a short period of time, gone out with conflicting data on the consequences of the new EU rules. As I pointed out earlier in the answer to the written question, I assume that the Authority will review its procedures to ensure that this is not repeated.
i-4321f287b652663a-3	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I am not satisfied with the Government's response. My question was, of course, how the Minister intends to keep manufacturers, dealers and customers harmless for the misleading information provided by the Swedish Transport Agency on the issue of the taxation of motor homes. After all, this question is not answered at all. Mr President, I would like to Let's start from the beginning. Last spring there was a great stir around the Swedish Transport Agency's threat of new taxation rules for new motor homes. The industry was worried, and many motorhome buyers were waiting. Then came a good news at the end of July, when the Transport Agency's manager went out with a clear public message in a debate article in the Gothenburg-Posten. "When the new legislation comes into force on 1 September, the levying of vehicle tax on motor homes will not change," she wrote. It can hardly be any clearer. The industry pushed out, and the sale of the next model year of motorhomes for delivery to spring rolled on. A month later, on 23 August, the Swedish Transport Agency did so completely over, just one week before the new calculation model WLTP would enter into force. From 1 September 2019, certain motorhomes shall be tested with a new test method for CO2 emissions and fuel consumption. This value will serve as a basis for taxation. According to the industry, the decision covers 95% of motor homes marketed on the market. During the month that passed many dealers in good faith ordered motorhomes of the 2020 model, which will not be sold. Manufacturers will have to reduce production. Those who bought motor homes during the summer for delivery in the spring will have an unexpected tax shock, and many will also refrain from switching to more environmentally friendly and safer motor homes. The question is what prompted the Swedish Transport Agency to make a complete change in the matter. Was it their own decision, or was it under pressure from the government? Mr President, I would like to In its reply, the Government states that the Swedish Transport Agency's task is to apply the applicable regulations. However, EU rules only apply to exhaust measurement, not taxation. If the government wishes, it can of course give the Swedish Transport Agency a directive not to allow the new exhaust regulations to form the basis for taxation. In fact, if half of all speculators refrain from buying new motorhomes and import from abroad, the state loses more money than you gain from the increased tax due to the loss of large VAT revenues. It is probably a pure gain for the Treasury to stop the new taxation. Mr President, I would like to Yesterday, representatives of the motor home industry met with two State Secretary of the Government Office to discuss the matter. The state secretaries' message was, briefly, that they saw the problems but that it was not possible to do anything about it. My question to the Government is, of course, why it is not possible. Moreover, do all four parties behind the state budget agree to allow the Swedish Transport Agency's announcement of a sharp increase in taxes, or are only the two government parties behind this? Mr President, I would like to During a visit to the motorhome and caravan fair at Elmia a few weeks ago, I announced the Moderates' line on the matter. We believe that the first decision by the Swedish Transport Agency should of course apply. The levying of vehicle tax on motor homes shall not change as a result of the new way of measuring exhaust gases. It is a question of decency that one as a Swedish citizen should be able to rely on a clear and unreserved public message from a responsible official of a Swedish authority. I find it remarkable that Minister Eneroth is so casually rejecting the question. It devalues trust in Swedish politics and authorities. Mr President, I would like to Let me repeat my four questions to Minister Eneroth: Has the Government in any way influenced the Swedish Transport Agency to change its first decision?
i-4321f287b652663a-19	Why is it not possible to allow the Transport Agency's first decision to apply? What else does the Government intend to do to keep those affected harmless?
i-4321f287b652663a-20	Mr President, I would like to There are several different parts to the question of the tax on motor homes. It is a question of the responsible authority's response and the Ministry of Finance's response being both non-answers and referrals that are misleading. One refers to the other. It is also the case that Sweden stands out with introducing the tax compared to what is done in countries around us. This affects us, as we have just heard. It is also about tourism, about the industry, about growth and about motorhome owners. In fact, it is remarkable that the Ministry of Finance and the Swedish Transport Agency refer to different information. There have been conflicting data to a whole industry, which has been trying to get answers in the first half of this year. The whole spring was spent trying to get in touch with and an answer from the Ministry of Finance and the Swedish Transport Agency. The motor vehicle industry wrote last summer – in the middle of the holidays, when it is booming – in the Gothenburg-Posten. I wrote about the situation at the same time in Sydsvenskan. There has been very unclear information. These messages are important both for those who are going to buy and for a whole industry that is going to handle it. It was not possible to misunderstand what was said in the Gothenburg-Post of the Authority that there would be no tax on motor homes, just as Jan Ericson has mentioned. Then you also expect it to be that way. On 23 August, this conflicting message came – a counter-declaration from the Swedish Transport Agency's press officer. That was the message: you are to pay taxes! This took place one week before 1 September, when the new rules were due to come into force. The Swedish Transport Agency then said that they made a mistake with the information and that there is a tax increase. How is that possible, one might ask. The second part of this motor home tax havoc, if you may call it that, is that neither Germany nor Norway choose the Swedish government's road with a large tax increase on motor homes. This means that Sweden alone stands with this introduction. It strangles a branch of tourism in its own country. Furthermore, competition is distorted, and that is bad. In addition, action can lead to grey imports – parallel imports, as Jan Ericson mentioned – from Europe. If you lose your tax revenue, there'll be no profit on the whole thing. We also get dismissals and layoffs and a smaller industry if people choose to buy in another way. It is not justifiable to allow radical and unreasonable tax increases to penalise an entire industry and a specific vehicle type. Two years ago a motorhome owner paid 5 000 SEK in tax. Then the tax was raised to 14 000, and now we are up to a sum just below 30 000 or around. It is not reasonable to impose a flat-rate tax on mobile homes in this way and to equate this withdrawal with the withdrawal for a heavy truck. Nor does it give a true picture of the climate impact of motor homes. A camper is driven on average significantly less per year than a heavy truck. Therefore, this is an unreasonable tax for motorhome owners, and it hits the Swedish motorhome industry hard. The motor vehicle industry has a turnover of 15 billion per year and 74 per cent of them come from domestic tourism. There are 100,000 registered mobile homes in Sweden, and about 5,000 people work in the industry. I would like to add my voice to the questions put by Jan Ericson and await the answer from the Government.
i-Gt8weQ9jEgRkLm5eZt2H3M	Mr President, I would like to Thank you both Jan Ericson and Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson! In the first post it is argued that I would somehow take lightly on the Swedish Transport Agency's wrong message. I definitely don't. You have to be able to trust the authorities. In a debate article, which is certainly an unusual way of communicating government perceptions, a false answer was given. I will mention this in an official dialogue. It is important to correct this; such mistakes must not happen. There was also a correction, both under hand and then in public. I am more concerned about the light-heartedness of Jan Ericson, not least, in relation to the climate issue and the climate crisis. I'm going to quote Jan Ericson, "Thanks to increased carbon dioxide, the earth is getting greener." I do not believe that there is any research support at all for the existence of a climate crisis. "This is what Jan Ericson said, representing a party that is now making progress and not just criticising the climate tax on the vehicle fleet, but proposing a multi-billion-dollar reduction in the tax on petrol. I don't know if it's 6 billion or 5 billion. I'm a little curious to hear if Jan Ericson can account for how much that tax reduction should be. This is in a situation where millions of young people are demonstrating on the streets of the world of concern for the climate crisis. Greta Thunberg is perhaps the most famous Swede right now. World experts are talking about the conditions for compliance with the Paris Agreement, and we are seeing reports of concern about the increasing climate crisis around the world. You can choose your questions to focus on. Of course, official communication should be correct. This is important, and we will emphasise this in the dialogue with the authorities. It is important in relation to industries so that you know the right conditions. The fact that for a few weeks in July and August there was a lack of clarity as to which information is valid is not good. If anyone experiences damage because of this, they have to turn to the Chancellor of Justice. There is, of course, an order and structure for this in Sweden. But the starting point must be that one should be able to rely on the authorities. There is no pressure or anything else from the Government Office or Government, as claimed in the interpellation. Again, I find it worrying when representatives of one of the major opposition parties take such lightly on the climate crisis and so obviously choose other economic priorities in terms of what efforts we should make to steer the transport sector towards sustainability. The draft budgets that we have put on Parliament's table from the parties behind and have presented the draft budgets are, of course, fixed.
i-4321f287b652663a-41	Mr President, I would like to Now it is not the Government that questions or criticises members in interpellation debates, but it is the Members who ask questions to the Government. I do not think that the climate issue justifies the authorities giving wrong information to the citizens. That's what this interpellation is about. It is not about the climate debate, it is about what information from a Swedish authority you have the right to trust. And there, in fact, Tomas Eneroth as the responsible minister has the task of ensuring that the authorities do the job they should. Tomas Eneroth mentions government dialogue as a solution to this. Yes, it may be an internal solution between the minister and the authority, but it does not help the people who have been affected by this. Tomas Eneroth says that one of the major motor home manufacturers in Sweden, who has announced 25 people because of this unfortunate increase in taxes on motor homes, can turn to the Chancellor of Justice. I do not think that the Chancellor of Justice will raise such a question. Nor do I think it is a matter for the Chancellor of Justice that all the dealers with whom I have been in contact will be allowed to sell far fewer motor homes, which will mean that they will have to alert staff. The big problem is that you equate campers with other heavy vehicles, just as Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson mentioned here. The caravan is a very special type of vehicle. In France, for example, it is considered to be a house on wheels, and I understand that no vehicle tax is levied at all on motor homes in France. In Sweden we have a completely different approach. Thus, with the new rules, you should pay up to 35 000 SEK a year in vehicle tax for a camper. That is, of course, totally unreasonable and unreasonable. Unfortunately, I think the Government is taking this a little too lightly. After all, I know Minister Eneroth as a serious and experienced politician and still find it difficult to believe that, deep down, he thinks that this is reasonable, either the tax level or that a Swedish authority goes out publicly in a newspaper and so categorically and clearly gives the Swedish people the message: When the new legislation comes into force on 1 September, the levying of vehicle tax on motor homes does not change. That's what you write in the paper. This clear message to the industry and customers is signed by the agency's manager, and a month later, just the opposite is done and people are fooled. I find that totally unacceptable. The Government should take it much more seriously and not only refer to a forthcoming government dialogue, but take up the issue and say, as has been done in Norway, for example: We postpone the decision and make a proper analysis of how motorhomes should reasonably be taxed. There is another strange effect of this. Really large and heavy motor homes are taxed in a different way, i.e. like heavy trucks. This means that a really large, heavy and exclusive motorhome can have a vehicle tax of only SEK 4 000 – 5 000 a year, while the smaller motorhomes receive SEK 30 000 a year in vehicle tax. This is completely unreasonable. Then we should reasonably review what is a reasonable taxation of a camper and, in the meantime, freeze the decision of the Swedish Transport Agency, in accordance with the information that was actually given to people this summer. The moderate line is that we should stand by what the authority has said and then look at the issue in peace. That would have been a reasonable way of dealing with it.
i-4321f287b652663a-49	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Transport Agency is the responsibility of the Minister for Infrastructure, while this also concerns other areas of the Government Office and both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry. The fact that people choose to holiday in the motorhome benefits both rural and sparsely populated. It contributes to trade and consumption in places that need revenue to maintain businesses and jobs. This has not least been mentioned in the Government Declaration. Through their purchases in our elongated country, those who vacation in the motorhome contribute to the survival of grocery stores, refuelling points and local attractions. Sales of locally produced handicrafts and products also receive an extra boost. The tourism industry is one of Sweden's fastest growing industries. It creates opportunities for growth, employment and development across the country. Given what the Minister for Infrastructure just replied to Jan Ericson, one can consider whether this part of our business community, where we vacation and make impressions when we move, is supposed to be removed from Sweden. Should we stop having a tourism industry, given the discussion that is taking place? Or is it reasonable for us in Sweden to make decisions that on the whole do not have such an impact? I think this is a remarkable discussion that does not lead to how Sweden should move forward in the world. The government has established that Sweden's attractiveness as a destination is an important issue and states on its website that more tourists and longer stays provide the tourism industry with great business opportunities in its various industries. The Minister for Industry! Should we have a tourism industry, and should Swedish people be able to move around the country? I want answers on whether we should have a Transport Board that gives the right information and whether we can do as in Norway.
i-4321f287b652663a-55	Mr President, I would like to I must say that I am surprised at the last speech by Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. We have seen a sharp increase in the tourism industry in Sweden in recent years. We have set a record for camping tourism. This government has ensured that the tourism industry has been strengthened properly. It may be that Swedes choose to vacation more at home and that Tu rister comes here thanks to our fantastic nature, our opportunity to offer good destinations, our exchange rate or other. Let us just note that the tourism industry is developing positively. To think that this would change radically because an authority in a debate article in the Gothenburg-Post gives an incorrect answer, I think, quite frankly, is to draw a little bit of change on an issue. Of course, it is not acceptable for an authority to give false information. We need to be able to trust authorities. It therefore had to be corrected, and it was done after a number of weeks. As a minister, I take this seriously, and that is why we are addressing it in an official dialogue. In fact, some other indirect governance is limited to me. Otherwise, it is called ministerial government, and then I can talk to the members of the Constitutional Committee, which I would prefer to avoid. It is therefore important to make it clear in the dialogue with the authorities and in other ways that it must be the right information from the authority. It is not only in the question of information that the Moderates are squeezed into, but in the question of taxation. Of course, in their budget, the Moderates will have completely different priorities. You want to reduce taxes on what is climate policy. We could see this in the M-KD-SD budget, which you voted for barely a year ago and which contained substantial savings on climate policy. In addition, your public statement that you do not intend to raise carbon taxes but, on the contrary, to reduce taxes on what is harmful to the environment is a clear signal of how seriously the Moderates take the climate issue. I am concerned about this. I am concerned when members of the Swedish Parliament say that there is no climate crisis or that increased carbon dioxide makes the earth greener – this in a situation where millions of young people around the world are concerned and engaged and when the world's research experts say that we need to act here and now. In Sweden we have had a broad consensus on this for a long time, with climate law and climate preparation, but the new wave of populism I see within the Moderates makes me worried. As far as the basic issue is concerned, one should of course be able to rely on the authorities' advice. If there are mistakes, as it did in this case when a misinformation was given in a debate article, it shall be corrected as soon as possible. Does Jan Ericson have any idea how many vehicles were sold during the four weeks when there was uncertainty about the taxation of the motor vehicle industry? If you suffer from injuries, we have a system in Sweden that means that you can turn to the Chancellor of Justice. You should be able to rely on official statements, and they should be corrected if there are errors. A statement in a debate article in the Gothenburg-Post should of course be correct, and it was not. But to believe that it changes the conditions for, for example, the development of the entire Swedish tourism industry is, with permission, not a serious argumentation. Again, Jan Ericson is guilty of the answer on the issue of climate change. Do the Moderates not see the climate crisis ahead of us? Don't you understand the news coming from the world's experts? Don't you hear the young people who are demonstrating on the streets of the world? Are you losing your mind about what's going on right now? That makes me worried, for I still thought the Moderates were a large opposition party prepared to take responsibility for the major issues of the future as well.
i-4321f287b652663a-67	Mr President, I would like to The Government continues to try to lead this into something completely different from what it is about. This is not a climate debate, but we are debating the tax on motor homes. In their budget, the Moderates invested as much money as the Social Democrats did only a few years earlier. The fact that the Minister calls this a catastrophic slaughter is quite interesting. Moreover, I do not believe that increased taxation on motor homes solves the earth's climate problems. We have received data from the motorhome industry that this year's sales of motorhomes have so far decreased by 50 percent. It's pretty dramatic. One of the major manufacturers has announced 25 people, and a number of retailers will also give notice. We talk a lot about tourism and green industries and about holidaying at home instead of flying to Thailand. At the same time, one of these branches, i.e. the motor home ownership, is taxed. It doesn't make sense if you take the climate issue seriously. All four parties in the January agreement are behind the announcement from the Swedish Transport Agency. Thus, all four parties are co-responsible for not being able to trust a Swedish authority. The decision therefore remains valid despite the fact that the authority has given a different answer. I think it's pretty serious. Let me repeat the moderate line: we believe that the first message from the Swedish Transport Agency should apply. You have to be able to trust an authority. The long-term taxation of motor homes will then be investigated in peace and quiet, given the specific nature of the motor home. It is not primarily a means of transport but a leisure accommodation on wheels. The fact that the Minister would not be able to give instructions to an authority on how to deal with such a complex issue is, of course, not true. Of course he can do it if he wants to do it. The question can even be raised in the Riksdag. Of course it can be resolved, and I hope that the Minister will take this seriously.
i-4321f287b652663a-74	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Jan Ericson avoids the climate debate and does not want it here even if, seriously, issues of CO2 taxation and taxation of the vehicle fleet are now a climate issue. The transport sector accounts for the largest share of emissions. The Climate Policy Council points out that the biggest challenge we have is to reach the 70% target for the transport sector. We have come a long way and are about halfway, but much remains to be done. I have my background in the automotive industry and am well aware of the major challenges facing both the motor vehicle industry and the other automotive industry in terms of the conversion work. Here is a strong commitment and a willingness to change, find new drivelines and cope with the climate challenge. One is not helped in this work by the belief that the absence of control signals is the best possibility. We invest in research, development and innovation. It is the best way to cope with the transition and show the outside world that it is possible to change. Again, I am concerned that in recent years the Moderates have chosen to down-prioritise climate policy in a situation where all of Sweden's parties should have a completely different priority. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. We could do so much more, which could spread hope in the environment and create economic policy conditions for not least the Swedish automotive industry in the export world's various markets. As far as the basic issue is concerned, it is unfortunate that an authority gives an incorrect answer in a debate article. Such things must be corrected. But it is also unfortunate if one believes that an incorrect statement in a debate article, which is corrected a few weeks later, has absolutely insurmountable consequences for Swedish tourism. Of course, as a minister, I will act in dialogue with the Swedish Transport Agency so that the mistake is not repeated and wrong information is given. Once again, the climate issue is something that we must take seriously, and I think it is clear from this debate that the Moderates no longer do.
i-4321f287b652663a-81	Mr President, I would like to Runar Filper has asked me whether the government intends to start a Swedish advocacy work with the aim of changing current EU legislation or to introduce an exemption for the sale of seal products from the protection hunt within the EU. Swedish small-scale and coastal fishing has major problems with damage of seals to gear and catch. Protection hunting is an important tool in preventing such damage, along with the development of alternative tools. In 2018, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency announced a permit to hunt for nearly 1,400 seals along the Swedish coast in order to protect fishermen's gear against seal damage. Within the framework of these permits, nearly a thousand seals were felled. By decision of 18 July 2019, the Government has made it possible for the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to decide on licence hunting for grey seal. The change will enter into force on 29 November this year. In 2009, a ban on the import and sale of seal products was introduced within the EU. However, as a result, among other things, of Swedish advocacy work, an exception was added for the continued sale of seal producers from the protection hunt within the EU. After a dispute in the World Trade Organisation (WTO), the Swedish exemption was removed in 2015, despite an active effort by the government and other actors to maintain it. Sweden pointed out that the seal hunt in Sweden was conducted as a protection hunt with limited commercial interest. A fundamental principle of the WTO acquis is that members must not treat domestic and imported products differently. It is important to point out that there has been no EU criticism of the protection hunt as such, which is a national matter. In addition, protection hunting provides research and environmental monitoring with important facts regarding, among other things, the environmental status of the Baltic Sea and what seals eat. Those who send in all or part of shot seals may receive compensation for this. The issue of trade in seal products has been dealt with several times in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, most recently in report 2017/ 18:NU11. The Industry Committee rejected the motion in question and stated in its position, among other things, that there is great opposition to seal hunting within the EU, that the issue has played its part in the near future and that the possibilities for pursuing the issue at present were deemed to be very small. The Committee on the Environment and Agriculture highlighted this in report 2018/ 19:MJU9 and shared the assessment of the Committee on Economic Affairs. Sweden must comply with the legislation in force and is thus prevented from selling seal products within the EU under the current EU legislation. The government agrees with the committee's assessment that there is very little chance of taking up the issue in the future.
i-HrMNmdnZSvncTCPLuaXWbg	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the interpellation! I understand the government's view on the question and, not least, I received a similar answer earlier on to a written question that I put here this spring. But the number of seals in southern Sweden has increased dramatically, and this is noticeable for coastal fishermen, who are becoming fewer and fewer. In addition to competing with fishermen, the so-called seal mask spreads to cod, which in itself has proved to be a nuisance. The Swedish Fishermen's Producer Organisation wants the EU ban on trading in seal products to be dismantled so that more people will want to hunt seals, but there is no incentive to reach the quotas for protection hunting, which in itself is good. There are 1,500 grey seals, 305 bays and 440 chubby seals to shoot, but when you don't get paid for the effort, it's hard to feel enthusiasm for hunting. The fact that the parliament commissioned the government to introduce seal hunting and that the government has now listened to this and finally got there is great, but the question is whether it is enough. International rules prohibit, as we know, the sale of seal meat or fur. That's why I've put this interpellation. The ban was introduced to protect seals against poaching, but now that Sweden is introducing licence hunting, the ban should be reviewed and, by extension, removed. Failure to sell the meat and fur of seals may result in sellers not taking care of the bodies of the shot seals, which sink to the bottom. It will be quite difficult, and you have no incentive to take advantage of them. This is also an ethical issue. Shooting animals without taking advantage of the body is not justifiable and not good game care at all. It is likely that other incentives will be needed if we are to succeed in reducing seal stocks. We have to shoot thousands more seals than today if it's going to make any difference. It is about the self-sufficiency of food with fish from the sea. We are now seeing an increase in votes in favour of this issue. There is a great deal of interest in it, and it cannot be impossible to change this if you just want to. As I said, shooting animals without taking advantage of the body is not justifiable and not good game management. Historically, meat, skin and fat have been a commodity. Norrbotten has raised the issue further within the Baltic Sea Commission region network, where regions around the Baltic Sea gather. The reason is that it is hoped that it will be possible to get a greater response from the EU if it all comes through regional cooperation. The Hunter Association also commends the initiative. As I said, it is a good thing that licence hunting has now been introduced, but it will hardly be easier to achieve the launch that the protection hunts have failed to achieve because there are no incentives to go hunting. Above all, there must be much more shooting.
i-4321f287b652663a-96	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Runar Filer, for lifting up this important issue! I agree with much of the description of the problems expressed by the interpeller. We have problems with large and growing seal populations that cause damage to both gear and fish and spread parasites, and this is the reason for the extensive numbers we have had for protection hunting. That is also the reason why, not least in the light of the report by ICES on the poor state of cod in the Baltic Sea, we decided and went ahead with proposals on licence hunting, which will be introduced from 29 November this year. These are important steps towards an orderly administration in this area too. I can certainly see the problem that arises with regard to the measures we are taking to persuade hunters to be interested in shooting seals. Moreover, shooting seals is not simply the case, but it takes good hunters to achieve it at all. This is a problem that we will have to deal with in the future. However, with regard to the step from there to actively pursuing the issue of derogations in the EU at present, I believe that the issue is too early. My picture, of course from the fact that we are constantly monitoring the issue, is that there is a great deal of opposition to this in European circles. There is no question that we have protection hunting or how we deal with these issues nationally, but when it comes to trade issues, the resistance is compact, I would say. Sweden and Finland are quite alone in their position here. Nevertheless, we choose to report on the effects of not being able to deal with these issues. The Swedish Board of Agriculture makes compilations and reports to the EU continuously to show what we, like the interpeller, think is a bad way of dealing with the issue. However, there are no regular negotiations going on, because we have not been able to identify any new friends in this area so far. The issue is complicated by the reason that the Swedish and Finnish exceptions that we had between 2009 and 2015 disappeared, namely that Norway and Canada raised a dispute hearing within the framework of the WTO. This meant that we got rid of our exception, because we lost the dispute hearing. For Sweden, the WTO is a terriblely important body. We are a small trade-dependent country which depends entirely on the existence of a functioning dispute resolution organisation in the world. We are deeply concerned about developments in other ways for the WTO and that they are not fully respected by all countries and deprived of tools. The fact that Sweden would be obstrusive against the WTO is therefore completely foreign to me. At present, my assessment is that we are taking all the national measures we can. We are doing advocacy work to the extent that we constantly inform about the state of development and what we think about the issue, but I have not identified any way forward to try to raise the issue actively at European level.
i-4321f287b652663a-104	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. Today we see critically low levels of vendace in the Gulf of Bothnia. One major reason for the decline in stocks is seals that take up to eight times more than fishing. This is not just a grey seal, that is, the seal that is now being hunted by licence hunting. No, it is above all about our smallest seal – the cove – that you have big problems with up in the north of Västerbotten. What problem do you think it is that there are more seals than just grey seals that cause damage? What ecosystem do you want in the Gulf of Bothnia? Do you want a fishing, or do you want a seal? If it is fishing you want, the seal population must be managed differently from today. It's obvious. A reduction in the fishing quota can have major consequences for coastal fishing in Norrbotten. Much of the annual income of coastal fish comes from the sale of Kalixlöjrommen. If the quota is reduced by 80 percent, as researchers from SLU suggest, the product is very threatened. The decline of vendace may lead to the disappearance of the known Kalix roe from the market. It was the roe that was first certified by all. As I said, licence hunting on saithe in the Baltic Sea is good, not least for cod, for example. However, scientists argue that the need is even greater in the Skagerrak, as cod is even more threatened there. This is why scientists and fishermen on the west coast want to introduce licence hunting on chubby seals as well. The aim is to try to save the hard-pressed cod stock. The assessment is that chubby seals eat 15 000 tonnes of fish in the Skagerrak and Kattegat in one year. In 2002, it was about 5 000 tonnes. The increase in the consumption of seals in recent years is a serious threat to cod. This is why fishermen and researchers want a licence hunt to be introduced along the Swedish west coast, mainly along the Bohus coast. Norway has a completely different policy on this. It has been decided that there should not be more than 10 000 seals along the entire Norwegian coast. There are about as many chubby seals as there are on the Bohus coast. The border park to Koster is the national park Hvaler on the Norwegian side. There the shooting is increased, while the seals are protected on the Swedish side. Does the government have in mind to change the hunting decree regarding chubby seals to allow license hunting also on the west coast and the current bay in the Gulf of Bothnia in northern Västerbotten and on the Finnish side? Does the Government still not think that the Swedish Government has a great opportunity to get exemptions from the trade ban in this regard if you go on the offensive and push the issue properly in the EU? At least many scientists believe that. And why are you so good in Norway but not in Sweden at game conservation in terms of the impact of seals on catches and so on?
i-4321f287b652663a-112	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for the supplementary questions and the advanced reasoning on this interpellation. It is very good that there are eager politicians who want to go far and move quickly. In some sense, this is what drives the development of policy forward. At the same time, we need pragmatic politicians who are thinking about timing and balancing different interests and different quantities and are trying to make balanced decisions. With regard to the latter part of the speech by Runar Filper, I note that he highlighted many different parts in terms of both different fishes and different seals. I will not go through all of them and give answers to each of them, because time does not admit it. In general and overall terms, I can see that we are negotiating Swedish fisheries policy. But we are not doing it nationally, but we are doing it within the framework of Baltfish and within the framework of the European Union. We are currently entering a period when we are going to start negotiating fishing quotas for next year. This work will begin in October. For Sweden, it has been incredibly important that we can rely on accumulated scientific assessments to establish them. I do not believe that the policy is well-placed to establish fishing quotas. Then it is very important that the Member States have confidence in what is the Scientific Council, that is, ICES. Sweden has generally supported what has been ICES advice on quotas. In the round of negotiations, however, it is rarely exactly the recommendations of ICES that are passed on to the total. But with this said, that is to say, that we support and support them, it is clear that we are also listening to views coming in from the Swedish industry that, for various reasons, these advices are not shared. Runar Filer highlighted some examples of issues that exist in the Swedish debate that we are looking at, which we are listening to and which we are trying to value before we have a round of negotiations. Runar Filer also highlighted the decision that has been made about license hunting linked to grey seal. It is grey seals that are identified as the most urgent problem to deal with given the starting point of the decision, namely the ICES report on the state of cod in the Baltic Sea. Then it is the grey seal that is the big concern. But I am very keen that we should have good management of all game populations in Sweden, whether we are talking about seals or other kinds of animals. It is a delicate task that must be taken very seriously. It sometimes takes time to find a reasonable balance. I think it is a good thing that a step has been taken which means that we are now actually discussing licence hunting as an alternative to just protection hunting for the different seal species. However, the fact that we do not have a licence hunt does not mean that the other varieties are not hunted, as the honourable Member very well described in his interpellation. We still have protective hunting as an instrument for chubby seals and coves. Vickers are not considered to have favourable conservation status in the way the other species now have in Sweden. This makes this issue much more complex. My ambition is to maintain a good dialogue with the industry, with research and with other stakeholders in order to ensure a good game management over time.
i-4321f287b652663a-121	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. We also take great account of both nutrition and research. As I said, several scientists have argued that we need more incentives to hunt seals, because many thousands more need to be shot than today. Around the country, voices are now rising against the EU's ban on trade in seal products. It's a fact. The ban is strange and seems to be the result of a kind of political game. Since 2015, there has been a total ban on trade in seal products, as the Government has explained. EU rules exempt certain Inuit communities and indigenous peoples. But a Swedish sales owner may not sell anything from the seal. It's a strange ban. Shooting animals without taking advantage of the body is not justifiable and not good game management. Historically, skin, fur, meat and fat have been a commodity. Seal meat can also be a gastronomic experience if it is cooked properly. Local politicians and hunters are fighting to tear up the trade ban. That's it. The interest of hunters to go out and shoot a seal that cannot be taken care of cannot be too enthusiastic. If the licence hunt, which will enter into force on 29 November this year, does not come to an end and if the shooting does not increase significantly compared to previous protection hunts, it must be encouraged. Anyone understands that. However, lifting a trade ban may take many years to implement. We are aware of that. Could a substitute per seal shot be a way to attract more people to hunt? It used to be called bullet money. In fact, it is advocated by both researchers and sellers. Thousands more seals need to be shot around Sweden if it is to have any effect. But this protection hunt is not as simple as just going out and shooting a seal. It can only be done 200 metres from the place where you fish and where gear or catches have been destroyed. It makes it much more complicated than it sounds. Can the Government respond to how seal hunting can achieve the desired effect without these incentives?
i-4321f287b652663a-128	Mr President, I would like to In order to avoid any confusion about this, I would first like to emphasise that I believe that the issue of allowing the commercialisation of seal products is important. On the other hand, I see problems in dealing with the issue in such a way that it is currently being run in the European Union as a whole, and that is because we do it in some sense all the time. We have a constant reporting of how we view the issue, what effects we estimate we see and so on. So far we do not make the assessment that there are more countries that are prepared to meet Sweden on this point. The issue is also complicated by the fact that the WTO has views on this issue. At the same time, as the honourable Member says, we need to work with incentives. We will have to work with knowledge raising when it comes to hunters, in order for them to be able to shoot seals at all. We will have to work with other types of incentives when it comes to how to make use of meat, fur and fat for our own use in the first place, otherwise that knowledge will be lost. It is also perfectly possible to take advantage of this – sometimes in the debate it may sound like one cannot eat the meat at all, and that is not the case. You have to take care of it for your own use. Even today there is also the possibility of receiving compensation for seal meat; between SEK 600 and SEK 2 630 can be obtained if you submit your seals. However, I think this is rather unknown. I therefore believe that we have a great responsibility to work together to both describe the problems that exist in this area and to be constructive in trying to find solutions that provide practical ways forward. We also need to work to spread knowledge about what is after all possible here and now.
