i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-11	Madam President, I would like Mattias Karlsson has asked me how I intend to ensure that increased taxes on petrol and diesel do not make it more expensive to live in the countryside and if I still think that it is really expensive to refuel. Sofia Westergren has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure that people who are completely dependent on a fossil-powered car will not have a severe economic downturn, which, according to Westergren, is the risk of high fuel taxes. I would like to stress the importance of the whole of Sweden living and growing, while also pressing for an effective environmental policy. The January agreement provides for a strong green tax shift to be implemented, with increased environmental taxes being exchanged for reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. Exactly how this tax exchange is to be carried out and which environmental taxes are to be increased will the government return to. When I took office as Minister of Finance, we had a system where ordinary people were allowed to pay for new car purchases via the tax. The super environmental car premium then went to the one who could afford a brand new car. The super environmental car premium has been replaced by a bonus – malus system. Bonus – malus should be a more cost-neutral system where those who can afford to buy a new car with high CO2 emissions pay the bonus to those who buy a car with low CO2 emissions. It should be possible to live and operate throughout the country, even where public transport alternatives are missing or limited e. For example, the government has set up a committee to review the travel allowance. The revision of the travel allowance is carried out, inter alia, in order to make it easier for those living in rural areas, and is also intended to contribute to the 2030 climate target for the transport sector.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-15	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his answers. The question I wanted to answer was how the Minister of Finance intends to ensure that increased taxes on petrol and diesel do not make it more expensive to live and live in rural areas. In the January agreement, the government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, has agreed on a green tax exchange of at least 15 billion. It's not a small sum. While the income tax base is broad and stable, the environmental tax base is narrow and eroded, which means that a small reduction in income tax must be financed by a large increase in environmental taxes. Fuel taxes make up the bulk of environmental taxes, so this is where we can expect substantial increases in order for the government to bring in these 15 billion. But what is often forgotten is that this type of energy already pays for more than it costs in terms of emissions. The passenger car is the only mode of transport that accounts for far more than its own environmental costs. In addition, the development is progressing rapidly, fuel consumption is reduced and more electric cars are rolling on the roads. Prior to the 2014 elections, Magdalena Andersson promised not to increase the petrol tax. Since then, the government has done just that, every year. Since 2017, in addition to the Consumer Price Index, the tax has been calculated by 2 extra percentage points. In answer to my question, how does the Minister of Finance intend to ensure that increased taxes on petrol and diesel do not make it more expensive to live in the countryside and live in the countryside, Magdalena Andersson replied that the government has set up a committee to review the travel allowance. It feels like the Minister for Finance in his reply wants to paint a picture of the fact that travel deductions are mainly made by people in rural areas, but that is not true. Instead, it is a deduction for high-income male workers in the three metropolitan regions who travel by car. Hardly any tax, deduction or grant is subject to as much cheating as the travel allowance – a cheat that each year costs SEK 2 billion in non-tax revenue, according to the Rural Committee's final report. In other words, 40% of the government's costs of the travel allowance are due to cheating. Is it really a committee that reviews the travel allowance that answers the question of how not to make living and living in rural areas more expensive?
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-23	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The government has announced that fuel taxes will continue to rise in the coming years. The overindexation of the petrol tax is to be reintroduced. Too drastic increases in fuel taxes hit those who are totally dependent on the car in everyday life and who live with small economic margins. Excessively rapid increases in fuel taxes are hitting people in rural areas in particular. Sweden is a country where citizens often have long distances between home and work. At the same time, we already have one of the world's highest taxes on petrol. Regardless of alternatives to the car, there are many in our country who are completely dependent on the fossil-powered cars we have today because many do not have access to public transport or the possibility of buying an electric car. Madam President, I would like I think the Minister owes the answer to what is meant by green tax exchange and its implications for rural areas. As things stand, the countryside will pay. Madam President, I would like I would appreciate it if the Minister of Finance could reply somewhat reassuringly that it would not be more expensive to live in rural areas.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-28	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Mattias Karlsson and Sofia Westergren for two very important interpellations about being able to live, live and run companies throughout Sweden. I would like to point out that the car has a special role to play in the area of free movement. It gives us the opportunity to travel whenever we want, wherever we want and with whom we want. The car also competes with all other traffic systems and makes them better. Car and road transport are a prerequisite for a functioning society. And, Madam President, everyone wins from the car. However, it is self-evident that we should combat emissions. I was born and raised in Norrbotten, I have a lot of family in Norrbotten and I know how important it is by car. I live in Gävleborg, and I can say that we have a well-developed local traffic there. But if you live in the villages of Hälsingland or Gästrikland you are dependent on the car. If you live in Nacka or in Stockholm you have a comfortable metro and other convenient public transport. You may also have a pharmacy that is open 24 hours a day. It is something fundamentally different from living in a village in the municipality of Ljusdal. I happen to know a single mother of three who lives in Ljusdal municipality. She's totally addicted to the car. She depends on the car to drive her children to practice, to go shopping and to get to the little company she runs. We decision-makers must respect the fact that different people have different living situations. In an elongated country like Sweden, the car is very important. I note that the Minister of Finance said in his reply that she would like to review the travel allowance. That is very much the case, although his colleague Mattias Karlsson pointed out the problems that exist with the travel allowance. But, Madam President, anyone who is disabled and dependent on a car or a pensioner – such as my in-laws in Boden who have worked their whole life in Boden – has no travel allowance. My in-laws depend on being able to refuel their Seat to visit their friends in Boden. The alternative, of course, is to tell father - in - law that if they cannot afford to refuel the car, they can stay home. I also note that a Social Democratic municipal councillor, Niklas Nordström, in Luleå rasa r over the government's policy in this area. It doesn't happen every day. Today's industry had a running bill and wrote on a double spread about petrol tax rebellion in Norrbotten. Yeah, it's a clean order. If you shock increase petrol taxes and fuel taxes, it is a pure order that people react. Of course, they are right to do so. Then there is another perspective, and that is the competitiveness of business. It is, of course, reasonable that even those who run companies outside the big cities should be able to send their sellers by car and to transport goods and goods. It goes without saying that this is the case. I know that the Green Party has had ideas about driving goods in the subway in Stockholm. But even the Environmental Party's representative in Norrbotten spoke in the article in Today's industry that you can't shock increase fuel taxes so that people can't afford to live and work. It will not be solved with a travel deduction inquiry, but rather a policy that really allows people to live and live in the whole of Sweden.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-38	Madam President, I would like I shall continue to debate with the Minister of Finance in subsequent interpellations on the travel allowance. But I felt I wanted to do a little reflection on the discussion which is about the taxation of fuels. It is just as my colleagues have said here, namely that Sweden is an elongated country with very large distances and that the car is actually needed throughout the country. Often when we discuss this, the answer comes that we have travel deductions. But just as Lars Beckman mentioned here before, the travel allowance does not help those people who do not work but still need the car, such as students. I myself have a daughter who has to go quite far with her car to get to school, because there is no bus. We also have all pensioners who are completely dependent on the car in the countryside in order to get to various activities. Lars Beckman talked about his in-laws. Does the Minister of Finance want pensioners to stay at home because they can't get anywhere, or should we send travel services instead? How will it be better for the environment and for social costs? Then there are all those who work and who actually need the car for other things than their work trips. If you live in the country, you need the car for everything. You need it to do big shopping, to drive the children to preschool and to practice and so on. The car is needed for everything. You can't make it without a car in the country. Then the travel allowance does not help at all. Another aspect is the often celebrated green industries. Everyone's talking about the green industries. But one very important thing is forgotten, and that is that it is in fact the rural people who are largely driving these green industries. It is we in the country who grow the forest and the food, and it is we who supply the city with biofuels. It is we who offer tourism and wilderness activities that attract foreign visitors to the country, who contribute their money to Swedish welfare. Without the transport of cars and lorries in rural areas, none of the green industries would work at all. It is not possible to have the dense public transport of big cities as the norm without seeing the conditions of rural and sparsely populated areas. And it is not possible to compare those who work on normal working hours with those who work night, as there is no public transport. This actually applies whether you live in the country or in the middle of central Stockholm. For example, ask the bus driver who picks up his bus in the garage early in the morning to drive the first bus ride of the day how it would work to get to work without his own car. It's hard to ride the bus that's in the garage. Or ask the night nurse, the police, the emergency services who are on call at home, the one who runs the snow plow or the one who runs the oven at the steel mill when the rest of us sleep well. The examples are many in professional groups who work when the rest of us sleep and when there is no public transport. I think this is very important to have as a background, both when we are discussing fuel taxes and when we will later discuss the travel deductions.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-45	Madam President, I would like When listening to the interpellants, it is easy to get the impression that the government is about to ban driving at all. It may be superfluous to say that this is not the case. I share the opinion of the interpellants that the car is absolutely central. Many people live in places in Sweden where there are no alternatives to driving. Many people, not least in LO professions, have working hours that require that they can get by car to work because there are no other options. If you work on awkward working hours, there is no public transport. I am also well aware that there are older people living in sparsely populated areas who need the car to go shopping, for example. Others may need to drive children to practice. That is why it is so important that, on the day we start the green tax shift, we do so in such a way that all people have the opportunity to be in that transition. In addition to being well aware that in parts of Sweden the car needs to be able to get to different activities, it is also extremely important that there is acceptance for the green transition, because that is something that we need to do. We must ensure that we make this transition because otherwise we will not assume our responsibilities towards our children and grandchildren. We are already seeing the economic consequences of climate change. That is why we need to make a green transition that is acceptable and that everyone can participate in. A green transition can never be about us subsidising high-income people's purchases of Teslor. We must have a green transition that the whole country can be involved in. The starting point for government policy is therefore that the whole country should not only be able to live but also grow. This is why the government is also investing in the spring change budget in the maintenance of individual roads, in rail freight and in the expansion of learning centres. There are also major efforts in the January agreement to strengthen rural areas, both services and opportunities for entrepreneurship in rural areas. Important efforts were also made during the last parliamentary term to expand service offices, to set up learning centres, to support commercial services and to support road maintenance, to name a few. This is, of course, something that we want to continue with. The travel allowance has just all the problems that Mattias Karlsson pointed out. That is precisely why we need to review the travel allowances – to see if they can better support those who really need support while reducing opportunities for cheating. As has been pointed out, there is a major problem of cheating in connection with the travel deductions, and one of the things we are going to look at is whether a distance-based travel deduction would reduce opportunities for cheating. On the other hand, it has other disadvantages. I would like to raise a few points that have been made in the debate. Sofia Westergren says that indexation should be reinstated. Here we do exactly what the Moderates proposed in their budget reservation, which was achieved together with the Christian Democrats and with the support of the Swedish Democrats. We propose a one-year stop for indexing and that it then continues, which was exactly what the Moderates proposed in the Riksdag. Sofia Westergren says we have one of the world's highest petrol taxes. Let me list some countries that have higher levels: Holland, Italy, Finland, Greece, France, Germany and the United Kingdom. Mattias Karlsson says that I have promised not to increase the tax on petrol. I'd like a quote on that.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-56	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Finance is talking about the green transition, which requires the support of the population. The major problem with the policy that the government is now pursuing with its support parties is that it is perceived as an unfair climate policy that lacks popular support and increases the gaps between urban and rural areas. I think that's doomed to failure. This will only create hardships in society and setbacks for the necessary changes that need to be implemented in society. We have seen it around the world, not least with the yellow vests in France. A short-term policy that the government is now pursuing neither helps the climate nor the individual citizen, whether he or she lives in Pajala, Överkalix or Kiruna. Sweden risks becoming more backward when we should instead become a pioneer country for fair climate change. If we are to manage to do this, the 15 billion tax shift needs to lead to both reduced emissions and equality. But for many, as has been said earlier in the debate, there is no alternative to the car. For most people living outside our urban areas, the car is a must to get to work, drive children to school and leisure activities or buy food. For them, the cost of petrol is already a financial burden. The ever - increasing tax on petrol hardly makes it easier to make ends meet. To tax them to such limited environmental benefits by small margins and without alternatives is simply not justifiable. Swedish car users outside Stockholm cause low social costs, reduce their emissions each year, pay huge taxes that are raised automatically, lack relevant public transport and get some back in the form of road maintenance and more. They have more reasons than their French counterparts to protest. On the streets of Stockholm or in the corridors of the Ministry of Finance, this may not be a very big issue, but for those who live outside the big cities, the price is far too high.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-60	Madam President, I would like I work for reduced fuel taxes. Magdalena Andersson has worked for increased fuel taxes. It was the Moderates, together with the Christian Democrats, who pushed through overindexing of fuels, and we will continue to work to keep it there. Now it is Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson who is in the government, and I hope she agrees with the Moderates and Christian Democrats and removes the overindexation of fuels. An increase in fuel taxes is hitting those who have the worst and live in rural areas hard. Sweden is a country with both a high tax burden and low per capita growth. Sweden is an elongated country with long distances, and now we have a red-green government that knocks away the legs of aviation. Sweden is also an unusual country in that diesel is more expensive than petrol. With this unfair policy, it is clear that Sweden is going in the wrong direction. The country has low growth, and companies and capital look for other countries to operate in. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister for Finance whether the fact that we have such high taxes can cause Sweden to lose business start-ups. I would also like to ask the Minister for Finance what impact it has on the competitiveness of the Swedish haulage industry that diesel is so much more expensive here than in other countries. Madam President, I would like I'm worried that taxes are rising all the time. I think it hurts Sweden. I have been involved in setting up the Swedish Parliament's car network – a network that is needed in today's debate, where there are politicians who seem to be more upset that the car is owned privately than over the impact of emissions. Of course, we should do everything we can for a sustainable world, but the most important thing must surely be the climate footprint and not if the cars are owned privately. We must see the possibility: if the car does not release anything dangerous, should we not make the common cause of the need for the car in our country? Raising taxes and then setting up a committee will hardly help the countryside. We need to know if the countryside can push out, Minister of Finance. We need to know whether people will avoid the difficulties of living and working in rural areas. At the moment, I think it is an unfair policy, which puts aside the opportunity to live and work there. Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Minister for Finance if she thinks it is right that the countryside should pay more for its transport, while the city will have further strengthened public transport.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-66	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the answers, although I have to admit that I did not hear any answers. I did not hear an answer to the question of how the person who is disabled and dependent on a car will survive. I did not hear an answer to the question how the pensioner in Norrbotten can afford to refuel his car – or the pensioner in Gävleborg, for that matter, or in Småland. It's about those who don't get a travel allowance for trips to work, or those who are on sick leave and live on very tight margins but depend on the car. I do not think it is good enough, Madam President, to say one thing – that the whole of Sweden should be able to live and that people should be able to live and work everywhere – and then to conduct a policy that is the opposite. As my colleague Sofia Westergren said, the overindexation of petrol tax and fuel taxes that the M-KD budget removed is being reintroduced. I understand Niklas Nordström. I understand the councillor of Pajala who is raging in today's industry. I even understand the environmental party stone, if it was from Arjeplog, who said: Wait a minute – we cannot shock increase the tax on petrol for those of us who live this far north! However, this understanding seems to be completely lacking by the government. I regret that, because, as Mattias Karlsson said in his speech, I am afraid it will have very difficult consequences when you split Sweden. There is a book that I wish the Minister of Finance would read. It is constantly on the road, and on p. 78 you can see how the CO2 emissions of passenger cars are falling in Sweden. So they've gone down. You can see the Swedish Transport Administration's forecast of nitrogen oxides, which shows that they are going down. The development is therefore moving in the right direction, Madam President, but one must be able to live and live in the whole of Sweden.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-70	Madam President, I would like There will be new questions all the time. The Minister of Finance said it was a misunderstanding and that it is clear that the government does not want to ban driving. But, Magdalena Andersson, your partner party in the government, the Green Party, says that they want to ban all sales of fossil fuels. It might be a good idea to ask whether the Minister for Finance shares the view that we should completely ban the sale of all fossil fuels and then ask the Minister for Finance to explain how ambulances, police cars, truck transports, forest machinery, snowmobiles, motorcycles and all cars can be driven after this ban. The Minister of Finance listed a number of measures that she said were for rural areas, such as service centres and some other small things. But that was by no means an answer to the question we asked. How will people get to these service centers if they cannot afford to drive and if there is no public transport? I'd be happy to hear that from the Minister of Finance. Well, Minister of Finance, we have the world's highest carbon tax by far. The second country has about half of the tax level that we have in Sweden. The Minister of Finance said we'd get quotes of the statement before the 2014 elections, so I pulled it out. It was in the economic debate on TV on 16 August 2014 that the Minister of Finance said that it was very expensive to refuel petrol as it was and that there was no need to increase the petrol tax. This is a verbatim quote from the debate.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-75	Madam President, I would like We have not yet decided what a green tax shift should look like, so we do not yet know how this will affect various forms of emissions. However, it is important to bear in mind that we will not only increase the tax but that we will also reduce the tax. We will reduce the tax exactly as much as we increase the tax. This means that those affected by the tax increase will also be able to feel a tax reduction. Precisely how this will be designed, we will work out in the coming time. Then we will be able to have a debate in which we know exactly how taxes will be increased and lowered. Then there will be a more informed debate by all parties. Development is moving in the right direction, and emissions from cars are decreasing. That is a very important point. New cars emit much less than new cars did five or ten years ago. It is also the case that five or ten - year - old cars emit much less than cars that were then five or ten years old did ten years ago. This means that driving a petrol-powered car one or two kilometres to work is not much more expensive today than it was ten years ago – especially if it is taken into account that there has also been a real wage development in these years – despite the fact that there have been increases in petrol taxation in these years. Even the Minister of Finance in a moderate government has high petrol taxes – it might be good to remember. The Moderates say that the environmental benefits of petrol tax increases are limited, but here it is still the case that research has concluded that this is by far the most effective instrument one can have. The Moderates usually say that they want a more effective environmental policy. Then, to be honest, according to scientists, this is one of the most effective things to do. We will see what the government will do, but according to scientists this is extremely effective. In their exercise, the Moderates stopped the so-called over-indexation for a year; then the indexation will be released again. What the Moderates have proposed in this House is thus a stop to indexing for this year, 2019, but that it then continues in 2020 and 2021. The Moderates may have changed since January, but this is what is proposed in what the Moderates have presented and voted for in the Riksdag. Isabella Lövin has said that she wants to ban the sale of fossil fuels. This is a view of the Green Party; it is not the position of the government as a whole. It is quite correct that I have said that it is expensive to refuel and that we Social Democrats did not go to elections to increase the petrol tax in 2014– that is how it was. But I have never said that I will never increase the tax on petrol.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-82	Madam President, I would like If, in an election campaign, a few weeks before election day 2014, you say that you do not see any need to increase the petrol tax, it must nevertheless be seen as an election promise. But it is interesting if such an election promise should not be seen as an election promise in the future – I think it will change the dynamics of the election movements in the future and among the voters. It seems to me, Madam President, that the government is completely unacceptable in the face of the problems that a penal tax on Sweden's countryside with heavily increased fuel taxes is likely to create. In order to push for an effective climate policy, consideration must be given to the whole of Sweden. This requires sensitivity – otherwise we risk confidence in the whole climate policy. Several of the taxes that the Red-Green Government now wants to bring forward are condemned by the government's own experts, either because the taxes lack environmental benefits or because the transformation that the government claims to want to create with the taxes is already under way. This will only lead to people losing confidence in policy's ability to drive emission reductions and people, mainly in rural areas, will be taxed in practice because they cannot take part in public transport in big cities. I am convinced that the lack of performance requirements in the government's climate policy will lead to calls for increasingly drastic measures, while everyone living in rural areas feels that the fight against climate change is in practice a direct blow to them. Anyone who is serious about the urgency of meeting the climate threat is also obliged to conduct a policy that brings with it all of Sweden.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-87	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you once again for the answers given by the Minister for Finance. Increased fuel taxes hit those who have the worst and live in rural areas hard. It is important that we get rid of the over-indexation of fuels. It is a pity that we cannot find out more about the green tax shift. It is interesting that there should be as much reduction as increase– I wonder how this will beat and what development will take place. Will rural areas be subject to penalties and pay for the city's public transport? I also regret that the Minister of Finance does not see that the whole of Sweden should live and does not see people's need to move and of all transport. I regret that the Minister of Finance does not see people's need to go to kindergarten, to shop and to go to their jobs. It is impossible to get to this with such incredibly high taxes on fuels as Sweden today has. It is also about the harmful impact of high taxes on entrepreneurship and on the competitiveness of Swedish haulage industry. Today we see foreign hauliers entering Sweden who need to steal diesel to transport themselves out of the country. There's something here that's not right. It is gratifying that emissions have been reduced. Let us continue to focus on reducing emissions and on the fact that the car is important for the whole of Sweden to live.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-93	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the Moderates' rural policy consists of one thing: car. Otherwise, it seems to be extremely thin. There are many more needs in rural areas. I am well aware that many people need the car to live, but you need much more. You need roads you can go on and municipalities that have enough resources to have good schools and care for the elderly. You need a service center and you need a learning center. There must be good opportunities to run businesses via broadband. And for our young people to want to live in sparsely populated areas, there must be broadband. The government is particularly committed to this. It is therefore much more important than a car in the countryside. In addition to a good rural policy, we need an environmental policy that takes responsibility. It is our generation's responsibility to our children and grandchildren. We know what is happening right now with climate change. We know what we need to do, but we must have the courage to do so. What was it like in the budget motion that the Moderates and Christian Democrats had to present? It was a veritable slaughter in the environmental budget. You went down and pulled down. That is what the Moderates' environmental policy looks like. So it is the Moderates' responsibility for future generations. We cannot continue to rule this country. We need an environmental policy that takes this seriously. Our biggest investment in our amending budget was precisely on the environment and climate, because that is where we need to make extensive efforts. It is the great responsibility of our generation to our children and young people. I would like to take that responsibility on behalf of the government.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-97	Madam President, I would like Hampus Hagman has asked me how long the government considers it appropriate to wait to produce the legislation requested by Parliament while crime continues week after week. As I have previously replied to Hampus Hagman, I would first of all like to say that the government is determined to fight back against theft gangs. People and businesses are being hit hard, and we cannot tolerate that. Sweden needs to become a less attractive target for international crime networks so that the amount of organised crime committed in the country is reduced. As early as early 2018, the government presented an offensive package of measures in this area. The measures aim, among other things, at increased cooperation between authorities, possible criminal law measures with a stronger view of housing offences and systematic theft, as well as increased international cooperation. In the 2018 budget bill, the government also launched a strong investment in the Swedish Police Authority, and the Swedish Customs Agency received the largest resource addition in ten years. As part of the package of measures, the Swedish Police Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Coast Guard have been commissioned by the Government to strengthen the fight against international crime networks that commit criminal offences in Sweden. The assignment includes analysing whether the authorities through closer collaboration between themselves may make it difficult for foreign theft leagues to commit crimes in Sweden. I know from experience from the excise duty mission in 2017, where the joint efforts of several authorities led to the destruction of the so-called liquor buses, that when the authorities cooperate, it is possible to go very far to prevent and stop organised crime. They work purposefully and take advantage of each other's strengths. The whole toolbox is activated. During the implementation of the mission, the Police Authority, Customs and the Coast Guard have identified measures that may facilitate the work of the authorities and will also look into the possible need for changes to the legislation. New or amended legislation is one of the tools that can be used. At the same time, methodological development and focused cooperation are at least as important. This clearly showed the results of the excise duty mission.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-102	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. The Swedish Customs Agency needs to be given a greater role in law enforcement work. Customs' resources need to be strengthened, staffing needs to be increased and customs needs to be given more powers. A large part of the thefts and burglaries that occur in Sweden are committed by international crime networks, which come here to commit crimes and then leave the country as quickly as possible. The police estimate that these gangs account for more than half of all housing offences but also a large part of the so-called old-age crimes, that is, theft from our elderly. After the theft, the goods are quickly brought out of the country, and as the law stands today, the Customs staff are forced to watch the suspected stolen goods leave the country. Once the goods are out of Sweden, the chance to clear up the crime is almost non-existent. Victims, those who have been robbed of their home, and all the elderly who have been victims of theft, will remain in the knowledge that the crimes against them will probably never be solved. That is why the Customs Agency needs a clearer law enforcement mission with more powers. Parliament has taken a position on this. With the approval of the Budget Reserve from the Christian Democrats and the Moderates in December, the Government announced that new legislation will be developed that gives the Customs staff the power to stop and search vehicles precisely to increase the possibilities of stopping stolen goods before it is taken out of the country. Earlier this spring, I put a written question to the Minister for Finance asking when the government intends to bring forward such legislation. Then I got the answer that the government is waiting for the final report of an assignment that has been given to the Swedish Customs, among other things. The Government will then analyse the issue in order to consider possible legislative measures. There are several problems with this, I think. I will come back to them in the next speech. The first, however, and what actually causes this interpellation debate, is the formulation of the mission to which the government refers. The Government instructs the Finnish Customs to contribute, within the framework of its powers, to increasing the detection risk of the exit of stolen goods. The announcement from the Riksdag means that the Government will present legislation that gives the Customs Agency increased and new powers in addition to the m that exist today. The conclusions that the Minister for Finance is awaiting will therefore not correspond to what the Parliament has asked for. Yet I was told that the government is waiting for them. While the government is waiting, crime, burglaries, and thefts from older people are taking place throughout the country. That is what prompts my question, Madam President, to which I have still not been given an answer, either in response to the written question or in reply to this interpellation: when will legislation that gives the Finnish Customs the new powers requested by Parliament?
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-111	Madam President, I would like The interpellant addresses a serious problem. I am glad that many people are committed to this issue. It is extremely important that we can use the collective resources of society to combat international theft leagues. That is also why the government has taken the initiative for this mission. The background is the extremely positive experience we have of the collaboration that took place between authorities when they knocked out the liquor buses. Earlier, around twenty liquor buses came rolling into Sweden every week. But thanks to cooperation between the authorities, without changes in legislation and without increased resources, they managed to knock out the liquor buses. We want the Swedish Police, Customs and Coast Guard to look at how they can better work together to access the international theft leagues. But here it is important to point out, which may not have been clear enough, that they are not sitting in their chambers and thinking about what to do, but are out working together here and now. They have carried out collaborative efforts to see how they can work in a smarter way and use all the tools available in the administrative and bureaucratic toolbox to knock away the legs of these theft leagues. So they work and learn all the time here and now. They will also report back to the government. But it is clear that, as they are now working, they are doing so on the basis of the powers they have and the legislation that exists today. When they report back to the government, it is of course free for them to come up with proposals for legislative changes. Once we have them, there are opportunities for the government to return to Parliament.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-115	Madam President, I would like I note that there seems to be quite a lot of unity between us. I agree with the Minister of Finance on the problem picture. The fact that international gangs commit crimes in Sweden and bring the stolen goods out of the country is a major problem. I am pleased that we agree that this is a major problem. We also agree on several of the solutions. We agree that the resources of the Customs Agency need to be increased. We fully agree that the cooperation between the Swedish Customs Agency, which the Minister for Finance has just raised, is important and can certainly be developed. We agree that the Finnish Customs will use all tools in the toolbox together with other authorities. I believe, however, that in addition to this there is more that can and needs to be done. The toolbox needs to be expanded, not least because the victims, the victims of burglary and the elderly who have been robbed really deserve the redress of a solved crime. Then a change of legislation to allow customs officials to stop and search vehicles on their way out of the country is an important extension of the toolbox. Let me go back to the Minister for Finance's reply of 20 February this year. There she writes that the mission, which I mentioned here and the aim of which is to strengthen the fight against international crime networks, can form the basis for any legislation. After completion of the mission, the Government will analyse whether further legislation is required. The word, "can" does not give any guarantee. There is therefore no guarantee that this task will form the basis of new legislation, but it can do so. The task that I would like to see, therefore, does not correspond to the mandate given to the authorities by the Minister for Finance and the Government in the past. The final report of the assignment is also a year away. Only then will the government's analysis work begin. My view is that it is far too late. At worst, then, a new investigation needs to be set up to work out the legislation, and then we will probably have to wait some or a few more years, while crime continues. There are therefore two problems here: firstly, that it takes far too long, and secondly, that the task that exists with the authorities does not necessarily correspond to what Parliament has asked for. I'm a little perplexed about the scepticism the government has for the announcement of the Riksdag. Does the government have anything against the legislation that is being requested that gives customs the power to stop suspected stolen goods from leaving the country? Has Parliament missed anything, or what makes the government so sceptical and acting so slowly on the matter?
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-123	Madam President, I would like It is important that we analyse the issue carefully so that we know what the pros and cons of a possible legislative change are. If it were obvious that this was the right way to go, we would probably have gone this way a long time ago, because international theft leagues are not a new phenomenon. It is important that we look at what is the most effective way to combat these theft leagues. Are there better opportunities for cooperation that can strengthen the work, or are legislative changes needed to become more effective in combating these theft leagues? That's why the government wants to wait for the collaboration and the task the authorities have now, which, important to point out, does not mean that they sit in their chambers and think without being out in business and trying out various new methods to stop these leagues – and they can find out that it's a big problem to stop the export of goods. However, Customs has the opportunity to call the police if you suspect stolen goods, and then the police can come and do the necessary investigations of the goods and also seize it, I suppose. In any case, the police can do what they do in such cases. So that possibility already exists today. When the Ministry of Finance asked the Swedish Customs if it is often a problem that the police do not come when customs encounters stolen goods on exit, the Swedish Customs replied that it has been a problem on individual occasions but that it is not a general problem. Customs does not work very much with random checks either on the entry or exit of goods, but they work intelligence-based. In the past, a lot of resources were spent on spot checks on entry and exit, but now they are working more risk-based to better use our tax money and take more goods for the time spent.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-129	Madam President, I would like I do not think that the Customs, Coast Guard and other authorities are sitting on their chambers and thinking without being out in reality. I understand the authorities are. Magdalena Andersson is right that Tullverket can call the police if you discover stolen goods. The problem is that the Customs Service does not have the authority to hold people while waiting for the police. It is therefore dependent on the police being able to come under the Customs Inspectorate. It is therefore clear to me that new ways of working are needed. I do not get an answer to the question when new legislation comes that gives the Customs Agency greater powers. The Customs Agency needs increased powers, and the Riksdag has announced to the Government that such legislation will be developed. I have asked the question in writing and now intervened, and the government answers that it is determined to fight back against theft leagues and describes investments in police and customs and how changes in working methods and collaboration will lead to more crimes being cleared up. We agree on these things, Madam President, but the question itself, when new legislation comes, does not answer the government – legislation that is in line with what Parliament has asked for. Madam President, I would like In the absence of a reply from the Minister for Finance to the time when new legislation comes, it seems to me that the answer to this question is that the legislation is too late.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-134	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important to work even more intensively than today to stop these international theft leagues. I have great hopes that the further increased cooperation we see between the authorities and the methodological development that is taking place in this work will make the authorities more effective than they have been in the past. If legislative changes are needed, such proposals can be made, and the government will of course consider this carefully. Of course, we will also try to ensure that we have legislation that is as effective as possible so that we really use the resources we spend on this as effectively as possible. Hampus Hagman says you don't have the right to detain people. No, but you can do it as long as the Customs Inspectorate is in progress. The question is whether it is a major problem that the police do not have time to come before the customs inspection is completed. According to Customs' information to us, it may be a problem in individual cases, but it is generally not a big problem that the police do not have time before the Customs Inspection is completed. So it seems to be a collaboration that works between customs and the police. I believe that there are further opportunities for development in this area. I look forward to the development work and will look carefully at proposals for legislative changes and on the needs of the authorities in order to be able to work as effectively as possible.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-138	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me whether I see a need to change so that the travel allowance is more consistent with the costs of reality and how I see the impact of the travel allowance on the matching of the labour market. Jan Ericson has also asked the Minister for Labour how she views the impact of the travel allowance on labour market matching. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. As mentioned by Jan Ericson, the travel allowance is subject to investigation. A committee will review the current system of travel deductions and analyse how a distance-based travel allowance can be designed. An important starting point is that it should be possible to live and operate throughout the country, even where public transport alternatives are missing or limited. Another starting point for the Committee's work is to draw up rules that will contribute to regional enlargement and thus facilitate labour market mobility. The design will also contribute to the 2030 transport climate target. There are therefore several aspects of the travel allowance to be highlighted. Point 23 of the January Agreement proposes measures to make it possible to live and live in rural areas, including the introduction of a distance-based travel allowance. The Travel Deduction Committee shall submit its report by 1 July 2019. If it follows the usual preparation in the Government Office.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-142	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply, although I am a little disappointed that she is taking both answers. It would have been interesting to also highlight this from the labour market point of view and get Ylva Johansson's answer to the question. But I'll have to get back to her in another way. As I said in a previous debate, Sweden is an elongated country with great distances, and the car is actually needed throughout the country. This applies not only to those who are entitled to travel allowances, but also to people who do not work, such as students, sick leavers, jobseekers and pensioners – etc. who need the car in everyday life. Those who work also need the car for other things than work trips. I mentioned earlier how important it is that the green industries work and that it is, to a large extent, people in rural areas who run those activities. It would not work without people being able to take the car to their jobs. Having said that, the travel allowance is, as I said, also important for the labour market. Thanks to the car, job seekers can take a job elsewhere. And an employer can find labor over a larger area. The car simply enlarges the labour market regions and facilitates matching in the labour market. For the employee, the travel allowance is often financially crucial for the possibility of taking a job a little further away without having to move. The latter may be completely impossible with regard to the work or studies of other family members. It is not possible to have the dense public transport of big cities as the norm without seeing the conditions of rural and sparsely populated areas. It is also not possible to compare jobs on normal working hours with those who work night and do not always have public transport available. This applies regardless of whether you live in the country or in the middle of central Stockholm. For example, ask the bus driver who picks up his bus in the garage early in the morning to drive the first turn of the day how it would work to get to work without his own car. Also ask the night nurse, the police, emergency services on call at home, the one who runs the snow plow or the oven in the steel mill when the rest of us sleep well. The examples are many in occupational groups who work while the rest of us sleep and therefore lack access to public transport. The travel allowance is important to in any case partially compensate those who have high costs of travel to work. With their tax money, they are involved in paying for the whole of public transport without being able to use it for their own work trips. In addition, they will not receive a deduction for the first SEK 11,000 travel costs. The travel allowance needs to be strengthened. The Minister of Finance's answer raises a number of questions. She's talking about a new distance-based travel allowance. I wonder what she means by that. The travel allowance is already clearly distance-based. It is linked to the number of kilometres driven and provides a deduction of 1.85 per kilometre driven. What can be changed so that it becomes more distance-based than today? I would like to hear the Minister for Finance develop that a little, without her pre-empting the investigation of course. The Minister of Finance also talks about the travel allowance contributing to regional enlargement and promoting labour market mobility. At the same time, it shall contribute to the climate objective of the transport sector. How can you both benefit work travel and contribute to the climate goal? Can the Minister of Finance explain this in an educational way? Should we drive more or less a car? A travel allowance cannot work for both parts at the same time. The Minister of Finance also says in his reply that an important starting point is that it should be possible to live and operate throughout the country, even where public transport alternatives are missing or limited. Can the Minister of Finance therefore promise that there will be no further economic deterioration for rural residents when the new travel allowance is introduced?
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-152	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Jan Ericson for an important interpellation. When I travel in my constituency, Gävleborg – it could certainly be any constituency – I visit companies and ask how it goes. Often things go pretty well right now. Then I ask if there is any question that the entrepreneur thinks is important to run in Parliament. It is not unusual, then, for a shortage of labour to come up. It is not uncommon for entrepreneurs to say: We do not find employees X and Y that we need in that service. It is clear that companies located in Järbo or Lingbo or any other small town often mention that it is difficult for employees to get there. A company in Järbo told us that they had an employee who commuted from Söderhamn. If the employee were to commute from Söderhamn by public transport, this meant first change in Gävle to Sandviken and then change to Järbo. It would be very long working hours for that employee. How do you solve it? Of course, the employee drives a car. It's still a pretty long trip. But it is at least easier than travelling by public transport. Then the travel allowance is very important. This is what enables the employee to afford that job and to commute. Another company that I visited in Hudiksvall a month ago had an employee who commuted from internal Hälsingland. The standard of the roads in Hälsingland was also mentioned. If the Minister of Finance were to ride in the back seat of his Government car after, for example, Nianforsvägen, I would recommend a helmet. That is the way – on the subject of a previous debate on roads – namely very uneven, as I show to the audience in this House. But the road is necessary for many people commuting in Hälsingland inland to be able to work. And then, of course, the travel allowance is important. Just as Jan Ericson writes in his interpellation, the travel allowance has not been increased for many years. At the same time, this government has increased vehicle tax since 2014. Fuel taxes have been increased. A bonus – malus system has been introduced which means that those who live in Hälsingland inland and want to go safely to their work in Hudiksvall and for that reason want to drive a large car now receive a large penalty tax. When you travel like a tank on Nianforsvägen, which is very uneven, you probably want a larger maybe even four-wheel drive car in order to get to and from work. It must be better for people to get to and do a job than they might throw in the towel and simply ignore working. I listened to Ekot's Saturday interview with the Director-General of the Employment Service. He described the consequences of the restructuring of Arbetsförmedlingen. The Director-General was very clear that this restructuring is due to the January agreement. Then you can of course also ask the question: How should the person who in Västerbotten gets 130 km to Arbetsförmedlingen afford to go on a visit or advice to apply for a job? So there are many questions about the travel allowance that are unanswered. It would also be interesting to ask the Minister of Finance whether you should be able to afford to drive to and from work.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-160	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jan Ericson, for a good interpellation! The car is the most important component for a living countryside. The subway is great in Stockholm, but it ends in Mörby and Norsborg. After that, the car mainly takes over. There are also buses and trains, but the majority of the country is extremely dependent on the car. The car is also important for the whole business community. This applies both when you want to get to work as well as for transport for industry and entrepreneurship. The car is also an incredibly important part of Stockholm County, which many do not say. From here and up to Singö and the municipality I come from it is 150 km. It's the northernmost part of the county. There's no subway or train. There are, however, two buses a day. If you live there, you have to have a car, or you can't live there. Sweden is a country that is extremely dependent on the export industry. 53 percent of bnp is money that we take home to Sweden through export, and without proper communications with cars in the country we can forget such large revenues. That is why we do not need to travel less, but more by air, train and car. It is therefore important to keep the travel allowance for the car.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-164	Madam President, I would like I want to thank Jan Ericson for a very important interpellation. A strong travel subsidy is important. You get a little worried when it's supposed to be distance-based. Today it is absolutely distance-based. You should get compensation for the kilometres and miles that you actually drive. However, it is worrying that the declaration constantly removes the deduction from the travel allowance. The car is important for the whole country to be able to be part of the skills supply to our companies. Companies are the basis of our entire welfare by the tax collective paying in taxes that can then become welfare for all of us. Where I come from, Västra Götaland and Stenungsund, there is a big deficiency, and it is called Bohusbanan. If we are to be part of Västra Götaland's labour market region, Bohusbanan must be given investment in feeder traffic to our companies. Today, businesses find it difficult to find skills. If you compare with the rest of the country, for example Stockholm, trains have the opportunity to increase the number of departures. That possibility is reached at Bohusbanan. We're not in a position to throw another train on the rails. The labour market region Västra Götaland is like a punk on the ball for the place I come from. By this I mean 35-minute traffic towards Gothenburg, which is our big city. That's why you get a little worried if it's going to be high-speed trains, which are going to connect our big cities with fast trains. We have no money for fast trains or to get to high-speed trains. As Stenungsundsbo, I am therefore concerned that the necessary investments in Bohusbanan are not being made. The car is very important. So strengthen the travel allowance so that the whole country can live!
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-171	Madam President, I would like There are two parliamentary investigations that have proposed a review of the travel allowance. It is both the Parliamentary Rural Committee and the Environmental Objectives Committee. The Rural Committee and, I believe, the Environmental Objectives Committee also point to a distance-based travel deduction. You can look at how you have done in Norway and Denmark, for example, where it is distance-based in that it is transport-neutrally designed. This is what they should look at, and it is in accordance with what parliamentary committees have proposed as a mission for the government to do. The Committee is now working on this, and we will later have the result. Then we will be able to prepare it in the usual order, and we will then return to the Riksdag. Of course, it will be important for the government in this work to ensure the possibility of living and living in rural areas. There is a need in parts of Sweden where there is no public transport to be able to travel by car instead, and it should be possible to do so even with a new travel deduction system. Labour shortages are addressed by several participants in the interpellation debate. Of course, an enlargement of the region provides opportunities for work commuting with both public transport and car, and it is important to reduce labour shortages. Another important thing is to train the shortage of labour. Unfortunately, the opportunities for this have been seriously hampered during the year thanks to the extensive reductions in labour market policy implemented by the Moderates.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-175	Madam President, I would like I tried to write at the same time as listening to the Minister for Finance, because there is a lot I would like to object to. Let me start with the overindexation, something that has been up several times here. The Minister of Finance said in a previous interpellation debate that the moderate and Christian Democratic budget only removed the over-indexation for this year. It was very clear that we did not want to reintroduce it in the coming years. However, since we made a change in the government budget for this year, that is what the budget shows. However, we were very clear that we want to remove the overindexation permanently. If it has not been clear to the Minister for Finance before, I hope it is now. The Minister of Finance also said earlier that the Moderates and Christian Democrats slaughter the environmental budget. But it is larger than the Finance Minister's own environmental budget as late as 2016. It is interesting that the Minister of Finance now believes that her own environmental budget from 2016 was so bad. It's fascinating, I think. Perhaps the number of crowns spent is not what is crucial for the environment but what you actually get for them. Is an increase in the tax on petrol an effective environmental measure, as the Minister of Finance said earlier? I mean it depends entirely on who you're talking about. If you talk about people living in rural areas who have to take the car to work, it does not matter how much the Minister of Finance raises the tax on petrol. Unfortunately, they have to pay for it anyway. They have to take the car, because there is no alternative. In this way it can be said that it is completely ineffective in rural areas. It will only be a further dairy cow for tricky finance ministers, without the slightest benefit to the environment. I thank you for your answer on how to design a new travel allowance. Transport-neutral sounds nice, but in practice it means that those who benefit from the tax-funded public transport system will also receive a more generous deduction today. However, those who cannot use the public transport that you are involved in paying with your own tax should receive a reduced travel allowance. This is the meaning of this. It thus disadvantages the countryside and benefits the people who live near the big cities but still have a few miles to work and can use the metro or public transport. The Minister of Finance spoke in an earlier debate about green tax exchange. At that time I suspected a perhaps slightly changed view from the Minister of Finance. She said that those affected by increased taxes on petrol should be compensated by reduced taxes on income. But the only thing that exists about this in the January agreement is the abolition of military tax. There are no other proposals to cut income tax for ordinary people at all. However, there are clear indications that environmental taxes should be increased. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance straight to the point: does the Minister of Finance promise further income tax reductions, which are not included in the January agreement, for ordinary wage earners and pensioners as compensation for increased environmental taxes? The Minister of Finance should be able to answer yes or no to that question, or at least say whether she has that intention.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-181	Madam President, I would like I think my colleague Jan Ericson is onto something when he says that the Minister of Finance sees motorism as a dairy cow. You will always find arguments for increasing petrol tax, diesel tax or vehicle tax because it is necessary to have a car for those living in Gävleborg. Kjell Jansson is quite right, of course. I apologise if I have ever said that you do not need a car in Stockholm. I have to correct myself: Those who live in Stockholm city centre, for example at Södermalm, and bikes with their subsidised electric bike to work do not have the same need for a car. But the important thing when we talk about travel expenses is, of course, that you should be able to afford to get to and from work. I note that the Minister for Finance claims to share this view and respect the existence of labour market regions and the need for people to commute by car to and from work. Jan Ericson referred to several professional groups. In another interpellation debate, the Minister of Finance was well aware that many LO groups find it difficult to get to and from work without a car. The important thing then is, of course, that words and actions go together. Like Jan Ericson, I do not find any large-scale tax cuts for pensioners, unemployed people, sick leave or households with normal incomes. What I have seen is that the tax is to be reduced by removing the defence tax for those with the highest incomes on 1 January. I don't know how much it costs, maybe 5 to 6 billion. You're supposed to finance it with the red tax shift, the red tax increase. I'm also curious about the answer. Can the Finance Minister promise in this debate, here and now, that ordinary households will not have large and wide-ranging tax increases to finance the removal of the military tax?
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-185	Madam President, I would like It is really very strange that the current level of 18.50 in travel deductions has not been adjusted for over ten years. On the other hand, the floor of the travel allowance has constantly been adjusted, which has eroded the value of the deduction. This is what our interpellation debate is now dealing with. You get a little worried when the Minister of Finance talks about transport being neutral. Is it again the case that the countryside should pay for the city's public transport? Is it the case that the person who bikes on his subsidized e-bike should have the same travel allowance as the person who needs the car for everyday life to work and who lives where the roads are no longer maintained and where snow clearance barely reaches and certainly not on the awkward working hours when the LO worker needs to move to provide care with his or her working skills? Then I am really worried about the development that the red-green government is taking the country to. But I hope that Magdalena, our Minister for Finance, can go up and calm down on this issue and tell us that that is not the way it is supposed to be.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-188	Madam President, I would like Sofia Westergren wonders how distance-based travel deduction is intended. I wonder what the Moderates have been thinking. The Moderates of the Rural Committee instructed the government to investigate a distance-based travel deduction. Sofia Westergren might ask Jessica Polfjärd, as if I remember correctly was the one who was on the Rural Committee. It is also the case that the Environmental Objectives Committee proposed to review the travel allowances. But it is quite correct that when you look at such a system you also have to look at how it strikes in the city and in the countryside. I am not sure that those in the Rural Committee who asked the government to look at it in this way had thought it through to the full. But of course this committee needs to do so. Otherwise, we must look at it properly on the part of the government when we have the proposal on our table; we cannot go forward with a system that is unreasonable in terms of the balance between urban and rural areas in terms of travel deductions. A straight answer to a straight question, Jan Ericson : The value tax will not be part of the green tax exchange. It is not yet clear what taxes should be increased and which taxes should be reduced. But one thing is clear: the birth tax will not be part of this. We will not increase any petrol tax and then lower the military tax – answer no. When we look at the Moderate table, we do not see that the indexation would be gone in your calculations. In your income calculations is indexation for 2020 and 2021. You've only stopped indexing for 2019. Then you may have changed—it may be that you want to stop it for 2020 and 2021 as well. But that's not what's in the table now. Again: The government is now reviewing the travel deductions, including the invitation of Moderates here in the Riksdag, and will be able to return when there is a proposal.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-193	Madam President, I would like The discussion about the travel deductions and how they can be designed in the future is becoming interesting. On the subject of transport neutrality, I would like to say that there are really only two ways in which the system can be changed. Either you can add much more money to the system, i.e. increase the cost to the State of the total travel allowance, so that you can keep the travel allowance for those who drive far by car and also introduce something similar for those who do not drive, or you can reduce the compensation for those who have high actual costs in order to at the same time introduce something similar for those who do not have these costs. It would be interesting to receive a reply from the Minister of Finance to whether she is prepared to increase the budget line for the travel allowance or whether this is to be done within the existing financial framework. That would have been interesting to know. Then I think it is another issue that we forget in the debate. We talk a lot about employees who are going to get to work, but we often forget all small businesses that are completely dependent on their cars in the service, cars that in many cases are large petrol-sucking service cars on which, moreover, there have been quite a lot of extra taxes over the years. Without them, it would not be possible either to run the green industries or to implement the RUT, REP and ROT services that we see as so successful. There are also many other service professions that need cars. Is there any discussion on this in the directives on the deduction of travel expenses? The January agreement explicitly mentions increased environmental taxes, but no income taxes other than the military tax are mentioned at all. That sounds very strange.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-196	Madam President, I would like We will certainly have more opportunities to discuss the travel allowance, not least after the Committee has presented its proposal, which will then be prepared. It will be interesting to see what kind of proposal it will be and what important aspects it will then come into play. The Government can then return with proposals to the Riksdag. I am also looking forward to a further debate. The travel allowance plays an important role in facilitating work commuting for people who are not able to travel by public transport. Since it is important to have a regional expansion for companies and to be able to supply labour, it is important not only that there are good conditions in general for companies and that there is access to skilled labour. Unfortunately, this will be reduced now because of Moderate cuts in labour market policy. It is also important that there are travel deductions that are well designed based on the fact that Sweden is a sparsely populated and large country. Again, Jan Ericson : The tax is not part of the green tax exchange. The tax reduction that will take place in the green tax exchange will include other taxes. Exactly what taxes we are going to raise and which we are going to lower, we will come back to in the coming years.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-199	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me whether I intend to reintroduce property tax similar to that which the Alliance removed during the term of office. Changes in tax rules must always be handled with great care and care about the economic conditions of individuals. Larry Söder argues that the previous property tax was unfair, but at the same time there are many who think that the current property tax is unfair because it is regressive. With the January agreement there is an agreement on a tax reform. It shall be able to contribute, inter alia, to improving the functioning of the housing market. Some details of the tax reform have not been locked down at this stage, but I am convinced that all questions will come up on the table. This also applies to property fee and its design.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-202	Madam President, I would like When the alliance government took away the property tax, many around the country took a sigh of relief. Countless examples of how people were affected by the property tax had been discussed in the media for a long time. I think everyone could agree that it was unfair and drove people from house and home. The then party leader of the Christian Democrats Göran Hägglund said, among other things, that you can't eat the wood on the house, to give a picture of people with small incomes getting a very high property tax because they lived in the wrong place – a place or a place where their family might have lived for generations. Since then, in the mid-2000s, property tax has been dead in the political debate, until a while ago. It seems to be increasingly part of an equation to increase the tax burden on people and to be able to pay the future expenditure of the state. I would argue that more is being discussed only for economic purposes in the form of increased tax, not for distribution policy purposes or on the basis of the idea that no one should be able to own their own home, but completely cynically in crowns into the treasury. I have also seen interviews with government representatives who do not dismiss the idea of a new property tax, but say a little openly that in a tax review everything is on the table. Both the previous system and the current system are based on assessment values. However, since no ceiling existed in the old system, property tax had today been the blow to many, not least when the latest rate in several parts of the country increased sharply. In Gothenburg it increased by 34 per cent and in Västra Götaland by 27 per cent. For an average small house in Göteb org, with a market value of SEK 5 million, a restored property tax with a model based on the previous system would amount to SEK 38 000 per year. It is also worth emphasising that some people want the corresponding tax to apply to the right-of-occupancy property. For me personally, there is a big difference between the previous property tax and the property tax that exists today. There is a connection to the fact that the fee paid today is to be viewed on the basis that a property owner enjoys some things from society that one should be able to co-finance, such as the fire defence. That link did not exist with the previous property tax. The previous property tax was also not linked to income. It hit the low - income person as hard as the high - income person in an area. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance whether she can justify even having such a shock increase in the tax on houseowners on the table in a future tax debate or whether it should not be as good to dismiss it directly so that we can discuss other taxes instead.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-211	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder says that there is a logic in that there is a ceiling on property tax because there are certain things you enjoy. Then it is important to be clear that when the tax reform was carried out in 1990 – 1991, it was a completely different logic for what the property tax looked like. On the one hand, you had interest deductions, which remain, where you may deduct interest on the loans you take on your property. On the other hand, there was a fictitious return tax on the property in the form of property tax. There it is said that there was a logic in the tax system. Now the property tax has been removed, but the interest deductions are still in place. In fact, then, we have a tax system that favours borrowing in a way that was not considered reasonable in any case in 1990-1991. This may be one of the reasons why we are seeing an increase in household indebtedness. That was the logic behind what it looked like earlier. Larry Söder says you have to see that in terms of distribution policy. If you see the distribution policy what the fee looks like today, it is clearly regressive. If you look at what has happened since the Christian Democrats were involved in pushing for the abolition of the property tax, 160 of the country's municipalities have received a higher fee today than when they abolished the old tax. The costs have increased by over 50 percent in Gällivare, Pajala and Arjeplog. There live, as we all know, not a huge number of high-income people. In contrast, 65 municipalities pay less than before 2008. These are municipalities like Nacka, Vellinge and Täby. The biggest reduction is in Lidingö and Danderyd where costs have been halved. The distribution profile of the Christian Democrats' reform was, to say the least, not clear. On the other hand, the government has not pushed for the restoration of property tax. At the same time, I will not prevent anyone from putting it on the table. Now that we are going to discuss a tax reform as a whole, of course, all the issues will come up on the table. It can certainly be that someone will also highlight property tax. At the same time, it is important that any changes made in a tax reform must be very careful. Buying a property is one of the biggest decisions people make during their lives. Therefore, no matter what decisions you make, politics cannot do so in such a way as to pull the carpet away from individual households.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-217	Madam President, I would like A re-imposed property tax would significantly increase the tax compared to its levels in 2007, which is explained by the fact that prices on the housing market have skyrocketed in the last decade. Should the property tax be reintroduced according to the old model, 1 per cent of the tax value, this year's house tax would shock many households. In Halland, from which I come, a reinstated property tax would mean an annual tax of an average of $2,500. This compares with SEK 7,800 which is for the property fee. There are of course large variations between the county's municipalities. In Kungsbacka a tax would be SEK 32 200, in Varberg SEK 22 600 and in Halmstad SEK 20 200. Even for the small houses in Hylte, which is the smallest municipality in the county, there would be an increase – by SEK 1 365. I'd like to say that the accommodation is not a commodity like any other that you can sell or buy at any time. It is your dwelling where you feel at home and safe and where you know you can be for a time to come. Then you simply cannot sell the property just because it is in the wrong place. I am genuinely concerned when, last week, Minister of Finance and Housing Per Bolund spoke about future changes in the taxation of the housing market. He told Svenska Dagbladet that there will be major reforms in the housing market. It does not create the calm in the housing market that I think would be needed to build more housing, rather the opposite. Since the property tax is now bringing in more revenue than the old property tax did – however you count it is – it obviously means that a change is an increased burden on property owners. Since we know that most of the citizens want to own their own accommodation, I think that is the wrong way to go. We heard the Minister of Finance say that the government will not pursue the issue of property tax. Should I think of it as a will-oriented approach – that the government does not actually want to introduce a property tax? I would like the Minister of Finance to talk about this, no matter what other parties post or do not post on the table. It is the government that I ask, and it would be interesting to know whether the government has any plans whatsoever to introduce the property tax. I think there are many small house owners who would like to know.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-223	Madam President, I would like The property fee brings in more revenue than the old property tax, which is now abolished. Those who pay more are therefore those who live in the rural communities of the country. The property tax imposed by the Christian Democrats has a clear urban profile. The increase concerns the people who live in the sparsely populated parts of our country, where public transport does not work, as we have talked about earlier this afternoon. They are the ones who have received an increased property tax, while all those who live on the solar side in Lidingö and Danderyd have had a fall. That was the result of the Christian Democrats' reform. Minister of Finance Per Bolund has said that there will be major reforms in the housing market. I am convinced that he is talking mainly about housing construction, where we want to carry out important reforms so that we can build new housing more quickly. For example, it is a question of being able to produce similar houses more quickly and easily in one municipality without having to go through the same large permit process every time you build similar properties. It could be something that speeds up construction. To make it easier for industrial builders to produce more land and faster planning processes in different ways are other important and major reforms in the residential area. As far as property tax is concerned, I have been Minister of Finance for four and a half years, and we have not reintroduced the old property tax. Nor is that something on which we Social Democrats have gone to elections. I have said that, in the run-up to the tax reform, I will not prevent anyone from putting an issue on the table. I will not rule things out in advance, but here we will be able to look at the whole. What is extremely important, however, is to have a great deal of care and respect for all households that have made a home purchase – which is the biggest economic decision ever made – and for the housing situation that individual households find themselves in. I share the view that housing is not just a commodity that can only be exchanged for another dwelling under new conditions. Here it is important to take great care of the situation of individual households.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-227	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying about Per Bolund, who is the Minister for Housing, not now talking about tax changes in housing construction, but only about other types of reforms. I am pleased about that, because what housing doesn't need right now is ambivalence in terms of what taxes are in place, what taxes are in progress and what costs are actually going to be incurred by homeowners in the end. 82% of Sweden's population wants to live in their own home, and I think it's just like the Minister for Finance says: They want long-term rules of play, and they want to know what happens in the future. Then you can't just throw in a thing like property tax and think it goes unnoticed. Nevertheless, I interpret the Minister for Finance's reply as saying that she will not agree to a property tax in these negotiations at all. If any other party is in charge of the matter, the Minister of Finance cannot, of course, do anything about it, but the government's view is that there will be no property tax during the term of office. I am pleased with this clarification, and I think that the owners of small houses are also very happy about the announcement. Then we can move forward and hope that there will be long-term rules of play after the tax debate that has taken place.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-230	Madam President, I would like Let me once again make it clear that I am not going to say either bu or bä anything in advance in the tax debate that has taken place. If a major tax reform is to be carried out, I do not think that this is the time to go in and lock yourself in one position or the other. Here it is important to have all the balls in the air to be able to take a wide and collected grip. What I am saying is that everything that we are going to implement will be done with great concern for individual companies and households that carry out various activities or that, for example, have taken a major investment decision. In all the changes that are taking place, we will take into account the consequences this will have for households and for companies across the country.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-232	Madam President, I would like Kjell Jansson has asked me whether I can guarantee that I will not work to restore wealth tax or inheritance and gift tax and whether I intend to increase the overall tax burden in Sweden with the tax reform to be implemented. Part of the government's policy is based on the January agreement. The agreement provides for a comprehensive tax reform. The reform will, among other things, increase employment and the number of hours worked with reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship and strengthen Sweden's competitiveness. At the same time, it will smooth out today's growing economic gaps and ensure long-term welfare. At this stage, some details of the tax reform have not been frozen, but I am convinced that all issues will come up on the table. Obviously, such a major reform must also have a reasonable distributional policy profile. The need for tax reform is something I have been pointing out for a long time. That we can now get started is good, and the work we have ahead of us is important.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-235	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance. I asked two questions: can the Minister of Finance guarantee that she will not work to restore wealth tax and inheritance and gift tax? And does the Minister of Finance intend to increase the overall tax burden in Sweden with the tax reform to be implemented? I find no answer to any of the questions. Sweden has the world's highest tax burden and the EU's third lowest growth right now. The tax burden must be reduced in order for us to get the wheels to spin in business. Sweden is the most export-dependent country in Europe. That is why I wonder: when will the tax reform come? The Minister of Finance is obliged to answer whether or not the wealth tax and the inheritance and gift tax will be introduced. Work on a new tax reform has been signalled for a long time. This also applies to paragraph 4 of the January Agreement. I wonder: which parties will be allowed to participate in this task force? Will it only be the parties that have settled their case on the JÖK, or will it also be the opposition? I would also like to hear whether the Minister for Finance is satisfied that Sweden has the world's highest tax burden, especially on labour? I ask the question, given that when we want people to stop smoking and consume alcohol, we raise the alcohol and tobacco tax. Why, then, do we have such high taxes on labour in Sweden? That's my question. Germany, for example, has much lower taxes and no worse welfare than Sweden has.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-239	Madam President, I would like I was a little taken by the claim about German welfare. I was just talking to a German friend whose mother has less tax-funded elderly care than my mother has. It looks a little different. On the other hand, if we are to talk about taxes on labour, Sweden has a higher employment rate than Germany despite our taxes on labour. We have the highest employment rate that any EU country has ever had. That, if anything, proves well that the equation is not quite as simple as Kjell Jansson gives by the hand. This is, of course, about how to levy taxes but also about what you use the tax money for. For example, it can be elderly care, so that I can stand here and debate rather than be at home and take care of my old mother – which I also like to do. The tax reform will not answer you about. It's too soon. We are just in the initial phase, and I do not think it is good to start so much work on excluding individual tax issues. This was also heard by the Member of Parliament in the previous interpellation debate. I will keep this open. We are not finished with exactly what the design of the work will look like. We will come to that. However, I have heard from the Moderates that they do not seem to be very interested.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-243	Madam President, I would like I still do not receive an answer from the Minister of Finance to these questions. They're unanswered. It is interesting that the Minister of Finance is addressing elderly care. Maybe it's not the ship we're supposed to brag about the most in this Chamber. There are major deficiencies in elderly care in many parts of Sweden. There are also good examples, but there are still major shortcomings. So does the Minister of Finance. This applies not least to the municipalities and regions that the Social Democrats govern in the country. The property tax has already been mentioned, but it is also interesting how the Minister of Finance thinks about the 3:12 rules and fuel taxes in the run-up to such a tax reform. For entrepreneurs, however, the 3:12 rules are a form of double taxation. First you pay tax on the profits of your companies, and then when you have to withdraw the money you have to pay tax one more time. There have recently been two reports from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Timbro that address this issue of taxes. It would be interesting to hear how the Minister of Finance views those reports, which want a different form of tax exchange from that proposed in the JÖK. Instead, it is proposed to increase VAT on certain amounts and reduce taxes on labour.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-247	Madam President, I would like There are absolutely major problems with care for the elderly in Sweden. Doing as the Moderates did on 1 January and reducing the tax by 20 billion is not a way to strengthen the care of the elderly. As far as the issues of tax reform are concerned, it is work and how exactly it should be designed, as has been said, precisely in its infancy. Even less do we know what will come out of it. It's not done. There are no answers yet, and so I cannot give any.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-249	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister for Finance will not give any information on the question I have asked, as in the previous interpellation debate. I guess we'll just have to keep interpelling and asking. Nevertheless, I believe that the Minister for Finance is guilty of the answer in this House, both to Parliament and to our citizens. I would also like to say that high taxes are not always associated with high quality welfare services. You can see in municipalities how tax rates differ and what you spend on different welfare sectors such as education and care for the elderly. It's not always high costs give higher quality. It's easy to believe. I would argue that it is more crucial how to manage the business.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-251	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is important how to manage welfare activities, but if you do not have the resources required, there is no governance in the world that helps. Our domestic staff, running on minute schedules, can't run any faster. As we are now getting more older, it is about ensuring that there are resources so that our elderly can have a safe everyday life. It will never be possible if the policy of tax benches voted by the Moderates continues. We are at the beginning of a tax reform. It is a work that has just begun. Then it is not reasonable for me to stand in the Chamber and respond to what will come out of that process, which will take years. It will not be possible to carry out a tax reform. If you want to have those requirements, you can never start major work to make changes. The aim of major changes and long-term jobs is precisely to do something new. Then you shouldn't have all the answers at first. Then it would be just to do that. It's about putting together a puzzle for how we can create a long-term sustainable tax system that provides both good drivers for work and entrepreneurship and steers better environmentally, while at the same time having a good distribution profile. That is the work that is now to be carried out, and until it is done, I will not put a stop to the work by standing here and excluding individual changes. It would not be responsible for the long-term sustainability of the tax system.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-254	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked me, firstly, what measures I intend to take to ensure that the consequences of the new tax burden on computer halls do not have significant negative effects and, secondly, what I intend to do to prevent the tax burden on Swedish companies from increasing during the term of office. The government has for several years been working to provide the data centre industry with good conditions. Following government proposals, the energy tax has first been reduced for the user of electricity in a computer hall, and then the definition of a computer hall has been extended to include more data centres. The tax reduction and enlargement have meant that the industry has a fiscal advantage. The Swedish Tax Agency's position is about who is considered to consume electricity in a computer hall and is therefore entitled to the tax reduction. In a situation where a company rents its equipment in another company's computer center, the Swedish Tax Agency considers that it is the tenant who is considered to consume the electricity and can apply for a refund of the energy tax. The meaning of the Swedish Tax Agency's position is therefore that the energy tax is reduced even in this case. I will follow the question of the administrative impact on businesses. With regard to Niklas Wykman's second question, I would like to begin by pointing out that, during the last parliamentary term, this government presented proposals for new tax rules for the corporate sector, which included a reduction in corporate tax, while making tax planning with internal and external loans more difficult. The reduction will take place in two stages during this term of office, and the first step was already taken at the end of the year. The Government has also submitted a proposal to the Riksdag to facilitate generational shifts in small-time businesses. The proposal means that it will be the same tax in the event of a transfer of a parent company to a related party as to a third party.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-258	Madam President, I would like We heard a somewhat classy reading of the answer from the Minister for Finance – perhaps not quite the passion and glow that I hope from a finance minister when it comes to Swedish entrepreneurship, Swedish entrepreneurship and Swedish job creation, but in any case. At the heart of this issue, Madam President, is the uncertainty that the Finance Minister and the associated authorities are spreading about investing, about running businesses and about creating jobs to create economic growth and building large, strong tax bases that allow us to finance our welfare when she repeatedly comes up with various kinds of threats or implicit threats to the ability to run businesses and invest in Sweden. This with the server halls is an example. Under the alliance government, work was started to make Sweden competitive and attractive for those who want to run new types of innovative companies, but now it is unclear which conditions apply. This has also been the case for health services, where the Swedish Tax Agency has made a decision to suddenly get much higher VAT, which prevents many who are active in the industry. When the Minister of Finance presented the proposal that would facilitate generational shifts in the few-man company, the Minister of Finance could not help threatening all Swedish entrepreneurs at the same time with the fact that around the corner there was also a large tax increase. This rhetoric, Magdalena Andersson, leads to that the management of Sweden is not as good as it should be. As a result, we do not get the growth, the jobs or the new businesses that we could have had. Now, of course, the Minister of Finance can say: yes, but Sweden has done well during the time I have been Minister of Finance. And that is to some extent true. Magdalena Andersson has been pulled forward with heels in the ground by a very strong global economic cycle. It is clear that it has also helped a country like Sweden, no matter how much misery the Finance Minister has tried to find alongside. However, you get another picture when you compare us with other countries to see if Sweden has been better able to take advantage of the boom than other countries have. The answer to that is unequivocally no. It is against this background that my question to the Minister for Finance is being asked, namely the combination of making small improvement measures and then constantly threatening that major deteriorations and major tax increases are waiting around the bend. When you look at how Sweden has turned out, you see that in comparison with other countries it has gone so badly that the government has even abolished its own goals. The Minister of Finance had a goal that we should have the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. It went so badly with the goal that the Minister of Finance abolished it. There is not even once left after we have fallen as a stone in these statistics after Magdalena Andersson's tax and welfare policy. IMD measures entrepreneurship and innovation capacity in countries, where we have slipped from fifth to ninth place. In the World Economic Forum's measurement of the ability to be innovative, we have also lost. When the European Commission now makes its forecasts of economic growth, we are certainly no longer the worst, but third the worst. When it comes to bnp per capita, it is now widely known that Sweden has acute problems with economic growth. Yet, Mr President, the Minister of Finance is constantly putting forward various threats of tax increases that will come, and she is not taking care of her authorities in such a way that those who invest in Sweden are given predictable conditions.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-265	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman calls for more passion. Now, interpellation debates are not usually the most passionate events, but Niklas Wykman is welcome when I first speak at Norra Bantorget. Then he will hear passion also in terms of the ability to run companies and create jobs in Sweden. I would like to point out that we Social Democrats were clear about, when I was an economic-political spokesperson and long before the Moderates, that we wanted a reduced tax on computer halls. I am pleased that the Moderates then in government set up an investigation and changed their mind on this issue. Then, during this government, we have been able to implement the reduction first and then also enlargement. Niklas Wykman thinks I should rule my authority more. I know that if I did, Niklas Wykman or some other Moderate would instead report me for ministerial rule. We have independent authorities that clarify the legislation, and there is, of course, an opportunity for companies to appeal if they think there is a wrong interpretation. Niklas Wykman believes that we have made small improvements for companies. You can value it as you think. On the other hand, many companies that I meet feel that the company tax shift that has been carried out is important. It was a work that began in the time that Niklas Wykman was at the Ministry of Finance, which we could then continue and which means that we broaden the base but lower the tax for the companies. Now we have tax cuts while reducing the possibilities for tax evasion with different deductions. Something is urgent. When I meet companies, there are two main points. One is a shortage of labour and the other is that the workforce you find has difficulty moving to where the jobs are. Here the government has come up with important measures both in terms of expanding the knowledge boost so that more people can take the jobs that are emerging and that investment aid for housing, which the Moderates want to abolish, will now be able to remain so that more rental apartments can be built. If you look at what it looks like over a few years, the economic development in Sweden is good. We are a little earlier in the economic cycle than many of the other EU countries. This means that we have entered a phase of slowdown earlier than the other countries. On the other hand, we entered the economic upturn earlier than the other countries did. In a few years, therefore, Sweden is well placed in the growth league.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-271	Mr President, I would like to The fact that Sweden entered early into a boom may have to do with the alliance government preparing a strong recovery in Sweden with job tax deductions, tightened grant systems, strengthened driving forces to work, reduced corporate tax and increased incentives to invest and operate companies in Sweden. The fact that Sweden is now moving out of the boom earlier than other countries may have to do with Magdalena Andersson having done exactly the opposite and taking down the drive to work, increased tax on working, made it difficult for companies to grow and threatened to introduce new types of taxes, regulations and burdens when it comes to creating work in Sweden. Leaving the boom earlier may be due to Magdalena Andersson threatening the whole of Sweden's important base industry with increased fuel taxes, that air taxes are introduced and will also be increased, according to the government, what I can understand, and that she also introduces kilometer taxes and says that we will now spend 15 billion extra on creating jobs and operating industry around our country. There may be a connection, Mr President, between us entering the economic boom earlier because the then government was pursuing a job-friendly and business-friendly policy and leaving the boom earlier because this government is pursuing a subsidy-friendly and anti-business policy. There may be such a connection. When the Finance Minister is asked by me about authorities that create uncertainty and impose burdens on those who want to create jobs, drive economic growth and secure tax bases in Sweden, she turns away and says: I cannot do anything about that. But the truth is that the Minister of Finance can certainly do something about it, perfectly legal and perfectly reasonable, without for that reason being guilty of ministerial government. This can be done by changing laws and clarifying rules or by writing regulatory letters to the authorities clarifying what their mission is. But Magdalena Andersson does not do any of this but lets authorities create bad conditions for those who want to operate in Sweden. Take responsibility, Magdalena Andersson – do your job, and don't blame yourself! I cannot understand how, as Minister of Finance, we do not react strongly to the fact that, according to IMD and the World Economic Forum, we are losing competitiveness and innovation ability towards the outside world. When it is noted that we have the third lowest economic growth in the whole of the European Union, that we have huge problems with productivity and economic development per person in our country and that we end up in the category of current development and change among the worst countries, then we should act as finance ministers. Packages should be put forward, laws changed, liberalisations made easier to set up and run businesses throughout the country. We should reduce taxes on investment and innovation and create better conditions for higher education, for research and for more dynamism in our economy so that we can afford the best welfare, the best care for the elderly and the best health care. Mr President, I would like to On the contrary, this Finance Minister does and threatens with even more of the taxes that already weigh on Sweden when it comes to living outside the big cities, when it comes to our basic industry, forest industry and mining industry and when it comes to starting new companies and being entrepreneurial. Here new taxes are constantly threatened. Magdalena Andersson has not missed a single opportunity to talk about her wanting to raise taxes for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. Does the Minister of Finance really believe that we are going to break this negative trend that we have been in during the reign of the Minister for Finance by doing even more of what has proved to be bad?
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-277	Mr President, I would like to I note that in the years that I have been Minister of Finance, 350 000 more jobs have been created in Sweden. Some 250 000 of them are in private business, but well so important is that 100 000 are in our important welfare activities. The employment rate is the highest ever recorded in any EU country, and the proportion of people living on different forms of transfers is the lowest since 1980. This has happened at the same time as we have paid off on public debt, which is now the lowest since 1977. During these years, Sweden has also climbed into a wide range of international studies concerning, among other things, the functioning of the economy and competitiveness. This is a policy that we want to continue to develop over the coming years. However, it is not, as the Moderates pushed through, essentially a question of general tax cuts; it is now a question of ensuring that what companies are asking for, namely skilled labour, housing and infrastructure, is also delivered. The government will do that with the work we are doing. We are also making improvements where, as I pointed out, we not only reduce corporate tax but also facilitate generation shifts in small businesses. There are many further proposals that we could tell you about, including better conditions for running businesses in sparsely populated areas through the broadband expansion that is now receiving additional resources in our amending budget. This is a policy that we will continue to develop to ensure good conditions for both large and small companies to operate throughout the country.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-282	Mr President, I would like to No one who is serious and well-read denies that Sweden has been in a strong boom together with the rest of the world. For an export-dependent country like Sweden, it goes without saying that it has a positive impact on employment development, investment and so on. But what the Minister of Finance does not want to talk about is that it has not had as positive an impact in Sweden as it has had in other countries. For other countries have had a better policy, while we have had a worse policy. If you have a sailboat and lift sails, it's no wonder you're going forward. But the others go faster than we do, because we have hoisted a worse sail. We have raised Magdalena Andersson, simply, and then it does not work out. We have lost when it comes to entrepreneurship, when it comes to innovation and when it comes to how the world sees us as a country to be active and invest in. Here, the Minister of Finance has piled problems on problems and put a burden on those who want to run businesses, create jobs and build tax bases that will finance welfare here in Sweden. It has been about tax increases on labour and education. It has been about allowing authorities to interpret laws and regulations in a way that makes it even more difficult to operate here, and it has been about deporting the excellence of companies in a completely unreasonable way without any action from the government. We are now seeing how authorities create problems for healthcare services, for hospitals outside the major cities and for the opportunities to operate innovative server halls in Sweden. We see how the Minister of Finance is constantly threatening entrepreneurship with increased taxes. This, Magdalena Andersson, will not lead to more jobs. This will not lead to higher growth. This will not result in us getting stronger tax bases in Sweden, but it will go exactly as it did when Magdalena Andersson was Secretary of State with responsibility for taxes: It will be worse for Sweden.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-287	Mr President, I would like to This is what it's been sounding from Niklas Wykman for four and a half years. During that time, jobs have increased and unemployment has fallen. The share of persons in transfers has decreased, growth has been good and public debt has decreased. It is a policy that we intend to continue to pursue. Looking back a few years in other comparable countries, growth in Sweden has been good. Our employment is highest in Europe, and our public finances are among the strongest in Europe. A good business environment is important for companies. The government will continue to work to strengthen the business environment, not only for our large companies but also for the small ones on a wide range of issues. It is about overcoming the labour shortage, it is about infrastructure, it is about housing and it is about support for export subsidies for small companies. It is about broadband expansion across the country, and it is about ensuring that there are well-functioning roads to transport on even when you live far out in the country. That is a wide range of questions. This is a labor that has borne fruit. We see this in our good development and also in the fact that we have climbed into a wide range of international studies on entrepreneurship and competitiveness compared to when Niklas Wykman sat in the Ministry of Finance. We are continuing this development, and then we will see how it sounds during the term of office. I'm looking forward to that!
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-293	Mr President, I would like to Tobias Andersson has asked me what value the government sees in increasing and extending the chemical tax and whether the government can account for whether the tax has achieved its purpose regarding reduced use of flame retardants in electronic products, or reduced consumption of the same. First of all, I would like to point out that the tax revenue of 2.4 billion referred to by Tobias Andersson is not in line with the tax revenue estimated by the government. This figure was presented in the Chemical Taxation Report, which was submitted in March 2015, and is based on the proposal presented there. The design of the tax was partially modified for the introduction and the government's estimate of tax revenues was lower. The aim of the tax is to reduce the supply of dangerous substances to people's home environment and thereby protect human health. The government estimates that a balanced increase in the chemical tax can give the initially low-set tax increased governance in that direction. The aim of the tax is not to put an end to the use of flame retardants in electronics but to drive their use towards more environmentally and health-friendly alternatives.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-296	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. I would like to start by drawing the attention of the Minister for Finance to the fact that I am quite clear about the purpose of the tax. I also support the purpose as such. It goes without saying that we must protect human health from dangerous substances. Here I know that there is no disagreement among all the parties in Sweden. On the other hand, there is a great deal of disagreement about the effectiveness and impact of the chemical tax, in terms of two separate aspects: the purely economic aspects, and the environmental and health aspects. It is my view and that of various stakeholders that the chemical tax as it is designed today limits Swedish competitiveness and is ineffective in terms of potential positive environmental and health aspects. This is by no means new criticism but criticism that has been raised in the preparatory work, in the introduction and now again in connection with the government's announcement of the increase and extension in the January agreement. The Swedish Trade Investigation Institute has previously estimated that between 600 and 1,400 jobs have already been lost in Sweden as a consequence of the chemical tax that Magdalena Andersson is now raising, a direct consequence of this tax hitting one-sidedly against Swedish traders while exempting the foreign ones. The Swedish market, in order to take it mildly, is too marginal for any of the major electronics giants to let their production be influenced by rules that Magdalena Andersson introduces here. At the same time, as there is global competition in terms of pricing, it is natural for consumers to choose to import their electronics instead of turning to their local electronics trade, whereupon jobs and VAT revenues are lost in Sweden. This is a fact of which the Minister of Finance is, of course, very well aware. It is therefore quite strange that the government did not attempt to rework the form of the tax in connection with the announced increase. However, after the advertising, the Swedish Trade Investigation Institute again carried out a calculation indicating that an increased chemical tax would lead to a loss of sales of up to SEK 6 billion and thus even more job losses in Swedish trade. But even if we believe that the consequences are not so drastic at all, the tax is and remains directly harmful to our business community. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr President, whether she shares the view that the chemical tax is unilaterally hitting Swedish industry. If the Minister of Finance does not share that picture, I would ask her to clarify. With this question raised, I note that the Government is also obliged to answer the question of the economic value she sees that the tax generates. My final question in this speech, Mr President, will also be whether the Government intends to try to take action at European level in order not to unilaterally impair the competitiveness of Swedish companies in the way they are doing now.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-306	Mr President, I would like to I am well aware of the studies carried out by the Trade Investigation Institute. It is important to point out that it is not that they have studied the effects of the tax, but they have made a theoretical calculation with a different elasticity assumption than the investigation did. The assumptions the investigation has made do not apply to trade. The government made a different assessment in connection with the bill and when the tax was introduced. It may also be important to point out that the Trade Investigation Institute is paid by traders who may be affected by the tax. It is important to have with you when you refer to it. Do we believe that the production of giants will be affected by the fact that Sweden has such a tax? No, I don't think so. However, it can affect Swedish consumers' choice of products. The aim of the tax is to direct choices from products containing highly hazardous chemicals to choosing products containing a smaller amount of harmful chemicals and where such alternatives are available on the market. Would the tax control the global production of refrigerators? No, I don't think so. However, we can control which refrigerators are sold in Sweden. As Tobias Andersson points out, the fact that the tax cannot be levied on foreign companies is not entirely optimal. It would have been better if you could have done it. I'm open to looking at various alternative options. At the same time, it is important to point out that it is a matter of a private person buying a refrigerator directly from another company, for example from Denmark, and then the private person is responsible for the cost of transport, which is reasonably significantly higher than that for the transport of goods to a store in Sweden. It is not unreasonable to assume that the cost of transport for individuals may be so much higher that it is considering the increased cost of the tax.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-311	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, once again, for the answer from the Minister for Finance. Now it is not just a matter of the Trade Investigation Institute, but in principle all the consultation bodies rejected the proposal. Despite the Minister for Finance's answer, it is equally clear to me that the chemical tax, as it is designed, limits the competitiveness of Swedish industry. This is something that is not weighed up by the potential tax revenue that the tax generates for Magdalena Andersson to consume. Given this, I intend in this speech to leave the economic aspect and move on to what the government claims is the purpose of the tax and its design. It is obviously in the government's interest to try to promote the chemical tax as a vital environmental tax that will save Sweden's citizens from an evil death of chemicals. It is, however, a picture I intend to nuance something, Mr President. Neither Magdalena Andersson nor any other representative of the government has, in my view, been able to demonstrate some form of serious evidence that the chemical tax has reduced the use of the chemicals it allegedly combats. Magdalena Andersson describes this in purely hypothetical terms. The substances the government wants to reduce the spread of are already controlled and regulated by various regulations, not least the EU REACH regulation, which covers virtually all chemical substances. The Regulation requires producers or importers of products containing chemical substances to register them with the European Chemicals Agency. Substances that are not registered there must also not be released within the EU. A further important aspect of this existing regulation in this area is that it places the burden of proof on the producer and on the importer. In other words, they have to prove that the chemicals are not harmful – not the other way around. In addition, the EU can ban chemicals, or require specific authorisations for them. Why this EU regulation is not sufficient and what potential additional benefits the government's chemical tax is doing in this area, Magdalena Andersson has not yet been able to give an answer, Mr President. Regardless of this, there are major shortcomings in the design of the chemical tax, as most of the actors have highlighted before me. The tax is based on the weight of the product and not on the amount of harmful chemicals. Nor is there any distinction between the environmental and health risks of a substance, but the tax is equal regardless of the hazard in the chemical concerned. In addition, the tax also affects products that do not have the relevant chemicals. As mentioned earlier, a consumer can circumvent the tax through e-commerce from abroad. In other words, contrary to what Magdalena Andersson claims, there are no clear incentives for Swedish consumers to buy chemicals-free electronics – to the extent that is even possible. With this in mind, I would like once again to give the Minister of Finance the opportunity to answer if the tax has achieved its objective of reducing the use of flame retardants in electronic products or of reducing their consumption. Can the Minister of Finance give an example of a product, a product group or, for that matter, a company that changed its product composition according to the government's wishes? I don't think so, but I'm happy to hear such an example. The alternative is to provide clear concrete examples of why consumption would be different for Swedish consumers when one can easily circumvent the tax as it is designed.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-319	Mr President, I would like to The chemical tax, like many other taxes, is always a balance between having an exact precision in taxation and being administratively manageable. Of course, so is this treasure. We have tried to create a tax that is administratively manageable for both traders and the Swedish Tax Agency. This means that there are some simplifications in the tax that make it less precise than it would otherwise have had. It's a balance you always have to have. Our assessment is that the tax as it is designed has come to the right balance. I am, of course, prepared to listen to other suggestions for a more complicated but more precise tax. The tax has been in existence for about a year and a half. Our assessment is that it is too early to evaluate the tax, but it should of course be done when the tax has been operating for a little longer. What is important to point out is that the purpose of the tax is to change the consumer's choice. When Tobias Andersson or I choose between different refrigerators, the idea is that the tax should provide an incentive to choose a refrigerator containing a smaller proportion of hazardous chemicals than one with a higher proportion of dangerous chemicals. We know that chemicals in our home environment are harmful, not least for children. There we politicians have a responsibility to try to steer the elections towards less dangerous products. It will also be a kind of consumer information to people that the product can be better for your local environment. It is out of concern for our children and young people that we want the tax so that the proportion of dangerous substances in the home environment is reduced.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-322	Mr President, I would like to Although the Minister of Finance claims that the aim is to take care of children at risk of being exposed to these chemicals, she cannot give a single example of a product group, product or company that has changed its product series as a consequence of the tax. Nor can she show that consumption has actually been adjusted to more chemical-free products, which is no wonder because the tax is not designed in this way. It is designed based on weight, not on the volume or amount of chemicals. Of course, what Magdalena Andersson hopes will never be the case as long as an adjustment is not made. What I also find directly remarkable is that the Minister of Finance claims that she cannot give concrete examples as a consequence of the fact that the tax has been in place for only one and a half years. Then it is clearly irresponsible, Mr President, that although the tax cannot be evaluated, it wants to increase it. The fact that one may wish to raise a tax, and thus risk a deterioration in something that has not yet been evaluated, is, to me, completely meaningless. I fully understand whether Magdalena Andersson chooses not to listen to me on this issue. What I find stranger, however, is that the government also does not listen to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry, the Board of Directors, the Technology Companies, the Entrepreneurs, Almega, the Association of Small Enterprises, the Electronics industry, the Computer Games industry, the Telecom companies and all other referrals that have rejected the proposal. Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Minister for Finance again to give an example of a product, a product group or, for that matter, a company that changed its product composition according to the wishes of the government. If the Minister for Finance cannot do so, I think she must at least give examples or arguments for why we consumers should change our consumption. However, those arguments are not given in the form of the tax. That is what I want the Minister for Finance to understand.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-326	Mr President, I would like to Now it is the individual consumer's choice that we are looking for. It is when you stand and choose between the different mobile phones, refrigerators or televisions. That is what we are looking for with this treasure – the choice that you as an individual make. That is what we want to change so that anyone who chooses to buy a product will choose the one who has lower taxes and thus also less dangerous chemicals. That is the purpose. I look forward to the fact that, once the tax has existed a little longer, we will be able to evaluate the choices made by individuals and the extent to which the tax has steered sufficiently away from dangerous substances. Tobias Andersson believes that we should listen more to the business organisations that exist in Sweden. We do that a lot. But it is also important to listen to those who do not have strong interests behind them, such as children and young people and their environment. It's important to protect. When you meet these organisations, it is also important to bear in mind that they are, of course, working for their purposes and that we as politicians have a greater general purpose to care about, namely the local environment and the home environment for children and young people. For me, it's important to take that responsibility. The Swedish Democrats seem to have a different view. The interests of the business community are becoming increasingly important in the policy and argumentation of the Swedish democrats. This is a clear journey the Swedish democrats have made in recent years – they are moving more and more towards being representatives of the people in Sweden who have very high incomes and large capital.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-330	Mr President, I would like to Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to ensure that the citizens – in particular the real traders – have confidence that the authorities are working, without regard to their own interests, to implement the decisions taken democratically which are applicable to their respective activities. Let me first say that it is, of course, essential that citizens have a high level of confidence in the administrative authorities and their employees. In an international comparison, Sweden stands very well when it comes to the absence of corruption and irregularities. But that does not mean that there are no risks. The authorities must always be alert to circumstances that may call their impartiality into question. According to the form of government, public power is exercised under the laws. This legal base applies to all public activities. An employee in municipal or state activities must therefore comply with the relevant regulations. Furthermore, the so-called principle of objectivity must be respected. Everyone's equality before the law and objectivity and impartiality are the cornerstones of it. An employee must therefore not allow his or her own political opinions, interests, arbitrariness or the like to affect the way in which the work of the public administration is carried out. The new Administrative Act, which entered into force this summer, contains clear conflict rules for the management procedure. The rules help to ensure that the principle of objectivity is implemented in the public administration. An important part of the regulatory framework is also the prohibition of acts of trust-injury in the Public Employment Act. The right to appeal decisions to courts or other bodies and the possibility of making a complaint to the Parliamentary Ombudsman, the Parliamentary Ombudsman, or the Chancellor of Justice, JK, are procedural safeguards for a citizen who considers that the authorities have not observed impartiality and objectivity or have otherwise acted incorrectly. I can also mention the right to request public documents from the managing authorities and an open environment with free and reviewing media as important elements of this system. In this context, it should be recalled that views on how a civil servant has acted in an individual case may need to be weighed against the constitutional protection of human rights, such as freedom of expression and association. JO and JK report on their websites a comprehensive practice that can provide support and guidance in these balances. The government has recently come up with several measures to strengthen the work on a good administrative culture, characterised by trust in a legally secure and effective state administration. In the Final Report of the Value Foundation Delegation To ensure good government, the delegation proposed that all new employees in the state should receive introductory training, in which they should be given knowledge of the fundamental principles of law in force in the state. Against this background and following the announcement by the Parliament of a mandatory introductory training for government employees, the government gave an expanded mandate in early March to the Trust Delegation on this issue. Each managing authority has the ultimate responsibility for driving the work forward and taking measures to manage risks and vulnerabilities linked to maintaining a good administrative culture. An important part of this responsibility is to use the internal and external resources available for the purpose, such as Statskontoret's web-based tools for dilemma discussions. The government has great confidence in those who work in public administration and in the fact that public administration functions are carried out in an objective and correct manner. It will continue to be an urgent task for the government to support this work with various forms of intervention.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-337	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Trust from the authorities is needed if our rural businesses in the agricultural sector are to be successful. In order for the exercise of public authority to be perceived as good, it must be legally secure and competent. You should experience good treatment and good service. Many authorities believe that they have good authority, while many of those who are in contact with the authorities in their jobs feel that this is not the case – unfortunately, sometimes rather the opposite. We heard some frightening stories when earlier in April we had Forest Day here in Parliament. It shows that in some authorities there is an extremely long way to go before you can get the trust you want. Mr President, I would like to In its answer, the Government says: Let me first say that it is, of course, essential that citizens have a high level of confidence in the administrative authorities and their employees. In an international comparison, Sweden stands very well when it comes to the absence of corruption and irregularities. But that does not mean that there are no risks. The authorities must always be alert to circumstances that may call their impartiality into question. ..................................................... It is good that the Minister sees the problem. I very much hope that the Minister will also take the problem very seriously, because, although Sweden is doing well, we see that in many situations our rural entrepreneurs are facing a growing control apparatus, long processing times, regulatory difficulties and conflicting answers. Sometimes it is impossible to know what an individual entrepreneur should do to do the right thing. It is not certain that the authorities can even answer the question. Ignorance and uncertainty are one thing, but when you as a private individual or entrepreneur feel that officials act according to their own agenda and not according to the laws and regulations they should follow, the mistrust becomes great. This is a significant problem for many of us who are active in rural areas. The Water Framework Directive is interpreted in direct contrast to the stated meaning of the European Commission. This turns out to be due to officials who are simultaneously active in the Association of Elf Rescuers, who are eager to destroy dams. Lucia trains in schools are stopped without prior political discussion or decision. A number of formal party independent officials in a ministry write a letter calling into question the next government or government base. Employees in the social services of a municipality require that the elected chairman of the board be removed because of an inappropriate statement. The Forest Board forces forest owners to sue the state for the compensation they are entitled to. Arms licence applications are rejected with reference to non-existent rules on the design of the weapon. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency sets its own minimum standards for the number of wolves, which deviate from political decisions. At the same time, a nature guardian at the county administrative board is active as a forest activist and teaches how to stop fellings. The list can be made quite long. I understand that the Minister cannot go into individual cases. Nor is it my intention that we should discuss it today. My purpose in mentioning individual cases is to illustrate the breadth of the phenomenon of government activism and to discuss the phenomenon at an overall level. Mr President, I would like to If the authorities are to get the respect they want, they must actually dust off the old official ideal and live up to it. We should create the conditions for competent people with high integrity to work within the authorities. Citizens should be able to trust that the authorities do not run their own agendas. In his reply, the Minister says that the so-called principle of objectivity must also be respected. Everyone's equality before the law and objectivity and impartiality are the cornerstones of it. An employee must therefore not allow his or her own political opinions, interests, arbitrariness or the like to affect the way in which the work of the public administration is carried out. ..................................................... Unfortunately, Mr President, we see quite clearly that this is not always the case today. Does the Government believe that the government does enough, or needs more to be done?
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-355	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for your commitment to this issue! It is useful for Swedish government to discuss these issues in this House. If Sweden is to continue to be the successful country we have definitely been in the last century in terms of public administration, people's trust in public institutions and the resilience of democratic institutions, then we need to work actively on these issues. We must not be content to note that we have relatively small problems compared to other countries, but must constantly raise our ambitions and work to strengthen the resilience of public institutions to irregularities, corruption and the application of law that are contrary to the principles laid down in our constitution. The fact is, Mr President, that in the case of state employees we have very strong protection for the freedom of association, communication and expression. This protection goes much further than in other countries and has historical roots; it dates back to the 18th century, in some cases. I am convinced that the protection of freedom of communication, among other things, has meant a great deal to the effect that Swedish administration has been able to build up this resistance to irregularities. But, of course, these fundamental rights and freedoms do not mean that civil servants can go beyond the law or let their private opinion influence the direction of application of the law in violation of the law. Therefore, in our constitution, we also have clear positions on impartiality and objectivity in the application of law. There are a number of mechanisms in our legislation designed to protect these very principles. One can mention, among other things, the regulatory framework we have for ancillary activities and other provisions in, among other things, the Administrative Act and the Municipal Act. However, I am convinced that the government and the entire government also need to work proactively to maintain a good administrative culture. Against this background, we chose to continue the work of the Value Foundation delegation, which began during the previous term of office. As I also said in the interpellation response, we have moved on with the issue of compulsory basic training for civil servants. This is basically about defending, maintaining and, in some cases, even restoring the role of civil servant. This requires us to make a proper effort at introductory training courses and even further training on the state values, which are based on the principles laid down in our legislation and not least in our constitution. In parallel with this, the management of our agencies also need to work continuously to raise this kind of ethical issues in the business and get employees to participate in discussions on, among other things, balance of interests and trade-offs between different rights and obligations that a civil servant comes into contact with. I know that the authorities in which the managements raised these issues, worked actively with them and got the employees to participate in the discussions see that the good administrative culture is being effectively defended. So the answer to the question, Mr President, is: no, we need to do even more.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-362	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is gratifying that the Government wants to fight further and has high ambitions. The examples I have read show that this is really necessary. The Government referred to membership of an association. Freedom of association is very important – there I absolutely share the Council of State's opinion and have no other thought. Nevertheless, it is very important to stress that membership of an association must not be allowed to affect any exercise of authority so that the individual suffers harm. It is very important that we manage to keep watertight bulkheads in between. The Government also mentions the report of the Value Foundation Delegation, which includes the compulsory introduction training and the fact that the Government gave the Trust Delegation an expanded mandate on this issue at the beginning of March. I would like to ask the Government when this is expected to become a workshop. Giving an extended assignment is one thing, but it must become a workshop of it all. This is about introductory training. We also have the m who are old in the farm and have worked at the authorities for a long time. How are we going to reach them with these training efforts to get them on track as well as the official ideal we have been on? We cannot just target those who are new. We have, as I said, others who have worked for a long time, and there we see that there are problems with this. These are my questions to the Government.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-366	Mr President, I would like to Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson raises an important question: When should this be done? It shall be carried out during this term of office. That is also why we have commissioned the Trust Delegation to develop joint training for civil servants. The need is there, and I share Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson's view that this need is not only for the new employees in the state. We also need to work continuously towards existing employees in the Swedish state to raise issues relating to the balance between different interests and principles laid down in our constitution. The Swedish state is something other than private companies or political associations. The activities and actions of the Swedish state are based on a number of fundamental legal principles laid down in our constitution. We must safeguard the uniqueness of the state: that the state actually has an obligation to set aside private views when exercising power, based on impartiality and objectivity, based on the legislation adopted by this House. More therefore remains to be done in this area. However, we should remember that we are still one of the best countries in the world in terms of good governance. However, we cannot be content with this but must continue to work on these issues. This problem and this question touch on the question of corruption. It is also a violation of objectivity and impartiality when civil servants or civil servants decide in breach of legislation or are unduly affected. This is an issue that is important for the government, so we have put a lot of energy into developing the prevention of corruption and strengthening impartiality and objectivity in the exercise of authority. I am happy to receive more ideas on what we can do to safeguard this.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-371	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for further answers. I am pleased, as I said, that the Government really sees the seriousness of these issues and wants to continue to work. We have some announcements from the Riksdag, including about introductory training, which we have mentioned. There is also a notice on new rules on civil liability, which was discussed in KU 2017/ 18. As far as I am concerned, there have been no answers to that. I hope there will be answers soon, so we see that these are not just words but that there really will be a workshop on these issues. As I said in my introduction, this trader, not least in the countryside, is affected. There, many people feel that it is a very big problem that you cannot trust the authorities. So the Government has absolutely a job to do there, and I expect the Government to do so. In fact, on the basis of the debate we have had here, I am hopeful. I would like to thank the Government for its reply.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-374	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for this important debate! The issue of criminal liability for government employees is dealt with by my colleague Morgan Johansson and is outside my remit. Of course, this is also an important issue. We already have criminal law rules that affect this. I am convinced that the most important thing here is to work preventively. It is about actively working to maintain a culture in public administration. We are going some way with hard tools, criminal law rules and clear rules, but basically it is not this that builds culture, but it is the tradition that has been in force in Swedish administration for many decades that has created the high degree of trust that we have in our country. If we are to maintain this tradition, active action is required. Of course, our heads of government are important here. They have the ultimate responsibility for the work of each authority. Nevertheless, the government is responsible for the whole, at least for the authorities that are subject to the government. We have given priority to these issues during the last parliamentary term. We will continue to prioritise them during this term of office. As the honourable Member mentioned, the introduction training has now been decided during the month of March, but it will certainly require more efforts to safeguard objectivity and impartiality in the Swedish state. I look forward to further dialogue with Parliament on this issue.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-380	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Oscarsson has asked me how profitability increases for individual farmers as a result of the government's work on the food strategy. The Government shares the view that the profitability of agriculture is an important issue, and this attitude permeates our entire work on the food strategy adopted by the Riksdag in 2017. It means that a clear line is anchored in food policy until 2030, which is to promote a competitive and sustainable food chain where total production increases. The last government decided on an action plan for the food strategy with measures of about SEK 1 billion which runs until 2020. These include efforts to support the industry to coordinate to collaborate on research and innovation and support the development of food incubation in order for more commercially viable products to reach the market through, for example, new companies, licensing or the development of existing companies. As Magnus Oscarsson has probably noted, the Swedish Board of Agriculture's annual report Evaluation and follow-up of the food strategy, which has looked at the development of competitiveness during the period 2011-2016 based on the profitability of the companies. It notes that although value added has increased, competitiveness in the food chain has deteriorated, particularly in primary production and the food industry. This shows the importance of the food strategy decided by the Riksdag in 2017. As I see it, it is too early today to express an opinion on the exact way in which the food strategy has affected the profitability of individual farmers, in terms of long-term work with a view to 2030. Part of the continued efforts to increase production, competitiveness and profitability in the food chain is the promotion of increased food exports. On 7 February 2019, the Government decided on funds for Sweden's export and investment aid for a continued strengthened investment in Swedish food exports in 2019. My hope is that this initiative will give Swedish companies better opportunities to export and thereby deliver results through more jobs and increased growth throughout the food chain. For 2020 and beyond, a new Food Strategy Action Plan will be developed. The new Action Plan will be an important part of further efforts to strengthen the profitability of the food chain. Through the work on the strategy, we can strengthen Swedish food production, from soil and sea to table. A key element of implementation is that policies, authorities, academia and industry hook arms and jointly take on the opportunities available to reach the targets set in the medium-term strategy. I would like to develop this cooperation during the term of office. I see that the Swedish food chain has great potential that is important to exploit. For this to happen, we must ensure that there are conditions for companies in the food chain to continue to develop. The competitive situation compared to other countries, the challenges of innovation and knowledge development and further regulatory simplification are important issues on which I see every reason to continue working. As I have said before, the question of the competitiveness of agriculture is a crucial aspect of the food strategy, which in turn is an essential part of the peasant package. Finally, my ambition during this term of office is to carry on the work undertaken by my predecessor and to take important steps towards the overall objectives of the food strategy – a competitive food chain where total food production in Sweden is increasing.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-389	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Rural Affairs, for your answer. A little over a month ago, me and the Christian Democrats had the day of milk here in Parliament. The day of milk came because dairy farmers contacted me and told me that the profitability of milk production was very poor. This year it was the fifth time. We had about 100 participants from all over the country. Mycket has happened since the first day of milk. There have been both ups and downs in milk prices, but unfortunately the main problem remains that profitability is far too bad. We have a situation in Europe where all countries but one produce more milk, namely Sweden. The number of dairy farms here has decreased. It is now down to 3,351. It's a couple of months old numbers, so it's probably smaller now, unfortunately. The degree of self-sufficiency in milk is down to 72%. I must say that I am deeply concerned about developments. What the dairy farmers say when they come to Parliament and when you visit them is always the same: we must compete on the same terms as the other farmers in the EU. I myself was involved in negotiating the food strategy. It felt, I thought, like a new chapter that was written. It was positive to talk about developing agriculture rather than phasing out. Only this is amazing, I think. We are talking about strengthening agriculture, reducing the regulatory burden and increasing profitability and Sweden's self-sufficiency in food. But now it's been two years. It's disturbingly quiet from the government, I have to say. The strategy that was so important and that we talked about so much is not mentioned with a syllable in the government declaration. My question to the Minister for Rural Development is: What does the Minister intend to do? The peasants say to me: Magnus, it is as usual just a lot of words! But what is the strategy, so that it does not just feel like empty words, Madam Minister?
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-396	Madam President, I would like It always becomes a challenge when you have had a long break and will try to remember the questions that were asked before the break. But I did make some notes, so I'll give it a try. Then Oscarsson can fill in if I have forgotten or missed something. The honourable Member raised the profitability of dairy farmers. I also noted that he raised his own initiative: the day of milk. I really just want to start by saying that I think it is a great initiative. I can also mention that there is a day of the forest where I myself participated. This type of initiative, which also takes responsibility within the framework of Parliament for having a discussion and a dialogue with both the policy and the relevant stakeholders, is something that I think is very positive. I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to this. With regard to milk and the development that has been in this area, which was what I noted that the honourable Member specifically lifted up to exemplify in his speech, I can see that it is correct that Sweden has a number of different measures aimed at good husbandry and improved quality. These include mandatory grazing requirements and a higher level of animal welfare than many other countries have. However, my opinion is that it is something that is good, because it increases the quality. It also provides premium products that we would not otherwise have. This is something we should be proud of, and I perceive that there is a great political mandate for this in this House. I hear few people who think that we should shake it or get worse at animal welfare than we are today. However, it is of course important that we ensure that Swedish farmers can receive payment for the added value that it creates that they have this type of production, which is better than that of other countries. Then we will come to the food strategy unscrupulously and naturally. One of its aims is precisely to take a concerted approach and have a strategy for the whole industry. These include production, increased value added of products, research and innovation and increased efficiency of production. It is not least a question of linking exports to this more clearly than before, so that the world also becomes a market for these products. It is then important that we manage to market what we are already known for, because Sweden has a very high reputation when it comes to these issues. Then we will help to ensure quality and market this both in Sweden and abroad in a way that also means that you get paid for this. I also note that Mr Arla has highlighted this as a good example. It wants to raise the added value that exists. Last year, 2018, they paid out a specific compensation to farmers for what was called summer milk – in other words, it was about the cows grazing out in the summer – precisely in order to lift up that this is a premium product that costs something but that actually also has higher quality. With regard to the food strategy, I note that I do not agree with the honourable Member's description, namely that nothing has happened, that nothing is happening and that interest is low. My picture is that there is a great appreciation of the work that has been done and that it is important that we keep it alive as we move into the next phase, which is action plan number two.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-402	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Sweden's food self-sufficiency is, unfortunately, steadily declining and is now below 50%. We have a trade deficit of over 50 billion. In fact, we here in Stockholm would not be able to do this for more than two days. Then the food is over and the shelves empty. In Sweden otherwise it is perhaps about seven to twelve days. This is actually appalling. And we have said in the food strategy that this is part of the increase. I would like to point out that in neighbouring Finland, for example, it has been said that food self-sufficiency should be achieved for at least six months and up to one year. So there is a completely different policy there as to what to overcome in the event of a crisis or an attack. I think this is a very worrying situation. And in that situation, the government chooses to work out a proposal that all cows should be in disrepair. I can say that it is certainly not a good proposal to force farmers to rebuild their stables. Today the cows are tied up in as much as 45 per cent of all Swedish dairy herds. Many of these dairy entrepreneurs will not rebuild their stables, but will end entirely with milk production. The Minister referred earlier to the importance of animal welfare. Everyone wants to agree that it is important that we have good animal welfare. But this issue is not about it, it is about something else. Then my question to the Minister is: how does the government intend to act on the issue of tied-up cows?
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-406	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Magnus Oscarsson, for the question! Now we're getting very specific. One can talk about overall strategies, about regulatory simplification and about the work that needs to be done within the framework of EU work. We are currently negotiating a new CAP and so on. There are, of course, various forms of national decision-making. But I start at the end in which Magnus Oscarsson ended, namely the question of what happens with the requirement that cows should be loose all year round. I note that this is a proposal that was made in the animal welfare bill in March 2018. The purpose of this is that it should be the best for the animal's natural behavior. It is also considered to be more rational than tied-up systems and to provide lower investment costs per livestock unit for larger herds. Having said that, however, I can say that it is not the case that we have landed in moving forward with the proposal. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Board of Agriculture to investigate the consequences of introducing such a requirement. That assignment shall be reported no later than 1 July 2019. Until I have the basis on the consequences of this proposal, it does not make much sense, I think, to stand and guess what it could mean or contain. Rather, I think that this can be discussed in a new interpellation debate or in a different form when there are facts on the table. The spirit of the proposal is good. The spirit is about increased animal welfare. But, of course, we need to have all the consequences on the table – it is also about the consequences for the industry – before we put our feet down and make a decision on the matter.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-410	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would also like to thank you for still having a rather humble attitude. It's important. I believe that this proposal will have a negative impact on milk production, as today there are many cows tied up during the winter. I also believe that we will lose even more of our self-sufficiency. 45 percent is a lot. That would be negative. I appeal to the Minister to take this into account later on. Then we'll have to ask the minister more questions. In the M-KD budget, we have reduced the tax on fuel, the diesel tax. All this we have done to try to strengthen competitiveness. We think it's important to listen. The Minister is talking about 2030. It kind of feels like we've got plenty of time. But I mean we don't have that time. This is the moment I wish the Minister would put his foot down. It is now that I wish the Minister to say that there are two three four five proposals on what can be done to remedy and which will make a difference to the farmer at farm level. It's important. I would very much like the Minister to make proposals so that there is a real difference. What I hear when I listen to the farmers is: Magnus, things have to happen. I am convinced that the Minister also hears such appeals. Thank you for a good debate.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-416	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson highlights several important points. I think there is a fairly large consensus on both the importance and value of our success in working long-term for increased competitiveness in Swedish agriculture and the entire food chain. My starting point is that it will work in everything from primary production to having an export where we reach out to new markets. This is in itself a large part of the answer to how we can get an increased degree of self-sufficiency. If Swedish consumers are not to pay an excess price for overcapacity in the Swedish food chain, we must ensure that products are disposed of in peacetime or non-crisis time, if that link is made. I think we have a good chance of getting much better at it. The value of Swedish food exports has increased in the last 15 years. It's important. But that is not enough, because at the same time we are losing export shares. We therefore need to take a collective responsibility to strengthen Swedish food exports in new markets. We have identified a number of important markets. I also think it is important to work with things that exist at home. The regulatory issue is one that clearly describes an area where farmers want to see proposals and differences at farm level. I think we need to work on digitization. But we also need to work on the rules we have. Here is an assignment that the Swedish Agency for Growth coordinates and where both the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Agriculture Agency, for example, are included. They will develop and explain how these elements can be made more efficient, more cost-effective and simpler. I think it's really important.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-421	I would like to remind you that you always speak through the President and do not use you, regardless of the debate in which you are taking part.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-422	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I and the government will follow the Riksdag's decision regarding predators, whether I believe that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's decision of 300 wolves is consistent with the Riksdag's decision where the lower limit is 170 individuals and whether I intend to act to ensure that the number of individuals of wolf should not increase in the counties where predatory pressure is greatest. Lars Beckman has also asked whether I intend to take steps to ensure that the game management delegations have a strong mandate in which local and regional decisions can be taken into account. He has asked whether there is a consensus in the government about managing the wolf by hunting and how it is expressed in the government's actions. Lars Beckman has also asked what measures I intend to take to ensure that the responsible authorities comply with Parliament's decisions and what measures I intend to take in the service to create a broad popular anchor for Swedish predatory policy in the regions affected by the issue – where there is a large proportion of wolves. John Widegren has asked me what measures I am taking to ensure that the relevant authorities live up to the policy of wolves decided by Parliament. He has asked whether there is a consensus in the government about managing the wolf by hunting and how it is expressed, and whether I believe there is cause for concern about the predators if the countryside does not feel heard in the predatory problem. The bill adopted by the Riksdag 2012/ 13:191 states that Sweden should achieve and maintain a favourable conservation status for the predators, while keeping domestic animals is not significantly impeded and socio-economic considerations should be taken into account. The bill proposes that the reference value for favourable conservation status in the Swedish population should be 170 – 270 individuals. In the bill, the Government stated that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency would, after Parliament's treatment, assess where the reference value for wolf would be within the range proposed by the Government and report the value to the European Commission under the Species and Habitats Directive. Within this limit, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency reported that the reference value for the wolf population in Sweden should be at least 270 wolves. The reference value for favourable conservation status may then not be less than the reference value. However, the population has had a higher inbreeding rate than is considered acceptable, and the vulnerability analysis underlying the reference value was criticised for not taking into account genetic aspects. In 2015, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency (the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency) commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to update the analysis on the basis of a broad scientific basis and, on the basis of the new analysis, to investigate what is required for the population to be considered as having favourable conservation status. Based on the analysis, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has assessed that at least 300 wolves are needed and that at least one immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia reproduces with a Scandinavian wolf every five years in order for the population to have favourable conservation status. The Government cannot comment on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's scientific assessments on individual issues. The proposal also shows that once a predatory management area has reached the minimum level for a species, the delegation of licence hunting decisions should be possible to all county boards that are part of the management area without limitation. The bill also states that the wolf's presence in reindeer husbandry areas and in counties with pastures, intensive sheep husbandry or archipelagos should mainly be limited to areas where it does the least damage. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has the overall national responsibility for implementing the decided predatory policy. The authority has delegated the right to decide on the hunting of wolves to the county administrative boards where wolves occur. It is important that these decisions are taken regionally, where you have knowledge of your local circumstances. Protection hunting is an important part of predator management. Local influence, such as the game management delegations, is needed for anchoring and credibility in the administration. There is the possibility of consultation and effective influence in the processes of the authorities. The government values the role of delegations, and local influence has recently been strengthened by increasing delegations by two representatives of different local interests. The fact that the members must be registered in the county or, in the case of reindeer farmers, be members of a Sami village should also be seen as an expression of local and regional anchoring. During my time as Minister of Rural Affairs, the government has taken action. For example, the spring amending budget provides funds for various measures of a valuable nature. The initiative means that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and other central authorities, as well as the county administrative boards, can continue their planned work with, among other things, predator inventories. People are supposed to be able to live and run industries where the predators are. A viable and active rural area is needed for sustainable development and growth throughout the country.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-433	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I wrote this interpellation on account of the fact that the County Administrative Board, the government's authority, has proposed that the number of rejuvenations of wolf in our county should increase. This goes against Parliament's decisions on at least three points. The decision taken by the Riksdag clearly stated that socio-economic consideration should be given to the prevalence of predators, and that the wolf should be well spread throughout the country and, as the Government said, that the number of wolves should be 170 to 270 individuals. It is also important that there is a good popular anchor for Swedish predatory policy. When I travel in my home county, Gävleborg, I do not feel that there is such a popular anchoring, and that is deeply unfortunate. Madam President, I would like I think it's important that we don't make a difference between children and children. We could see when a wolf came to Stockholm that the County Administrative Board correctly took a quick decision on the hunting of the wolf. Socio-economic reasons were then cited. Madam President, I would like In an article in Gefle Dagblad of March 21, you can read about a man from Limbo: Our three - year - old daughter and our seven - year - old son play in the courtyard. This time they weren't out on the grounds. When the wolf did not get any of the deer, it turned and cut across the terrace to another house when it tried to get hold of a fourth deer, he says. According to him, the wolf has been in the family courtyard up to four times. – Now we dare not have the kids out on our own plot. We'll almost have to stand guard when they're out. Once it's this way, there's something wrong with our predatory policy. We have wolves in Sweden and will probably always have wolves, but my opinion is that you have to do something about wolves that are this rude. ..................................................... The person in question applied for protection, but the County Administrative Board rejected it. The article says that they base their assessment on guidelines that say that protection hunting should be considered only when one or more wolves on several occasions and for a longer period stay within 30 meters of people. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Is there reason for anyone to be worried about wolf? That might be an interesting question. Yes, if we read in other media we can see that in a province between Afghanistan and China a mother and daughter were killed by a wolf. Some year earlier, a three - year - old was injured and died during a wolf attack. Madam President, I would like I have great respect for those who live in my county and in other counties and who find wolf unpleasant and dangerous. Just as the Riksdag decided, it is therefore important to take socio-economic considerations into account and that the wolf must not increase in the counties where the spread is greatest. It is only to be noted that there are plenty of wolves in Gävleborg. Now, however, the County Administrative Board has said that the number of rejuvenations will increase even more. People are upset and worried. Of course, it may not apply to those who live in central Gävle but to those who are affected by the wolf and have it on their patio and who are afraid to let their children out on the farm for fear of their lives. When this happens, Madam President, it is clear that predatory policy is not working. Changes are needed, and the least you can ask is for the Government and the Government to ensure that Parliament's decisions are complied with.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-445	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The Government read out the following: The bill adopted by the Swedish Parliament A sustainable predatory policy states that Sweden shall achieve and maintain a favourable conservation status for the predator strains while keeping domestic animal husbandry not significantly impeded and socio-economic considerations shall be taken into account. Have we succeeded in this, Madam President? No, we don't. Today we see that around the country there is growing concern about predators and what they do and what they build up in people living with them. We see that the food strategy, which is an extremely important document for us in the Swedish Parliament, will suffer a great deal from the predatory policy that is now under way. For example, in Central Sweden there is a larger sheep farm that is simply thinking of closing its production due to repeated wolf attacks and not being granted protection hunting. What is the value of food production? The point is not to exterminate the wolf, and no one has said that. Nor have we made such a decision. But we must have a functioning predatory policy, something that people living with wolves out in Sweden's countryside can accept. One way to deal with the wolf tribe is by hunting. It's a way of managing the wolf tribe. Licensing or protective hunting is what is required. We have taken steps to deal with the resulting situation with the predators, and we will deal with the wolf by, for example, hunting. But in the administration we have had to achieve Parliament's goal of not having too dense tribes locally, we have used hunting as a method, and then we have not really succeeded in anything. Not a single county has reduced its concentration as a result of this active management. So we have not managed to reduce the wolf population where it is most powerful. One of the questions in my interpellation is that there is a consensus in the government about managing the wolf by hunting, and how is that expressed? We note that in one of the government parties there is a Member of Parliament who is a spokesperson on biodiversity issues. This is about Rebecka Le Moine from the Green Party, which is one of the government parties. In the spring – once in the debate on nature conservation and biodiversity and another time in the debate on hunting and game conservation – she has said the following: The existence of a species must not be determined by a hobby or an economic special interest. I want to see predator strains that are long-term viable, and therefore I cannot accept the licensing of wolves, lynx and wolverine. ..................................................... This is very serious, especially if you sit in the government and have to comply with Parliament's decisions. I therefore put my last two questions to the Government once again: is there a consensus in the government about managing the wolf by hunting, and how is that expressed? Does the Government consider that there are reasons for concern about predators if the countryside does not feel heard in the predator problem?
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-452	Madam President, I would like As a warming man, you can't stay away from a wolf debate. There are a lot of opinions, a lot of wills and a lot of research on wolf. But research and science are two very different things. What science says, which is the science that Skandulv has developed and is the science we have, is that we in Scandinavia would be able to get along with at the bottom of 40 wolves. Then we have an MVP, that is, the least viable population. They put in a disaster scenario every ten years in their research and raised with the least viable population to 100 wolves – in Scandinavia. We have a decision on a floor of 170 – 270 wolves – in Sweden. After that, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has gone further, so now we have over 300 – in Sweden – despite the fact that we have research and science that says we could make it to 100. We in Sweden are often Bror Good and want to be the best in the class when we are going to comply with international conventions. But the Berne Convention states that predators crossing a land border should not be managed as, in our case, a Swedish wolf tribe and a Norwegian wolf tribe, but should be managed as a tribe. At home in Värmland and in my border regions we have some strange wolves, Madam President, because there we have half wolves – at least according to the statistics. But we all know half wolves don't exist. This shows how ridiculous it is when we do not manage the predator tribes as a common Scandinavian tribe in the way that the Berne Convention states. I want to continue on the track that my friends picked up before me. Why does a law apply when a wolf approaches Stockholm and a completely different law when wolves perform unobtrusively at home in Värmland, in Gävleborg or wherever we are? People are experiencing this today. When that is the case, we do not get the popular support or the local acceptance, which both Lars Beckman and John Widegren have talked about. There we must do something to get a predator management worthy of the name. Therefore, my questions to the Minister for Rural Development are: does the government intend to comply with the Berne Convention, so that we manage the predator tribes as common when they cross the land border, as the wolf tribe here does? It is also the case that we feel that we have a law that applies when the wolf approaches Stockholm and another that applies when the wolf performs unscrupulously out in the rest of the country. We can't have that. What do the government and the minister intend to do to get a predator management worthy of the name, where everyone in Sweden is treated equally regardless of where we live?
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-460	Madam President, I would like I realise that answering this many questions from three interpellers in four minutes is a challenge. I'll have to answer a little horizontally to the questions. I can see that I share the view of all the interpelliers that we need to have greater legitimacy and popular support on these issues. It is not sustainable in the long run with the polarisation that exists today. I also note that I do not agree with a number of the descriptions of the developments that have taken place. It is suggested that the government does not take this issue seriously. But we are making a number of different efforts. I note, for example, that during the last term of office we had a licence hunt for 98 wolves, compared with 22 wolves during the previous term of office, which was the last term of the alliance government. Now it is not either the merit or the merit of one government or the other that it was one way or the other. I assume that both governments have complied with the decision taken by the Swedish Parliament, which included a number of principles and guiding recommendations: we shall have a favourable conservation status. This is supposed to rest on a scientific basis. Account shall be taken of domesticity, traders and socio-economic factors. It is easy to think a lot about the issue from a Swedish context, and I have great respect and understanding that those who live in wolf-rich regions in particular do so. At the same time, we are not free to approach this issue entirely nationally. I think the decision that has been made is a good one. I note that, as an EU country, we are complying with the EU directives on the Species and Habitats Directive, where the wolf is strictly protected. It is explicitly stated that Member States cannot change the status of the wolf nationally. I can also note with some concern that in 2018 the European Commission launched a revision of what is called the guidance document, to which I believe it was indirectly referred in one of the comments here, although it was not expressed in that way. It is a practical guide for the national application of the Species and Habitats Directive. If this revision were to go through in the form proposed by the European Commission, it would have major consequences, not least for Sweden. They want to go much further and suggest that the wolf should have regional favourable conservation status, which would be extremely problematic for a country like Sweden. We are working very actively on this issue, including within the framework of the European Union. We are trying to find the like-mind countries that are there. We are following the Finnish case very closely and with some concern, which is now a matter of review. It is based on what is being asked for in the debate. Exemptions and exemptions have been given for people's fears and some other things, such as elk hunting and cultural and social considerations. There's an investigation case on it right now. The Advocate General, as I think it is said in this context, will come up with his proposal to the Court of Justice on 8 May, I think, so it is quite close. However, at present we do not know when the verdict will come. In addition, during the last parliamentary term, the government took a number of measures to increase the legitimacy and efficiency of its administration. I will come back to that in my next speech in four minutes.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-467	Madam President, I would like When you listen to the Government, it can almost sound like the government has no power to decide in Sweden. Of course, that is not the case, thank God. It is perhaps even one of the government's most important tasks to ensure that Parliament's decisions are complied with. In this case, the Riksdag's decision is that there should be 170 to 270 individuals. For an inscrutable reason, one always talks about the highest value, which the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has raised. But it's just as right to say 170. One of my questions in the interpellation was: Unfortunately, my interpretation of the Government's answer is no. We also see this in practical policy. I think my colleague John Widegren is onto something. The government must make decisions collectively and jointly. One of the governing parties is a distinct urban party that has its core voters in the innermost circles of the city of Stockholm, where there are of course no predators and where it can even be a bit picturesque to talk about wolf. Then you have a perspective on the question. But when you live in Lingbo or Järbo or run a sheep farm outside Ljusdal you have a completely different perspective. One can only see it as a major failure when the same legislation is interpreted so differently by different county boards. I think it was good to shoot the wolves quickly in Stockholm. I think it was good to refer to socio-economic considerations. But I find it very difficult to understand that children would be less worth in Lingbo. I find it very difficult to understand that in Sweden in 2019 they explicitly say this to Gefle Dagblad:中 Now we dare not have the kids out on our own plot. We'll almost have to stand guard when they're out. That is not how it should be, Madam President. One can only imagine the respect for and confidence in the authorities in the densely populated regions. In fact, citizens may have read the predator bill, which states that predator pressure should be reduced where it is greatest. They may even have read it and believed it. I believe that it is a gross provocation to the Riksdag's decision that the County Administrative Board of Gävleborg should now increase the population of wolf, not reduce it, as many who live in the vargy districts wish. It is obviously very difficult for the government to get its authorities to follow Parliament's decisions. One of my questions in the interpellation was: is there a consensus in the government about managing the wolf by hunting, and if so, how is this reflected in the government's actions? This is, of course, the key issue. Is there a consensus in the government about managing the wolf by hunting, and if so, how is this reflected in the government's actions? So I am not referring to predator inventory, Madam President, but to exactly what I am asking.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-472	Madam President, I would like I note that I probably didn't really get much more answers to my questions, so I might end with them again. What is included in the answer is, among other things, the game management delegations. The government claims to have developed the game management delegations, while I believe that they have done exactly the opposite. In fact, there has been an interest that already existed in another mandate. Perhaps there are two interests already in existence that have been given additional mandates. However, important interests such as hunting, forests and landowners are still on only one mandate in the game management delegations. The reason for giving additional mandates to some of the interests of the game management delegation was that it meant that political interests showed too much interest and approval for hunting. Perhaps there is a reason why politicians interested in hunting end up in a game management delegation. It's just a thought. I also heard that the Government is worried just like I am about polarization. We see that there is polarization. There can be great concern about that. What will happen to our predators if people finally become so negative about the predatory management that exists today or predatory policy that they take the law into their own hands? Illegal hunting is absolutely never something anyone can stand behind and think is okay. But you can understand people who are on the verge of despair. Maybe it's the last tool they'll use. I would like to re-engage the food strategy in this. Many times it's about owners of animals. Lars Beckman here talks about children and families with children. At this point, I'm thinking about animal owners. These are people who, perhaps for generations with their sheep herd, have built up fine breeding values. They've worked for generations. Then they come out one morning, and that's it. The breeding work is wasted. The emotional value and economic value of the individual company and Swedish food production may be wasted overnight because we may have too dense predator populations in the area. Predatory food shall be the wild animals. If we don't have enough wild animals in the area, the predators are on the domestic animals. That's what it leads to. Today we have in Central Sweden where we often find it difficult to achieve profitability in the green industries. For dense strains of predators will contribute exactly in the wrong direction in it. We've been talking about wolves for a long time now. I wonder what it has cost the Swedish carnivores administration. What has the wolf administration cost Sweden and the Swedish taxpayer? That's interesting. I have no demand whatsoever for the Government to be able to answer that. But that's something you can think about. I noted that I did not receive an answer as to whether there is a consensus in the government about managing the wolf by hunting. I would like an answer to that. Then I would like to see the Government problematize a little more about the concerns of the indigenous predators if people do not feel heard in predatory policy.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-479	Madam President, I would like I, too, note that I did not receive an answer to my questions to the Government regarding the Berne Convention and why we have a law near Stockholm and another law in the rest of Sweden and what the Government intends to do to get to it, as John Widegren also mentioned. I know that there have been invitations from the Norwegian governments precisely in relation to the Berne Convention and predatory management that the Swedish Government has not responded to. The Norwegian Government has read the Berne Convention and realised what it says. The Swedish Government has not cared about this. I ask the question once again. Does the government intend to comply with the Berne Convention that we should manage a common predator's strain precisely as a common predator's strain and thus a Scandinavian predator's strain? The Minister was in on this with the EU and that the EU is involved and unfortunately has far too much to say about. The Species and Habitats Directive certainly needs to be updated. If we are to reclassify a species that, in accordance with the Species and Habitats Directive, requires careful protection, unanimity in the Council of Ministers is needed to make such a change. It's never been done. I would like to ask the Government whether the Government intends to work to update the Species and Habitats Directive so that we get a directive that works for those of us who live in predatory areas. There we must do something to gain local acceptance for the wolf tribe. As it is now, Värmland has 40 pr ocent of Sweden's wolf trunk on 4 per cent of Sweden's surface. It's a burden too big to carry. That's where we need help.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-483	Madam President, I would like I try to pick up where I last stopped, given that the questions are many and partly wide and the minutes are few. I shall begin by trying to answer a question in concrete terms. That's if there's a consensus in the government that you should manage wild game with hunting. It does. It does not show that there were 98 wolves in the last term of office, which is more than in the previous term of office. This certainly does not mean that there are no individual Members in all parties who have different entrances to this. It is a question that very much is a difference, just as someone put it, given whether you live where there is a lot of wolf or if you don't. I believe that it reflects in all our parties both where the interest is and possibly how it is expressed. I'll tell you a little bit about what you've done. I note that, with a view to more efficient and better management, an urgent requirement has been introduced during the previous term of office, for example, when it comes to appeals against decisions on licence hunting or, above all, protection hunting. It'll be quick. People should not have to wait so long to be told that the hunting season is over. Wildlife conservation missions have been expanded. The aim is that it should be local anchoring. For example, a Member must be registered in the region to which it belongs. It has tightened up the legal framework and, above all, tried to professionalise how to deal with existing cases. Nowadays, for example, the Administrative Court of Luleå is a special court in these cases. It ensures that you get a more legal test. Previously, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was the last instance. It's no longer a fact. Now you can appeal to the Administrative Court of Appeal in Sundsvall and all the way to the Supreme Administrative Court if it allows examination of a case. It does so if it considers it important for case law. There are different ways of trying to ensure that there is a legally secure process and effective management. Then I can see that an important part that is being looked at right now is that you have a good inventory. It is important to find a consensus and a greater legitimacy than there is today about how many wolves there are, how to count them. It is about the basis for whether it is granted a licence hunt or not in an area. What you are looking at as a methodology and that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is now working on is that you should try to have a direct calculation that is safer and more efficient and that has higher legitimacy, credibility and consistency. In other words, this means using DNA collection as a basis instead of using calculation using conversion rates, which creates a lot of confusion in the debate. This applies not least because you get different figures depending on which part of the process you collect the figures. I think it's important to land in. Having said that, I believe that one of the most important things is that we continue to work on this issue within the framework of our European cooperation. It is about ensuring that there are no new interpretations of references to this and that we find the like-mind countries that exist in this area to ensure that we have the full national self-determination in Sweden as we do today.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-492	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the debate. Let us note that action always beats fine words. Reality always beats rhetoric. So, just as I told the Government, in March they applied for protection hunting on wolves because they were terrified of a three-year-old and a seven-year-old child. The County Administrative Board of Gävleborg rejected the application and wrote that the County Administrative Board respected the perceived concern, but it was not estimated that there is a real risk – the perceived concern, Madam President! I note that our authorities take on the perceived concerns in a wide variety of ways depending on whether they live in Stockholm or one of its suburbs or whether they live in Lingbo, which is a suburb of Ockelbo. Madam President, I would like It is clear that predatory policy is not working. It is clear that the government is not following Parliament's decision, and I regret that. Just as the speaker's seat was said in the past, it can have consequences for confidence in state power, for confidence in us politicians and for confidence in the policy of predators. This, in turn, may lead people in desperation to take measures that they would not have taken if the government had handled this better. I explained that the concern is justified. People have been killed by wolves. So there is a legitimate concern. I regret that the government is not taking this issue more seriously, and I regret that the government is not taking concrete measures that produce results and effects in the most predatory parts of Sweden.
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-497	Madam President, I would like I got some answers to my questions, and I'm happy about that. However, I still have to problematise a little that a spokesperson on these issues from the Green Party says that hunting for predators cannot be accepted. I think it is a problem, and I think that the Government thinks it is a problem when one's business partner in government is speaking in that way. As far as the Species and Habitats Directive is concerned, just as Kjell-Kjell-Arne said here, it needs to be a complete consensus in order to make these deteriorations possible. We have an announcement in Parliament that we will work hard for a change to the Species and Habitats Directive, and I hope that the government will soon get to grips with this work. The outgoing Minister for Rural Development Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht was very pleased after the last term of office that he had got his predatory policy in order. My opinion is that it is exactly the opposite; we have not got the predatory policy right. Dissatisfaction is growing in the country. It is now time, Madam President, for the Social Democrats and the Government to land, to come to their senses and to change the regulatory letters to the relevant authorities. Live up to the predatory policy decided by Parliament!
i-b6eb6267e2f55a86-501	Madam President, I would like When you listen to the debate, questions and speeches in this interpellation round, you can note that the Moderates in this context choose and choose a little bit in the parliamentary decision that has been made. I believe that the government is following the decision, that the previous government followed it and that the latest alliance government also followed it. But these are difficult issues that involve difficult balances all the way, and I think they will always do so. I will always strive for a calm debate that is moving forward in order to solve the problems that exist as far as possible. Perhaps the most important issue is to build trust and legitimacy. We all have a responsibility to contribute to this; this applies to everyone who is in the Swedish Parliament. I got a point of view that the government is doing nothing. I would argue that we do. I used my last round of debates to explain both what has been done in the last parliamentary term and what is going on at the moment. I can mention that we will now have a meeting with the representatives of the RFO, as the regional administrative areas are called. There are three: the north, the middle and the south. There has been a letter from the responsible governors, who want to discuss uncertainties about decisions that exist. These are difficulties in meeting the objectives of increased dissemination. We have not discussed this much now, and I think it is an important issue and perhaps one of the most difficult. I think we agree that it should be done, but I have heard few suggestions as to how it should be done. I imagine that this was not the last debate we will have on this issue, but thank you for it!
