i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-5	Madam President, I would like The reason why I am the first in this debate on the Commission's communication on the internal market in a changing world is, as is well known, that the Swedish Democrats were the only ones to submit a reservation on the matter – a reservation which was in no way inspired by protectionism or ignorance regarding the benefits of the internal market for Swedish companies and the Swedish economy, although this is likely to be indicated by others in this pulpit. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats advocate free and open trade. On the other hand, as is well known, we are critical of large parts of the supranational state that the EU has come to develop into, but it is a criticism that has never been based on free trade or the purpose of the internal market. On the contrary, we stand behind the Union's exclusive right to establish free trade agreements, as it is both a precondition for the existence of the customs union and a true advantage that we can sit at the negotiating table with a common economy and market. We also see the value of the synergies created by the internal market and appreciate how it makes it easier for Swedish companies to operate in the rest of the Union. Madam President, I would like I am convinced that what I have just said is something that a majority in this House can endorse. On the other hand, what we probably cannot reach a consensus on is the future of, and the extent of, the internal market and, frankly, the future of the EU as a whole and therefore of Sweden as well. We have different visions of future cooperation, Madam President, and the elections in May will stand between those who want to give away even more of the power over Sweden from its citizens to bureaucrats in Brussels and those who defend Swedish self-determination and believe that the decision-making power should be close to the people. It will be between those who put their own ideological desires for a global world without borders before the security of our citizens and those of us who truly see and understand the widespread insecurity and misery that is the inevitable result of weak external borders and the absence of internal border controls. It will be between those who despise and wish to erase cultural and historical differences between the countries of Europe and those of us who value their own culture and differences. Madam President, I would like There will be both reason and opportunity to return to this in general. Our very separate images of what best benefits our country's citizens and their interests will be reminded time and again in the upcoming election movement. It will not escape anyone that it is precisely Sweden and our interests that the Swedish Democrats want to safeguard in the elections. Having said that, Madam President, there are hardly the greatest contradictions in the run-up to the single market elections. I am pleased, for example, that the committee stresses the importance of the principle of subsidiarity, national self-determination over company taxation and that the social partners should be responsible for regulating conditions in the labour market. Despite these positive elements, however, the Swedish Democrats believe that the rest of the committee is taking too lightly the increasingly supranational tendencies that the Commission wishes to incorporate under the flag of the single market. Madam President, I would like I find it worrying that the Committee's position does not in black and white condemn the federalist ideas of banking union, capital market union, etc. contained in the Commission communication. We believe that the committee's position should not open up at all to misunderstandings due to lack of clarity, at least on issues relating to the potential continuation of the movement of power. But what do I know, Madam President? Maybe it's not a misunderstanding. After all, the Swedish Government has set up an investigation into Swedish participation in the Banking Union. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that the Alliance does not want to be overly clear in its so-called criticism of the social pillar, since it has repeatedly allowed elements of it to pass through the committee unnoticed. Perhaps it is no more difficult than that some parties only wish to appease the voters by resisting in the media the constant shift of power towards Brussels or the forthcoming increases in the Swedish membership fee. Unfortunately, Madam President, most of the evidence suggests this. Of course, there may be differences of opinion about our nation's being or not being, but it would be desirable then at least to be as honest as the Liberals in being ready to sacrifice our self-determination on the altar of the European Federation. We Swedish democrats can, however, look the voters in the eye and really say that we are always doing our utmost to combat the enlargement of the EU's power, greatly lower the Swedish membership fee and bring power back to the people. It is immaterial what this issue is about; in our view, we must be able to support what the Union is doing well while criticising what it is doing badly or should not do at all. So also in this case concerning the internal market, and hence our reservation.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-19	Madam President, I would like This debate on the priorities of the European Commission in the work on the EU's internal market may seem completely unnecessary because the Committee on Economic Affairs' proposal is that it should only be added to the documents – or it is important in any case. Since 2008, the objective of Swedish trade policy has been the highest possible degree of free trade, an effective internal market and an open trade policy in the EU. The vast majority of parties in the Swedish Parliament have been in complete agreement on this. Sweden's membership of the EU and the development of the internal market have played a major role both for Swedish consumers, for Swedish companies and, above all, for our economic growth. As workers and students, we can work and study wherever we want within the EU. Together, the EU countries are a strong and attractive partner in negotiating free trade agreements, and we have much better conditions than, for example, the UK now seems to have when they negotiate bilateral agreements after they leave the EU. According to the OECD, low-income households in rich countries benefit most from free trade because goods purchased by the customer segment in particular are significantly more expensive with customs duties. The new rules on portability in the EU allow us today to bring streaming services such as Netflix and others when we travel. The recently adopted rules against geo-blocks allow us to trade online on an equal footing throughout the internal market. And I am convinced that in principle everyone, except perhaps the telephone operators, appreciates the EU decision to no longer charge roaming charges between EU countries, which means that we can now surf freely in other EU countries in the same way as at home. Thank you, dear European politicians, for that! Madam President, I would like We are a small and extremely export-dependent country, and no less than 1.4 million Swedes have a job to go to because of our foreign trade. For the first time since the turn of the millennium, exports are increasing in all of Sweden's counties. It creates jobs and growth throughout the country. That's really good! About three quarters of foreign trade goes to the internal market, so it is vital for the Swedish economy and our common welfare. Plucked customs duties, less administration and harmonised regulations have made 16 percent of all Swedish companies now export companies, and most of them start their international journey on the internal market. I would like to quote the Executive Director of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise in Västmanland: our EU has given us completely new opportunities to trade and cooperate in one of the world's largest integrated economies. The EU internal market provides entrepreneurs from Västmanland County[and, for that matter, all other counties] with access to more than five hundred million potential customers, and millions of companies, investors and partners. Furthermore, the EU gives us access to free trade agreements with non-member countries, and can act in markets that would otherwise be difficult to access. ..................................................... Business Sweden estimates that an additional 35 000 Swedish companies have export potential. You can count on what it would do for the Swedish economy and growth if this became a reality. Madam President, I would like If anyone would still think it was stupid that Sweden joined the EU and the internal market, the following facts should be taken into account: Our goods exports to the countries of the internal market have increased by over SEK 500 billion since EU entry in 1995. The number of Swedish companies in the internal market has doubled over the last ten years. What would the Swedish economy and Swedish welfare have been like without EU membership? Madam President, I would like Despite all this, we see a boost for right-wing populist and protectionist forces in Europe. Time and again, various studies show that free trade benefits growth, poverty reduction and job creation. Nevertheless, we have, for example, the Swedish Democrats who, in addition to waving here and there with demands for withdrawals and referendums and most recently staying-in-the-EU poodles, are unclear in their line with regard to trade policy and the internal market. For example, it is written in one second that it is in favour of free trade – we have also just heard Mr Andersson explain this here in the speaker's chair – and at the next point that trade agreements should do so by prioritising real industrial growth in Sweden. This doesn't hold. You can either eat the free-trade cookie or leave it there. It cannot be easy to understand, as a voter, what the Swedish Democrats really want with trade policy and with the EU. Madam President, I would like We broadly agree with the Commission's priorities in the letter, but we Social Democrats would like to stress the importance of our own decision in the Swedish Parliament on our tax policy, that the successful Swedish model with strong social partners is safeguarded and that the internal market is adapted to the digital economy. Another important aspect, which the OECD in particular always emphasises, is that the growth created by trade must be shared by all. We see that the advantages of trade benefit men more than women, and there is more to do. Gender equality is not only right; it is also economically smart. When women have equal access to the economy and the labour market, it leads to more sustainable growth and development. Therefore, the government has developed a tool for analysing trade agreements, and it has also pushed on the work of Unctad to facilitate mapping and analysis with that new tool, Trade and Gender Tool Box. This is great, but more needs to be done in the internal market too. Should right-wing populists and protectionists gain increased influence and prevent the development of the internal market and, by extension, Swedish growth and welfare, or should we, who recognise the benefits of openness and competition, get the people's mandate to make the necessary changes that are needed, for example, to adapt to the digital economy, better opportunities for service exports and the circular economy? Is this debate unnecessary or so important? On 26 May, the voters will decide in which direction the EU should go. Of course, I hope for a strong mandate for those of us who want to continue pushing for transparency and competition.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-34	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1, when I missed it during my speech. In recent years with Social Democratic rule, we have clearly seen how Sweden's growth measured in GDP per capita has almost completely failed. We were at the very bottom of the Union last year and, according to the Commission, we are predicted in 2019 and 2020 to have the third worst growth in the EU – this at a time when the krona is weak, our interest rate is low and the economic cycle has not yet completely changed. There are undoubtedly a number of factors behind this, and we do not have time to sort them all out here today, Madam President. What I would like to highlight, however, is that in the communication we are debating today, the Commission highlights a highly probable cause, namely the over-implementing of European directives. At the same time, it is noted that there is over-implementation of minimum requirements for harmonisation of national rules at Union level, where Member States impose higher requirements than Union rules, which risk leading to disproportionate burdens on individuals and businesses. This problem, Madam President, should also be seen in the light of the fact that Sweden has fallen behind in the regulatory simplification work, which is an additional burden for our business community. The Swedish democrats early saw this problem and have long resisted it here in Parliament, in both motions and debates. My question to Mrs Eriksson, therefore, is whether the problem of over-implementation described just now is something that the Social Democrats have also drawn attention to and, if so, how they intend to counter this in order to ensure that our business community does not suffer as a result of unnecessary bureaucracy and regulatory problems.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-39	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tobias Andersson, for agreeing to the reservation, because then I shall have reason to ask for it to be rejected! The member's description of the Swedish economy is somewhat one-sided. I would like to remind you that Sweden has the highest employment rate across the EU and that, according to all studies, we are one of the countries most benefiting from the EU's internal market. As you know, the Swedish economy runs as a train. Over-implementing rules is sometimes not recommended. But when it comes to, for example, animal welfare, environmental considerations, demands on workers' conditions and other things, I am proud that Sweden sometimes has high standards. In those areas, it's very important. From the Swedish side we see a bigger problem with countries that do not implement the rules that we have agreed in the EU. This is also something in the text that Mr Andersson could quote, because it is also very clear that it is one of the major problems. Not only do we need to agree on rules, but we also need to implement them.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-43	Madam President, I would like In our election platform, we also highlight the importance of ensuring, on the one hand, that countries comply with the requirements that apply, not least with regard to animal welfare, and, on the other hand, that we try to export the Swedish animal welfare model to the rest of the Union. So there we are in complete agreement. We also state in our platform that we see the value of being able to combat environmental and climate challenges together through, for example, joint environmental technology research. Here we are in complete agreement. What we may not agree on is how we here in Sweden ensure that our industry has competitive conditions and how we ensure that we do not overimplement rules that we do not actually need. Now we are not talking about animal welfare or environmental considerations, but we are talking about things that are purely destructive for the Swedish business community. Not least, the Swedish Enterprise Board has highlighted this on a number of occasions, and it is now also highlighted by the Commission. Then the questions remain how we ensure that we do not overimplement future EU directives and how we can effectively and actively ensure that we implement a regulatory simplification here in Sweden. That is where we have fallen behind, not least according to the OECD. The question to Mrs Eriksson remains: how do we combat this? How do we ensure that we do not continue to over-implement, and how do we carry out active regulatory simplification work here at home?
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-47	Madam President, I would like I cannot imagine Mr Andersson saying that Sweden would not implement the agreed rules. I hope it's done. I also think that the honourable Member is well aware of the fact that we are all working towards regulatory simplification to make it easier for Swedish companies. Much has been done, but much remains to be done. I can agree with that. I have to say that I am very surprised that the honourable Member does not comment at all on the tenacious approach to the European Union that I set out in my speech, nor on the view that free trade should or should not be, where I believe the SD has a dual message. However, since I cannot ask a question in my final line, I can only say that I am surprised that the honourable Member did not comment on this. Rules that we have decided on in the EU are to be implemented in Sweden. In some areas, as I have explained, we need to have even more stringent rules, but any unnecessary over-implementation is not something that we advocate.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-50	Madam President, I would like We now have to deal with the European Commission's communication on the internal market in a changing world. The world is changing, and it's moving pretty fast. We see that trade issues are constantly at the highest political level and that trade and trade barriers between the world's major countries are in the hot air. Add to this the changing world market in terms of energy and energy in the wake of the replacement of yesterday's fossil energy with tomorrow's fossil-free. Then it is understandable that the world and the conditions of different countries' trade are changing. In addition to the important security issue, one of our main objectives is to cooperate with neighbours with similar values and the same view of democracy – the single internal market. It is a huge trading platform with challenges, but above all with opportunities. The European countries have a stronger voice in the world together than each country alone. Cooperation in the EU allows Member States to seek trade agreements together also with non-EU countries, such as the recent agreement with Japan. For Sweden as a small export-dependent country, access to the large European market is extremely valuable. We export the corresponding half of our bnp. Exports are hugely important to our economy. Of our exports, the vast majority goes to EU countries. Not only is Sweden dependent on the internal market, but the whole of Europe as a continent depends on our having low barriers to trade between our countries to cope with global competition. A well-functioning trade is the basis, not only for Sweden's prosperity but for prosperity throughout the EU. Madam President, I would like That is why we consider it important that we now continue to develop the internal market. There are trends towards protectionism within the EU family that must be resisted. It is important here that we in Sweden clearly show that we stand up for the internal market. All the countries of the European Union should be able to feel confident that we all benefit from cooperation. That is why we must also look after our Europe, and in the same way as when Europe came to understand the value and respect the agreements that apply. We also need to push forward the ongoing digitalisation clearly – a digitalisation that can further tear down barriers to trade but is not entirely unproblematic. Digitalisation poses new challenges to ensure that everyone has access to the digital market but also to security issues, which are different in a digital world. Digitalisation, properly implemented, will be able to streamline and save large sums of money by making common trade simpler and cheaper. But of course there will also be new forms of crime as the market is becoming more and more digital. We need to be prepared to fight this crime. There is also a need for broad cooperation and common strategies to effectively prosecute crime. Madam President, I would like The transition to a climate-neutral economy and climate-neutral energy is one of the major challenges facing the internal market. The transition must take place in a way that does not unduly govern competition. Here it is important that Sweden clearly shows that the countries that change should not become economic losers in this, but that the transformation should also lead to economic development.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-60	Madam President, I would like The EU's 28 Member States and EEA countries together form the EU's internal market. Between the 31 countries, goods, services, persons and capital must be able to move without being hindered by customs duties, charges, discrimination or national requirements. The single market is also one of the cornerstones of economic and monetary union. Integration of the internal market, i.e. the removal of barriers, is of great importance for the free flow of capital, businesses, services and people, thus strengthening the internal market. This is the analysis that can be seen in the case. It points out that obstacles still remain and that countries must be willing to break them so that they have a real free internal market. The matter is based on an assessment of the state of the internal market which the committee has responded to. We have supported the committee's position. In the area of tax policy, the committee notes that it is important to protect the fiscal sovereignty of the Member States and that each Member State should find a way of securing welfare by collecting and using tax revenue in an appropriate manner. It is pointed out that excessive application of the rules which give the Union legislative competence in the long run could lead to a erosion of the sovereignty of the Member States. Here we agree. In the area of labour law, the committee points out that the main responsibility for regulating labour market conditions lies with the social partners, in the form of workers' and employers' organisations. The Swedish labour market model with responsible parties has been favourable to Sweden and has meant a labour market and economy that has developed well over time. The committee would therefore stress the importance of different forms of EU decision respecting how Sweden has chosen to regulate its labour market. Both of these answers point to what we from the Left Party consider to be a fundamental problem in the creation of the internal market. The single market is a cornerstone, and that is why we need to keep the various important components of our prosperity in mind if they are an obstacle to the internal market or not. The EU's internal market is based on a principle that says: In order to impose labour law requirements or environmental requirements, you must prove that they are necessary and that they do not unnecessarily interfere with the market, as the market is thus superior. I now quote from the statement that I believe that the priority for the internal market must be the reverse, i.e. that labour law and the environment must take precedence over the interests of companies and the market so that the internal market becomes a tool for developing Member States. The EU's trade policy both within the internal market and vis-à-vis third countries must be changed in a more fair, supportive and environmentally conscious direction. Unfortunately, despite the need to do so, the Commission's communication does not change the course of action compared with the policy that has been pursued in the past. ..................................................... We need to change, and the internal market could be an excellent tool for that.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-68	Madam President, I would like The objective of a well-functioning internal market must be to dismantle various types of barriers. European cooperation was built as a peace project through trade. Through simpler and more trade between people and businesses across Europe, Europe's countries would build a stronger community. The single internal market is the basis of EU cooperation and crucial for the future of the EU. That is why we can see that economic cooperation within the Union is crucial. Swedish bnp has increased by around 50% since we joined the EU about 25 years ago. Sweden should be a strong voice for free trade, primarily through global agreements but also through regional agreements. Globalisation through trade leads to better management of resources and faster deployment of technology. Free trade is the foundation of prosperity in Sweden. The increased competition from outside has spurred our companies and made them successful, without building up trade walls. Three quarters of our trade takes place in the EU's internal market. Swedish companies have access to a market with over 500 million consumers instead of just the more than 10 million available in Sweden. It creates more jobs in Sweden, which contributes to growth and competitiveness and, in the long run, to increased tax revenues that fund our common welfare. Madam President, I would like Sweden depends on the European market. It is crucial for us that European cooperation and the euro work well. The internal market is to be developed and the pace of reform is to be high. Sweden will push for the creation of a common digital single market, where digital services and cross-border e-commerce will be easier. Liberals want to strengthen the EU's internal market and work for the EU to have an open trade policy. The Single Market is the EU's greatest success story, contributing every day to jobs and growth, but also to cross-border competition, leading to lower prices and higher quality for consumers. The EU must continue to remove the remaining obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, capital and persons and combat any attempt in the Member States to introduce protectionist rules, particularly in the field of services. Europe must be able to respond to the challenges of globalisation and digitalisation. This calls for a strong liberal policy, a policy that promotes work, education, research and growth that benefits more European citizens through welfare reforms. In order for jobs to increase, more obstacles need to be removed. The internal market must function even better, whether it be goods, services, capital or people. The EU must open up trade even more with the rest of the world. The world needs more free trade and fewer walls. And if 28 countries in Europe are to be able to stand up against China, Asia and Trumps's trade war, we must resist.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-77	Madam President, I would like Today's debate is not only about how Sweden relates to the EU, but also about how we relate to trade. Although today's debate should be about the internal market in Europe, I would like to start with what I see as the bigger picture. Since its inception, the EU has maintained the four freedoms: the free movement of people, goods, services and capital. It has created relations and dependencies throughout Europe, and it has led to peace in Europe for a longer time than we have ever had before. Europe and the countries of European cooperation have never been spared war as they are now. It's easy to forget, but it's something to remember in troubled times. I am pleased that Mr Teimouri of the Liberals raised it in his speech. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about trade. In essence, trade is good for Sweden. Our country is small and export dependent. That's why it's not really weird. International trade is basically about specialisation, that is to say that some countries are better at doing certain things and then produce these things and that other countries are better at doing other things and producing those things. The theoretical conclusion is that everyone is better off, because we have access to better and cheaper goods. Of course, the world is not so simple, but it is basically this effect. Trade leads to wealth, to work and to better and cheaper products for Swedish consumers. But in the era of populism, free trade is now beginning to be called into question. Of course, I do not mean that all business transactions are good, and there are, of course, things that we should not trade with. The problem is that in a heated debate, the general rule becomes the exception and the exception is the general rule. The truth is that Sweden is a small export-dependent country. 1.4 million people in our country go to jobs linked to our exports. And an absolute majority of our trade takes place in the EU's internal market. Trade in both goods and services has increased explosively since EU entry. It's good for Sweden – most people agree. At the same time, we cannot discuss free trade in a vacuum. We know that there are winners and losers in free trade. One of the reasons why Swedes are generally in favour of international trade is that we have security systems and conversion systems that protect people in transition. That is why it is a threat to free trade and the internal market when parties on the right argue that compensation for the sick and the unemployed must be moved down in order for people to work. These parties and people have never been able to explain how it is that countries with large general welfare systems and reasonable levels of collective insurance also have low unemployment and high levels of employment. This is an important battle in Swedish politics, because without security and conversion systems people are at risk of losing faith in free trade and in the EU's internal market. Madam President, I would like It is important, correct and necessary to pursue a policy that holds our country together if, in the long term, we want to secure support for free trade and the EU's internal market. This is also something that international organisations have understood. Both the IMF and the OECD are talking about the cohesion of societies as a key to trade. However, the growing gap is a threat to the trade that we jointly crave is a context that the right wing in Sweden does not seem to have realised. Madam President, I would like Although the EU's internal market works well in many respects, there are areas with greater potential. In the field of services, countries like Germany have 600 protected titles, while Sweden has about 30. This means, for example, that a Swedish baker cannot necessarily easily sell his services in Germany or Denmark. This is an area that needs to be prioritised in the work of the internal market, and I am pleased that this is something that our eminent Minister for Trade, Ann Linde, tends to highlight. Another area is the movement of capital, where we can still see that some countries have designed rules to protect their own shares and their own players on the capital market. This, too, is an area that needs to be reformed. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to emphasise three points. Firstly, the internal market is part of the EU's peace project. This is often forgotten, and I think we need to emphasise it. Secondly, the internal market is not perfect. It must be further developed, including in the field of services. Thirdly, if we want to safeguard free trade and the internal market in the long term, cohesion in our country must be increased. We need a strong policy of security and transition. In short, we need to continue working for equality in Sweden. This is the only way we can safeguard trade and prosperity in the long term.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-95	Madam President, I would like Mathias Tegnér addresses the important social dimension in our country and in Europe and believes that Europe and Sweden are going the same way. But that is not exactly how the Social Democracy sees it. We have a very high level of social security and high levels of social care in Sweden, but at European level the Social Democrats do not defend this. Instead, we want to move some of the social reforms to European level, which means that we can get Hungary's or Romania's level of social protection. We sometimes see in our streets that people from these countries are not protected. Here, then, the Social Democrats are more faithful to their socialist comrades at European level than they are to the Swedish people. It is also the case that equality is very much about the economy and how economic development can be achieved in a country. There is the fact that the Swedish people work so much the big difference, as well as that the income of women and men is something like that when equal. Here it is hugely important to run a work line and not have a bit of a lax von oben attitude towards your fellow human beings that means that you rather live on replacements than get a real job. It is only when you have a real job that you get to be a real part of society and get all the pensions and other security markers that we have in our society. Here we are simply being careless in our work.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-99	Madam President, I would like I did not fully capture the question from Lotta Olsson, but I can still comment on the claims linked to the work line. Of course, we fully agree that the work line is extremely important. Therefore, it is also gratifying that not since the early 80s have so few people in Sweden depended on subsidies, and it is precisely because we have been pursuing an active policy for people to get to work. When the Moderates last ruled, youth unemployment was so high that we received support from other parts of Europe. How is it, I wonder, that the level of employment is highest in countries with common social welfare systems? How is it that countries like Sweden actually have the highest level of employment ever measured in an EU country? It is, of course, because there are links between the possibility of working and the possibility of transition and security when you become ill or unemployed. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to put a question to Mr Olsson. Organisations such as the IMF and the OECD have come up with what we Social Democrats have been talking about for a long time, namely that robust security systems are important to safeguard free trade and international competition over time. Without these security systems, communities are falling apart, and insecurity and suspicion of other countries are increasing. How is it that the IMF and the OECD have seen this but not the Moderates?
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-103	Madam President, I would like Mathias Tegnér chooses to deliberately misunderstand me. Of course, the social security systems we have in Sweden are extremely important, and it is in order to protect them that we really need to stand up for our work line and our security system. Then it is not good enough for socialists at EU level to decide what the Swedish security system looks like. During the eight years of the alliance government, we had a deep recession, but there were also reforms that have been a very good basis for what we are seeing today. The first year in the reign of the Social Democrats in the last parliamentary term we also had a budget that gave alliance policy. That is what we are reaping now. During a boom of fire, we see that we have a huge level of employment, but we also see that growth does not come about properly. And that's how socialist politics works. Instead, we must safeguard the reforms that lead to these developments in the long run and not believe that we have now reached a level where we can sit down and negotiate away much of what has been our forces. In order to safeguard this, we must stand up for the values that have actually made Sweden strong throughout the years. Unfortunately, it is about diligent work and saving resources and ensuring that they last in the long term, not short-term and poor reforms that do not apply over time.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-107	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson! We started by agreeing on the work line, namely that it is extremely important that the people who can work should also work. But that is probably also the only point where we agree. I think the honourable Member is a little splicing when it comes to economic prosperity and recession. I am an economist myself, and I would not quite say that it was as simple as a recession for eight years when the Alliance ruled, and then the boom for four years came with an S-government. That argument has been tried before in the case of former bourgeois governments that have failed to keep track of the economy, and it is still being used. I think it is a pity that there are so few socialists in Europe, I will readily admit. But when it comes to the idea that it is socialists in Europe who are going to create our social welfare systems, most countries in the European Union today are governed by bourgeois governments, and even the European Parliament is bourgeois. To argue that it is socialists in Europe who are trying to govern our welfare systems, therefore, I do not think is acceptable. It does not change the balance of power between Sweden and the European Union, but I think it is a good thing to try to pick up good examples within the framework of the social pillar. They do not move politics from Sweden to other countries. The Member said that it is important to have robust welfare systems in Sweden, but during the eight years of bourgeois rule both health insurance and unemployment insurance were actually slaughtered. The roofs were lowered, which increased insecurity. This is one of the reasons why the suspicion of free trade has increased. We need to turn this around; we need more equality in Sweden, not less.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-111	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation in Sku9. Today we are going to address the issue of the design of the Eurovignette system. The Government's proposal is a follow-up on this issue, which actually involves several positive aspects for the management of road user charges. It is, of course, a good thing to adjust the regulatory framework to the new reality, not least with regard to new technologies and environmental objectives. As is perhaps well known, some environmental categories have been added in this area, and the regulatory framework must, of course, be adapted to these. Madam President, I would like As we all see today when driving on our larger and smaller roads, an increasing proportion of heavy traffic is registered abroad. Often this is the result of increased trade between European countries. Transport therefore offers positive elements, such as jobs and economic development. We have no objection to this. However, this has led to an increasing number of vehicles being driven for illegal purposes. This can range from taxes not paid on the personnel costs of drivers, smuggling goods in and out of the country to carrying out illegal domestic transport. However, with regard to the Eurovignette system, the main problem is linked to the fact that the collection of the levy is not in line with statutory rules. If the legislation is not complied with and not everyone pays into the system, the question becomes what is the point of increasing the fees, as proposed in the bill. The effect is that those who actually pay will have to pay a higher fee, not to cover the use of roads, but to cover the loss, or loss, of all those hauliers who do not pay – including many foreign operators. The Eurovignette system means that taxes should be equal and make the transport industry more competitive, as no other control of the payment of Eurovignette is done more than in connection with the control of the vehicle. Then there is reason to assume that the risk of detection if you do not pay your Eurovignette is relatively small. We therefore want new technologies and a new fiscal procedure to be put in place to reduce the tax error and to curb fraud with payments to the system. Here we have allowed ourselves to be inspired by the German Lkw-Maut system, which allows the riders to install a transponder that records the vehicle's passage at reading points. In this case, the vehicle's passages are recorded with time and distance, which then forms the basis for charging road traffic tax to the transport undertaking concerned. There is also a manual system, but the transponder system is mainly rewarded. Even if an automated and digitised system were not to replace roadside checks, it would at least relieve the already hard-working and often overburdened and understaffed police staff to carry out these roadside checks.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-118	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. The very word Eurovignette does not say much, but it is about ensuring that fees are paid. In the case of cross-border transport, it is important that the money comes in. Eurovignette cooperation has been in place since 1998. This applies to heavy goods vehicles that drive on Swedish roads, among other things. Denmark, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and of course Sweden are also involved in the cooperation. Belgium is still part of the cooperation, but it is proposed to remove it as it does not charge tolls. The cooperation is therefore not relevant for Belgium. In the past, Germany has also been involved in the cooperation. The charge for driving on roads in all these countries has not been increased since 2001. This means that the price has been eroded, and it is now down to 74% of what it cost in 2001. It is therefore high time to increase the fee. What is now being proposed is not only an increase in the levy, but also a differentiation, that is to say, a difference in vehicle emission requirements. New better emission requirements for new vehicles have emerged and will be taken into account. One aim is to promote what is environmentally friendly and to impose penalties on what is not good for the environment. The new regulatory framework will be adapted to the new exhaust requirements for heavy duty vehicles. The interesting thing is that once you have paid the toll, you can drive freely. For example, vehicles from the other countries that are involved in the cooperation can drive in Sweden without paying the fee here, but it must of course be paid in. There are a little different ways to pay the fee, but the important thing is that the money comes in. For foreign vehicles, they are allowed to drive on motorways and certain European roads in Sweden which are not motorways. Swedish vehicles are allowed to drive on all roads in Sweden once they have paid the fee. The proposal has been referred, and the consultation bodies are generally very positive about it. It is a welcome proposal that is in line with time as regards the level of charges and the adaptation to the new emission requirements where the vehicle fleet has moved forward and become more environmentally friendly. It is important that we promote this. I support the proposal.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-125	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report 'Elevated and environmentally differentiated tolls' in the Eurovignette cooperation. Responsible politicians should always think once more when the issue of increased fees for companies comes up. In this particular case, the increase is reasonable, inter alia because the charges go to maintenance of the road network. The direct reason for this increase is that road user charges for heavy goods transport have not been increased for 18 years, which has led to a fall in the real level of charges and today represents 74% of the initial levels of charges introduced in 2001. Furthermore, the level of charges has not been adapted to the new emissions requirements for lorries. We Moderates believe that this type of environmentally differentiated toll is good, unlike many other government-introduced or increased so-called environmental taxes. Investing in environmentally friendly vehicles should pay off. The proposal therefore has no impact at all on companies that drive lorries with the latest and cleanest emission class Euro 6. For Eco-Class Euro 5 trucks, this is an increase of 6%, which is not until 1 January 2020. In other words, the increase mainly affects trucks in the lower environmental classes, i.e. cars that are mostly registered in other countries. Measures that reward environmentally conscious Swedish companies are very positive. The haulage industry is under pressure, burdened by all kinds of taxes and charges as well as by competition from foreign haulage companies. For this reason, perhaps the environmental differentiation should even have been greater. The Ministry of Finance itself puts it this way in the memo:- Despite this differentiation that favours vehicles with low air emissions, the increase in charges is not expected to have an effect on the amount of transport and does not control the choice of vehicle purchases, since the increases in charges are small in relation to other costs associated with heavy transport. Fee increases are therefore not expected to have an appreciable effect on the environment. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like It is problematic that foreign registered cars pay only for motorways and certain European roads. The use of national roads and roads must also be subject to a charge, for at least two reasons. The first reason is that toll relief means that these trucks currently choose smaller roads, which usually go through densely populated areas. It creates traffic hazards. The second reason is that the road network is funded by Swedish taxpayers. It's not free. As long as certain roads are not covered by the charges, foreign hauliers do not contribute at all to their financing. Another important issue here is whether compliance with the rules in professional traffic is checked and whether it is not acceptable for vehicles registered abroad to ignore paying for the vignette. There are very few police officers left who have the special skills to control trucks. The government's policy has led to a major police shortage in Sweden, and the remaining police officers are too busy fighting serious crime to be able to carry out truck checks on the roads. Finally, I have a question for colleagues on the government side. As a common thread through referrals from industry, the desire is for a review of all transport taxation and clarification of fiscal and environmental taxes. The freight transport strategy promised that the government would take a concerted approach to taxes and charges in the field of transport, and I wonder: when will the overall approach come?
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-133	Mr President, I would like to Freight transport on our roads is increasing every year, and the transport sector is the main source of carbon dioxide emissions in Sweden. Most parliamentary parties and the industry have set a tough climate target, namely to reduce emissions by 70 per cent by 2030. It is therefore important that road tolls within the E urovignette cooperation now change. Emission reduction is a major challenge, and it is important to make it clear that environmental objectives really apply and are to be achieved. Sweden's share of global emissions is small. If we are to influence the climate, we must do things that spread in other countries. We need to focus on measures that both reduce emissions and increase growth. Green tax exchange and smart instruments are therefore preferable to taxes that only bring money to the public purse. With the E urovignette change that will now be implemented, the gross revenue will increase by approximately SEK 240 million. Of these, more than 170 million come from foreign hauliers' vignettes. Mr President, I would like to For the Center Party, it has been important that a reformed E urovignette does not become a kilometre tax – that tax is not levied without environmental management. At the same time, it is extremely important that the Member States have similar systems. Heavy trucks drive many millions of kilometres to and from Sweden. That is why we must move in the same direction within the framework of EU cooperation. The tax is not intended to add more money to government finances, but rather to pay for wear and tear on roads and to provide climate management for freight transport. Mr President, I would like to The basic principle is that all modes of transport should bear their social costs. All modes of transport need to be covered by the climate targets. Changing the transport sector is a challenge, but it is not impossible. Technology development is rapid through efficiency, electrification and renewable fuels, but also through digitalisation and automation. This creates great opportunities to reduce emissions and the environmental impact of transport without reducing mobility, i.e. the possibility for people and goods to travel and transport easily and quickly. From the Center Party we see it as very urgent and necessary to increase the use of domestic renewable fuels that replace fossil fuels in passenger cars, heavy transport and working machines. That change must take place now, Mr President. Having said that, I would like to add that we support the report.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-139	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the report Sku11 Companies, capital and real estate. The Swedish business community and our companies are the foundation of all our well-being. It is with a strong and competitive industry that new jobs can grow and generate tax revenue that strengthens our common welfare. Companies should be estimated more than taxed. Unfortunately, Sweden is heading in the wrong direction – we now belong to the bottom league of the EU in terms of per capita growth. At the same time, Sweden has one of the world's highest tax pressures. In a situation in which Sweden now finds itself, with the risk of companies moving abroad, we must put companies' conditions and challenges on the agenda. Here I am thinking in particular of small businesses and family businesses. Entrepreneurs play a major role in the economy, where a significant proportion of new jobs are created. Four out of five jobs are available from smaller companies. The government does not seem to take account of the growing pressure on entrepreneurs. The tax burden on jobs and entrepreneurship grew sharply during the previous term of office, and much suggests that the government's ambition is to continue to burden businesses and ordinary people with additional tax burdens during the current term of office. The government continues to create great concern among entrepreneurs. Threats of wealth tax, inheritance tax, gift tax, increased fuel taxes etc. risk running companies abroad and reducing the willingness to invest. Raising taxes is detrimental to both the business environment and job growth. Without plan and direction, the government will now implement the January Agreement with a number of proposals that they do not even believe in. This is not a solid basis for a better and more sustainable business environment. Much is in favour of further tax increases in the coming years with the Red Green Government. Tax increases happen to be the parade of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Mr President, I would like to I grew up in a family business and have run some businesses. I have lived with the high Swedish corporate taxes and the extensive regulatory burdens and know what they mean in practice. Rules, high taxes and high bureaucracy are a huge burden on businesses today. At the same time, the tax authority's preference for interpretation is a legal uncertainty that I am happy to talk about in another speech. Sweden's companies are facing an extensive change in generation. For a family business, a transfer within the family often means a significantly higher tax than if the company is sold externally. This counteracts the long-term nature of family entrepreneurship. In order to promote long-term entrepreneurship, generational change should be facilitated. These are people who take great risks and who carry the job and responsibility for a company with them 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Family businesses are often built for a long time, with the involvement of many family members with in-depth knowledge of the company's organisation, function and purpose. When it is time for the older generation to hand over the company to the younger generation, it is not reasonable for this to mean much tougher taxation than if the same company is sold externally. It is clear to us Moderates that we need to simplify generational changes. We will work towards equal taxation regardless of whether the sale of the company is made to a related party or to an external party. Mr President, I would like to We therefore look forward to a more equal taxation – whether the sale of the company takes place within the family or if the company is sold to an external party – being introduced by the government as a result of the moderate and Christian Democratic budget decided by the Riksdag. I request the approval of reservation 7. Thank you to those of you who have listened!
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-151	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we Swedish democrats agree with all our reservations, but in order to gain time at voting time, I only call for reservations 2 and 8. Sweden is our common country – a beautiful country with a variety of capital owners, resource-filled properties and beautiful buildings that carry our rich cultural heritage and not least growing successful companies. It is a flora of owned investments and a park of assets that has benefited us as a country, both during periods of growth and in less good times. But there is always room to improve the conditions for all of this. Fundamental to all investments, whether they are in real estate, companies or other assets, is that someone has once started as a small saver and over time has been able to take that first step towards investing in an investment project. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to protect the situation of small savers. Mr President, I would like to The investment savings account, ISK, was launched a few years ago and has become a very popular form of savings for ordinary households, not least in view of the fact that its flat-rate taxation model eliminated the hassle experienced by many small savers in tax returns. Unfortunately, however, a few years ago the investment savings account was also subject to increased taxation by adding fixed interest rates as part of the calculation of flat-rate income. The Swedish Democrats are opposed to this and want to return to the original model for calculating the yield tax. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is growing, and many of our small businesses have good prospects for growth. But there are still obstacles that we politicians can remove. We in this House can give the growing companies the right tools and remove unnecessary bottlenecks. This applies to staff in general, but at least as important is to open up the capital ownership side. We therefore want to see the investor deduction develop into including legal entities. We also want to review the level of investor deduction. Deductions have always been a tool for creating incentives; it is proven in many areas. In particular, the possibility for private households to deduct has attracted financial transactions. It is important to see that companies thinking of making investments would probably increase their propensity to also implement them if they were allowed to deduct their investments. That is why it is so important that we proceed with the proposal to extend the terms of the investor credit to include companies and not only private individuals. Mr President, I would like to More than half of Sweden's total land area is covered by forest. This makes Sweden one of the most forest-rich countries in the world if we also take our population into account. Forests have played an important role in terms of employment and nutrition, but also in terms of culture. It has long been a central raw material for the construction of beautiful buildings around our country – part of our Swedish cultural heritage. For a long time Swedish foresters have moved their forests to the next generation as part of the fact that felling sometimes transcends generational boundaries. It is therefore natural that the economic conditions should also be adapted to this reality. The fact that the Swedish tax legislation contains specific rules for deferred taxation in the case of logging is therefore quite natural and logical from a geographical and historical perspective. Sometimes, however, there have been left-wing discussions on the conservation of the forest account, which raised the issue of abolition. It is our firm belief that the forest account should of course not be removed – as the state tax simplification investigation proposes – but must continue to exist. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden today we have some different conditions for energy production compared to industrial production. Increased similarity in tax bases with a similar function sends signals of a more honest, transparent and efficient tax system. We believe that subsidising wind power with a lower property tax distorts competition. It should therefore be adjusted to the same levels as for the buildings used for other energy production. Mr President, I would like to The strong population growth in recent years has contributed to a high demand for housing, while the conditions for building new and increasing supply in the larger urban areas have been very limited for both physical and legal, economic and political reasons. This has put pressure on the housing situation in all Swedish municipalities. Sometimes old, beautiful buildings have been demolished to build land. We therefore wonder whether it is not time to investigate the taxation of undeveloped land, as it tends to be that some operators buy up and stick to undeveloped land. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by saying a few words about the tonnage tax. From a global perspective, we can see how the large shipping companies have taken up more and more space, both because of the economies of scale they have and because of the many trade agreements that have been concluded in recent decades. Competition for small vessels is therefore already evident, and this is, of course, a natural part of reality. We believe that it is reasonable for more vessels to benefit from the possibility of applying the flat-rate tonnage tax.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-167	Mr President, I would like to The main benefits and risks of tax policy are at an overall level in the long term. Basically, it is about long-term conditions for people to run companies and to switch up their entrepreneurship and to strengthen Swedish competitiveness. Without companies that employ, we cannot get the tax resources we need to strengthen our welfare. Taxes are instruments that influence behaviour. They are therefore a signal that is important to bear in mind – a signal of where tax policy is heading that is at least as important as the taxes that are being changed here and now. Mr President, I would like to It is important that taxes are designed to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish companies and that the Swedish Tax Agency collects the taxes that the Riksdag has decided. Taxes must be designed so that people dare to take risks and start businesses. Taxes will contribute to growth and development throughout the country and facilitate job creation. It is therefore important that they are legally secure and long-term. The threshold for small-scale entrepreneurship needs to be reduced through regulatory simplification and lower taxes. The Center Party is pushing for an urgent review of the taxation of companies. Mr President, I would like to Regime is, unfortunately, an issue that is constantly coming up in this House. The need to modernise, simplify and improve the tax framework is clear. Smaller companies and non-profit associations in particular, such as sports associations, are suffering proportionately more severely when it comes to administration, as they rarely or never have access to financial departments working with tax advice and administration. Mr President, I would like to The tax system at an overall level, as well as individual taxes, has a great need for change. The last major tax reform is almost 30 years behind us, and society, just like companies, is completely different today. Let me take an example of the need for modernisation. Professional agents, including those offering their services via digital platforms, must be managed like other companies. However, it has emerged that the control of the taxation of services is relatively summary, as is the case on many digital platforms. This example illustrates how tax legislation and its application have not followed their time either. The taxation of platform services is in great need of updating, and it should also be explored how to simplify the taxation of digital platform-based services. We therefore want the possibility of introducing a simple and uniform flat-rate taxation of all simpler services carried out on digital platforms up to a certain ceiling amount to be investigated. Mr President, I would like to To the same extent as tax legislation must be modernised, individual efforts must be directed towards tax rules that have undesirable consequences. I would like to take one example, namely the taxation of Members who receive remuneration for board duties. In June 2017, the Supreme Administrative Court ruled that income for board assignments invoiced through limited liability companies is to be regarded as income from service for the holder of the board of directors rather than, as in the past, income from business activities. This judgment creates great concern, which primarily affects smaller companies that are in great need of external board members. In addition, according to business representatives and representatives, it is increasingly difficult to get board members to take assignments in these companies, which hampers the growth and development of our companies. For this reason, we in the Center Party propose that the tax legislation be reviewed so that board assignments invoiced through limited liability companies are considered to be business activities and not income from service for the executive director. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the Centre's reservations Nos 3 and 11.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-176	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Left Party's reservation 17 in the report under Housing Taxation. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a new housing policy that can meet the challenges we face. Today there is a housing shortage in the majority of the country's coming. The lack of housing limits people's freedom and ultimately the development of society. In particular, there is a lack of affordable rental apartments, which the market is unable to build on its own. The housing shortage is being removed with a policy of increased housing construction with a focus on environmentally friendly rentals with reasonable rents. This requires that the state take greater responsibility for financing and that municipalities take greater responsibility for housing provision for everyone regardless of income. One of several measures to be investigated is the introduction of tax-free maintenance funds. Under the current rules, owners of small-scale houses and right-of-occupancy associations can make provisions for future maintenance without tax consequences, while provisions for future maintenance in rental properties can be taxed at 22%. This makes it difficult to maintain rental properties and is one of several examples of rental dwellings being tax-disadvantaged compared to owned dwellings. The Tenants' Association has long demanded fair terms between owned and rented accommodation. They have therefore proposed, among other things, so-called tax-free maintenance funds to ensure resources for periodic maintenance and renovation of rental housing. The Left Party shares the Tenant's view. The government should set up an investigation into how tax-free maintenance funds can be used. This should be supported by Parliament and made known to the government. Mr President, I would like to Another measure concerns property tax. Last week SVT presented its review of what happened after the abolition of the property tax, which is based on the ten years after the reform was implemented. The result has been that rural areas pay for tax cuts in big cities. In a majority of the country's municipalities, homeowners pay more in property fees today than they did before the tax was removed. But municipalities like Danderyd and Lidingö still pay only half as much as before. In Kiruna and Gällivare, however, homeowners pay 60 to 70 per cent more today than they did ten years ago. The collected right-wing presented abolished property tax as a reduction in costs for all homeowners. Now the review shows that the cost of the country's homeowners has increased. To compensate for the tax loss, a municipal property fee with a maximum ceiling was introduced. But in recent years the fees have skyrocketed so much that the homeowners in 160 of the country's municipalities pay more in property tax than they did in the past. And the gaps are increasing considerably between the areas that have benefited and those that have disadvantaged so. But obviously the collected right hand works: more money for Danderyd, Lidingö and Vellinge and less for Gällivare and Arjeplog. I began by saying that Sweden needs a new housing policy, and it needs to come from the left so that the rich actually take greater responsibility and pay for themselves.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-184	Mr President, I would like to The aim of Christian Democrats' economic and fiscal policy is to build a society in which every human being's ability is exploited and where all people are given the opportunity to grow, while at the same time jointly creating security and cohesion in society. Politics must lead to more people getting into work, not least by making it easier for all those who create jobs. It is entrepreneurship and jobs that create the tax revenues used in health care, in school, in care for the elderly and to finance more police officers. When we make it easier for more jobs, we also enable more tax revenue. It is well-functioning and prosperous companies that create jobs. Therefore, policies at all levels of society must simplify and enable entrepreneurship, and taxation systems are an important part of this. Taxes and regulations must be designed in such a way as to be attractive and as simple as possible to start up and run businesses. Mr President, I would like to The report we are now debating deals with corporate, capital and real estate taxation. In the latter area, real estate, there is a risk that things will happen in the coming term of office in view of the agreement that exists between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals. I say risk, because from time to time the idea of reintroducing property tax has been raised. The real estate cat drove people from house and home, and re-establishing the property tax that we had before the alliance government in 2006 is completely out of the question for the Christian Democrats. The Liberals have clearly stated, not least in the party leader debate a few weeks ago, that no new property tax is up to date. That is a good thing, and we Christian Democrats expect that message to continue to apply. However, much needs to be done in the housing market. The steep increase in house prices and the terms and conditions of purchases have increased the demand for a large cash stake. This also means that the threshold for entry into the housing market has been raised. Together with a lack of choice of rental apartments, this leads to an increasing risk of standing without one's own accommodation. This, of course, is a negative thing in itself, but it also has a negative impact on society. When fewer people find a place to live, especially in our large cities, it can dampen Swedish growth. Companies often lift up just the lack of housing as the really big obstacle to growing. Of course, many different types of measures are needed to address the housing shortage, and this is a discussion which, of course, deserves its own debates. But one measure that is part of the solution is to facilitate savings. There are several models for what a housing saving could look like, and the Norwegian system should be a model for us. In this system, deposits are deductible up to a certain amount, and the money is in an interest account during the savings period. One disadvantage of the housing savings systems that have been in place in Sweden is that the money has been deposited in a regular interest rate account. With today's low interest rates, the return on money is low, and as the economy grows, the saver loses out on the growth of the money. The Christian Democrats therefore want to explore an alternative model for housing savings that can work within the investment savings account system. Deposits shall be deductible and shall be made in preferably funds. It should be possible to make savings between 18 and 34 years of age and be deductible up to a quarter of the price base amount, which means approximately SEK 11 200 per year in savings. A person could thus make deductible deposits of more than SEK 180 000 in the housing savings system. Should the deductible savings then be used for non-residential purchases, retroactive taxation must take place. We therefore propose that a model for housing savings under the investment savings account system be investigated. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support all our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only support reservation 5.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-198	Mr President, I would like to I will begin by talking about an important question of the future, equality. Since the 1990s, the world has been moving towards more and more inequality both globally and within individual countries. Liberalisation of control systems and generous tax cuts on capital, real estate and businesses are largely responsible for this development – that is, what we are talking about now. For some time equality has been a growing issue both internationally and here in Sweden. The OECD, the World Bank and the IMF have recognised the seriousness of the fact that a few are getting more and more of what is produced in the world. Sweden is no exception, and various governments have been on this journey. The pressure both in public opinion and from strong lobby groups with capital as financiers has occasionally and every other has been very hard in this direction. Many are those who have tried to resist and slow down, but the spirit of time, or whatever we want to call it, has been too strong. It has been possible to adjust the development but not to steer it in a different direction. At least no one has succeeded in that so far. That is why I am now pleased that in the January agreement we have established that we are going to smooth out today's growing economic divides. I see this as one of our most important issues for the future. Justice between those who have much and those who have less and a society based on equality and who stick together is the goal. We see increased conflicts around the world precisely because inequality has been seen as a non-problem for too long. Many have drawn the lance because it would be right that some earn 60 – 70 times more than others and that the solution to unemployment is that people get in the collar and tighten themselves – then the support from society has been reduced to reduced and strangled compensation and possibly a nonsense job as phase 3 to motivate people to get out of there. Of course, we will always have differences, but somewhere they become too big and tear society apart and hurt us all. It is, of course, good to appreciate entrepreneurs; so do I. But the majority of those who work and build our society are not self-employed, and these also deserve enormous appreciation. We have seen this development before, when people are becoming poorer and more difficult. Let's sniff it again, but we don't have to try it seriously this time. The ugly face of the claustrophy appears in France, where the yellow vests are fighting tax cuts for the richest while ordinary people are suffering from increased taxes and cuts in the public sector while incomes are not increasing. In the United States there are growing demands for greater and better sharing of the common. Not least is it visible in the battle for health care and education. The foundation is the same as in France and Sweden – although we may have resisted more than others. The social contract is therefore creaking in the joints quite a lot around the Western world, largely because the focus too long has been on reducing the common and reducing taxes. In order to counteract this development, we must level out the differences and restore confidence that Sweden is there for everyone, not just a few. We cannot achieve this through reduced taxes and a further plethora of deductions. The tax system must be both fair and provide the conditions for an equal basis for citizens so that everyone can create the life they want. This means, therefore, that exemptions must be reduced and that different sectors must have a more level playing field, but also that different values and incomes must be taxed more fairly than at present. With this in mind, I support the committee's proposal and reject all motions. The parties in the January Agreement will review the entire tax system in the future. This includes balancing differences but also many other things, such as that the tax system will help strengthen Swedish competitiveness, limit household indebtedness, improve the housing market, limit exemptions in the tax system and secure welfare funding. It will be a pleasure to come back to these issues when that work gets under way.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-211	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for a fun and fruitful debate. Let me first say one thing about the speech by the Social Democrats. Although I am going to tell you today why I think that companies should get simpler rules and lower taxes, it does not mean that I do not think that people who work and are not entrepreneurs should also get simpler rules and lower taxes. The Social Democrats said in the previous speech that they should also show appreciation for those who work. Of course, I want all people, whether it is an enterprising person or an enterprising person who works, to get reduced tax. One aspect that has been lost a little in the debate here today is that it is actually right to reduce the tax. There is often talk in this House about how important it is for Swedish prosperity and for us to be able to finance welfare to have a low corporate tax rate and that it is easy to create value through entrepreneurship. It is true, but the main starting point must always be that those who through hard work, through entrepreneurship and by creating a value for others who have voluntarily given their money to the enterprising person themselves must actually keep more of their own money themselves, because it is right and because it is that person's own hard-earned money. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, it is also right that the welfare we have in Sweden is impossible if you do not first have a prosperity. It is not possible to have welfare if you do not have a wealth to distribute, and prosperity is created when enterprising people create value for others, toil and invest their own knowledge, equity, their own labour force and their own effort in creating value for others. That is what is entrepreneurship. Prosperity is created when new entrepreneurs dare to test an innovative idea and overturn the old, outdated company that no longer makes it on the market because it does not deliver anything that customers want, which is usually called creative destruction. This must also enable the tax system to a greater extent, so that we have a more dynamic economy that grows as entrepreneurial people try hard and dare to challenge old businesses. There is a perspective that I think is incredibly important in this debate, and that is that it is far too difficult to get rich in Sweden. It's way too hard to come from nothing, from a tough background, and get rich here. At home in Tensta, where I live, I talked to a person who works to help people start small businesses or micro-enterprises. This person told me that the most common company that is started out there in Järva, which is a vulnerable suburb with high unemployment and major social problems and where there is a real need for more businesses and more entrepreneurship, is run by a woman with an immigrant background, who has often not worked before her life, who often lacks education and who has simply not been part of the Swedish labour market but has been isolated before she got the chance to start a business. This woman usually starts a RUT company. All it takes is 5,000 – 10,000 bucks to buy a first span, a dunk cleaning agent and an advertisement in the local newspaper, start talking to the neighbors and put up some notes in residential areas nearby where the wealth is a little bigger. Through her entrepreneurship, women gain not only more self-confidence but also what is called fuck-off capital in an ugly word in the debate – that's what the term is. She is thus given the opportunity, despite her tough background, to draw from contexts that are not good. This woman, through her own business, through her own hard-earned pennies, through her own effort and through her own entrepreneurship, has the opportunity to say, "No, I don't want to stay." I'm getting out of here, if, for example, she has a bad relationship or a socially destructive context. But then it is required that it is easier to save up for the first 10 000 crowns. Mr President, I would like to For those of us who are debating in this room perhaps SEK 10 000 does not sound like much money, because we are quite well paid. But for the person who has not worked or earned their own money before, SEK 10,000 is incredibly much and can be difficult to get together. Therefore, we need simpler and lower taxation on savings so that everyone, regardless of their background and how mediated they are, can save up for the first start-up capital. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats were one of the parties who earlier in the debate pointed out that there is a risk that the Social Democrats have talked about, for example, the property tax in the general tax policy debate this spring and earlier this autumn. I share the concerns of the Christian Democrats. I fully agree that every day there is an imminent risk that parties that do not share a liberal view of private ownership and that we should have low taxes in society time and again will come forward with proposals to raise taxes. However, if these parties are left to decide on tax policy alone, it is even more likely that they will get their proposals through. Mr President, I would like to I wish that the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and other parties who share my view of fiscal policy – that we should have as low taxation as possible and that people should retain much of their money themselves – take part in the important work of tax reform that is to take place during this parliamentary term. I believe that this work will be more successful then, and the chances that the Liberals can stop property tax and that we will have more tax policy profits are increasing. We have already received some in the January agreement: we will change the 3:12 rules. We will reduce employers' contributions. We will enforce regulatory simplifications for micro-enterprises. We will make it easier for companies to develop their skills. This is something that the Moderates have also proposed in a number of motions that we are debating in this House today. I hope that these parties will also be able to implement a tax reform that liberalises and makes it easier to enter into business, easier to be an enterprising person and easier to be an entrepreneur who overturns old, outdated companies. Mr President, I would like to In my previous role, before I became a Member of Parliament, I was chairman of the Liberal Youth League. At that time, I spent quite a long time – at least a few weeks, which is a long time in a youth federation – sitting down with the President of the Social Democrats, Philip Botström, and trying to agree on a tax reform. It wasn't easy. Then we did not have the media over our shoulders in the same way as we do in this forum. Nor were we elected on heavy electoral programmes that we felt obliged to implement, but we were perhaps, on the other hand, more ideological. Perhaps we both had a membership base behind us which, to a greater degree than parliamentary parties, pulled us out to each of our poles. And yet we succeeded. Nevertheless, Philip Botström and I managed to agree on a way of reforming Sweden's tax system so that it would be easier to enter, operate in Sweden and know which rules apply and avoid a lot of deductions and subsidies and different tax rates here and there that make the system incalculable. Mr President, I would like to I wish that this debate and the previous tax policy debate that we had here could be the start of a work that shows that we in the Swedish Parliament are as mature as two youth union chairmen can be. I'll stop there. I hope that together we can reduce the tax, allow people to keep more of their own hard-earned money and make it easier to enter into business.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-226	Mr President, I would like to There are two purposes to our taxes. The first is to raise money for the necessary public expenditure and investments. The second is to stimulate desirable behaviour and minimise undesirable behaviour. For example, the Alliance government felt that it was good for people to work, and therefore the job tax credit was introduced to stimulate work and self-sufficiency. When you look at the report that we are debating today, you can easily get the impression that the government side believes that maritime transport is something that should not be pursued. It rejects the proposal to revise the reduction in the energy tax on electricity to include smaller ships. Why is reduced energy tax on electricity so important? It is simply because it reduces the emissions from ships in port and lowers the noise level, because generators powered by diesel or fuel oil are replaced by electricity. Many Swedish ports have recently installed land power connections. The connection means that the ship's machinery is completely shut down, which means that the emissions are equal to zero. If green electricity is used, as in the port of Trelleborg, the environmental benefit will be even greater. In 2016, for example, all Stena Line's power connections in port contributed to a reduction of 12 500 tonnes of CO2 emissions, corresponding to annual consumption of 6,500 average passenger cars. Imagine the emission reductions that could be achieved if even smaller ships replaced diesel and fuel oil with electricity. It is therefore very strange that you have chosen not to support this proposal. Even more remarkable is the fact that the Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth is promoting the development of shipping and has become the biggest friend of shipping. You don't talk to each other? Do you not know that your own government claims to be in favour of transferring freight and passenger transport from road to sea, both to relieve the road and to help the environment? This is exactly the kind of initiative that everyone should support. In view of the recent development of battery-powered ferries and electric hybrids, we Moderates believe that they should also be given the opportunity to reduce electricity taxes. Mr President, I would like to Aviation tax affects accessibility and competitiveness in Sweden. The airline tax is nothing more than a provocation to our entire life - style, development and prosperity. It is a tax which, like other taxes, aims to bring money to the treasury but which is otherwise a way of saying no to what most of us here stand for: mobility, modernity, transparency, growth and development. It is simply a tax from a distance, and those who do not live in the big cities are punished. There is no mode of transport that can replace air travel when it comes to the ability to move quickly, which is essential for all business trips but also for people who, in their hard-pressed everyday lives, have found a single window of leave and want to leave together with their family. But whether it's about the entrepreneur who needs to go to Stockholm every week or the children's family who have saved a long time to make a trip abroad, the idea behind the airline tax is wrong. Aviation tax is of no benefit to the environment at all, nor is it earmarked for environmental investment. The fact is that the tax is counterproductive and also very harmful to the Swedish economy. Many Swedish jobs are threatened when passengers choose to fly from Denmark or Norway. If the objective is to reduce emissions, this should be done with effective measures, such as investments in new technologies and better use of routes. Saab and GKN already have technology that reduces fuel consumption and thus emissions from aviation. However, investment is made more difficult by the fact that airlines are forced to bear part of the air tax imposed, as it is not possible to roll over the entire cost of passengers in a hard-pressed industry with very small margins. We Moderates believe that the most effective way to achieve the right environmental impact is to introduce a possibility of carbon dioxide taxation on aviation fuel. Sweden should take the lead shirt to renegotiate the international agreements and conventions that are currently putting an end to the taxation of aviation fuel. Sweden is well on the way to eliminating emissions. In 40 years, emissions have fallen by 70%. The Swedish aviation industry is working to become completely fossil-free in 2045 with a first interim target for fossil-free domestic aviation in 2030. Research, technology and international binding agreements have a better effect than aviation tax both globally and at home in Sweden. We Moderates want to combat emissions, not travel, people's lifestyle, modernity, development and growth. Mr President, I would like to I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 18.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-239	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats support all the SD reservations in this report, but for time to come, I only call for reservations 1 and 16. The collection of excise duty must be carried out in a way that achieves the purpose of the tax, i.e. directing consumption and investment in a particular direction, taking into account public health, the environment or other effects that might be considered desirable. Excise duties are also an important source of revenue for the state – well over SEK 100 billion annually. So it is not a small area that we are debating. However, it is now fairly well known that excise duties are also introduced with a view to strengthening the public purse rather than achieving more efficient use of society's resources. The security systems that we once took for granted with a large public sector have been partly financed by these excise duties. However, as welfare systems are now creaking – when we see an increasingly costly migration policy, an increasingly failed integration policy, inefficient labour market policies – more and more people are beginning to question the benefits of these high taxes, including in the area of excise duties. A well-functioning tax system depends, in the long term, on its being perceived as justified and achieving the purpose of these taxes – that tax revenues are used for what they are intended for and, not least, for the purpose of maintaining good tax ethos. The most widely known excise duties are tobacco tax, alcohol tax and road traffic tax. But those who generate the greatest revenue are taxes on energy and carbon dioxide. Some 55% of excise duties can be derived from it. This is also evident in the report that we are now debating. Much of the motion for a resolution is about that. It needs to be stressed, however, that not only is tax increases imposed on things that are considered undesirable. Tax subsidies are also introduced on what is considered desirable. One such example is the tax reduction for renewable microgeneration of renewable electricity. There, the producer will receive a tax reduction equal to twice the energy tax on the amount of electricity supplied to the grid by the micro-producer, up to 30 000 kilowatt-hours. This applies to the extent that the corresponding withdrawals have been made from the network. Initially, the reform involves fairly modest costs for the state budget, about SEK 20 million being budgeted annually as tax expenditure. In the long run, however, it risks becoming costly and also leads to a reduction in revenue for electricity producers operating on a commercial basis on a competitive market. The introduction of the system is apparently exclusively linked to the promotion of solar cells. A major problem with solar cells is the irregular production because the power source is dependent on sunlight for obvious reasons. This means that solar cells produce very little electricity during the dark and cold months of winter. In principle, we can say that flows of electricity across national borders are controlled by the temperature, when we export excess capacity in the summer months and import electricity in the winter. In addition, in summer production is limited by planning maintenance, storing water in the warehouses and completely shutting down certain facilities. In practice, this means that all subsidy money for solar power is to be regarded as a social cost. Solar cells produce at their best from May and a few months ahead and basically nothing this year's darkest and coldest months. What it means is that solar cells cannot replace anything else in the energy system when we still have to have the capacity to meet the demand for effect on the days of the year when demand is at its greatest. Those days fall just when it is darkest and coldest. This means investing in double capacity, which can hardly be regarded as either environmentally friendly or socio-economic. If we are to be environmentally friendly, we must also be resource efficient. Under other conditions, in other parts of the world, solar cells can come to their own. This applies, for example, to high solar radiation while using energy for cooling, i.e. that demand is greatest at the peak of production. In Sweden, however, reverse conditions apply. The energy system as a whole is thus considered ineffective. With regard to the question of an ever-increasing tax levy, this is something that the Swedish Democrats want to address. This applies to things that are obviously harmful, such as ever - increasing taxes on fuel for food producers. Open and living landscapes cannot be legislated, but we can retain that only if farming, forestry and keeping animals are economically sustainable. Swedish farmers compete in the same European market as their neighbours in Denmark, for example. The Swedish Democrats consider it reasonable that the level of taxation for different inputs is the same. The tax on diesel for agriculture and forestry therefore needs to be reduced to the same level as in Denmark. On 1 July 2017, a tax on electronic products was introduced under the name ‘chemical tax'. The tax is based on weight and takes little or no account of the facts that could lead to exposure of chemicals. Sweden is far too small to influence on its own the use of various chemicals by global electronics giants, for example, for fire safety, which is often the issue. Moreover, the tax does not provide an incentive to use other options. The actual target, to reduce the exposure of certain chemicals, is at best marginal. Instead, the chemical tax imposes an increased administrative burden on both public authorities and industry, reduced competitiveness for Swedish commercial and industrial companies, and strong incentives to shift company structures for increased internet trade so that the tax is completely legally circumvented. When the chemical tax was introduced, the Swedish democrats were the sole party to abrogate the introduction. We then stated in a motion to the Riksdag that the legislation means that Sweden loses jobs, employers' contributions, income tax, VAT and corporation tax. This means, according to all common sense, that Sweden is becoming poorer. The government thought it could raise about SEK 2 billion a year on this tax, but it must be seen as a very short-term profit given the very strong incentives to circumvent the tax by moving the business out of Sweden. That is exactly what has happened. According to a report from the Swedish Trade Investigation Institute, the introduction of the tax has led to higher prices in Sweden than in other countries. The Institute of Investigation points out that the impact of the tax on foreign trade appears to have been underestimated by the government. The tax has deducted 1 billion less, according to the Swedish Institute of Investigation's report, while at the same time leading to lower margins for Swedish companies and job losses in the industry. The Swedish Democrats believe that the tax should never have been introduced and that the government should take a look at the issue before harming Swedish business in such a way that it will be difficult to restore. Instead, the government should come back with a new strategy on how to work against potentially harmful chemicals. This excise duty is the wrong way to go.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-256	Madam President, I would like Sometimes when I think of the great honour that I have been given to act as a Member of Parliament and also on the Tax Committee, I sometimes think: That's great! Why? My friends are probably somewhat surprising, because actually I think the numbers are a bit boring and just should work. The issues that have brought me here to Parliament are the traditional centre issues of the environment, entrepreneurship and living countryside. Why, then, am I still happy about this? Because taxes are something that affects everyone. They affect all people, all municipalities and all businesses. Tax is somewhere the state's ultimate way of governing people's lives. This applies, in particular, to excise duties, which are the subject of the report we are about to discuss. It is good to be able to control consumption and production. That is the point of excise duties. But you also have to steer towards something that is good or better. Otherwise, there's no point. An excise duty must be fair, and there must be alternatives. Madam President, I would like It is therefore extremely pleasing and honorable to work in the Committee on Taxation. I will talk a little about the principles that I think are important for excise duties. I would first of all like to say that I naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party in the report, but for the time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 10. I and many with me think that energy taxes are the really big and tricky issue. The aim is to steer towards environmentally friendly consumption and production of energy. This means a reduction in taxes on bio-based energy production and consumption and an increase in taxes on energy using fossil fuels. You really have to think about this. Are businesses and people carrying a higher tax? Does the impact on the growth of businesses, which many of me have previously highlighted here today, have? We must be very careful about this when we raise, introduce or, at best, lower a tax. The production of solar electricity is the best example of energy taxes. The proposal is – or perhaps even already – that small solar electricity producers should be fully exempt from tax if approved under EU state aid rules. It's an optimal situation. Another positive effect would be to achieve more flexible taxation. Since bio-based energy production in Sweden is highly weather-dependent, it would be good if we could achieve a flexible taxation that allows consumers to choose when they want to consume their energy. When there is low demand it is a cheaper tax, when there is high demand it is a more expensive tax. It is simply a consumer-driven tax. Madam President, I would like Another real question, which many have commented on with me, is taxation on fuels. It is also seen from the point of view of fairness. Here we have guaranteed a great whole-country effect. If there's somewhere excise duty can go wrong, this is it. We must, of course, deal with the emissions from our transport. But we cannot simply raise fuel prices straight off, because it hits the countryside. If we are to do so, we must also take compensatory measures, and that is a major educational issue. In addition, make sure that alternative fuels are available throughout the country, which it does not today! Or work in other ways, with deductions! The Center Party has proposed a rural deduction and to work with vehicle tax and travel deductions that are environmentally friendly. One of the most important instruments of governance and an important signal is that Sweden is allowed to maintain our reduction in the tax on biofuels – a particularly important issue to continue to negotiate within the European Union. On the same theme, there is a tax that would be hugely unfair and wrong: it discussed but not yet imposed the road-wear tax, on which the previous government spent an incredible amount of resources. You cannot tax distances in a country like Sweden. You cannot punish people who live and work in the country or companies operating in the country. There are no rail tracks to replace road transport, and, as I said, there is no access to environmentally friendly fuel throughout the country. I am pleased that in the past we have voted through a different piece of legislation on Eurovignette, in which we can collect environmental charges and avoid yet another tax system, namely the road user tax. The chemical tax has been mentioned, and if I have understood correctly, it is under investigation or to be investigated. I think that's important. If things have gone wrong, we must be able to reverse and redo. The Center Party has been in favour of a tax on chemicals in textiles. I think it is a good signal to work with the industry and get it to use our Swedish textiles, such as wool fibre. I will say a few words about alcohol tax, although the Center Party has not raised any motions about it this year. Alcohol duty is a very clear example of excise duty, i.e. tax as an instrument, perhaps not working properly. If we increase the alcohol tax, purchases will decrease, but we all know that alcohol consumption will not therefore decrease. The introduction of alcohol, legal and illegal, from abroad has enormous consequences for customs, in addition to the effect on human health it has when we increase our alcohol consumption in Sweden. That's where we're in trouble. If you look at the volume of alcohol seized at our borders, for example in Helsingborg, it gives the impression that we in Sweden are engaged in only 50th anniversary parties and marriages – all the time and always. These are the volumes we are talking about. This leads to a system of liquor cars in our cities, where young people can buy contraband alcohol. CAN, the National Association for Alcohol and Drug Information, conducts so-called monitoring surveys that attempt to register the consumption of alcohol, both the one purchased in Sweden and the one that is smuggled or purchased. But is that enough? Here I think we need to join forces and discuss changes in how we deal with alcohol consumption and tax.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-273	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Left Party's reservation 15 in the report, under the point on congestion tax. Madam President, I would like Climate justice policy is about promoting good and fair living conditions locally and at the same time taking responsibility for climate impacts that affect other regions and countries. Individual decisions may to some extent affect the degree to which one lives environmentally friendlyly or not, but for an individual it may be difficult to influence one's environment to any significant extent. The environmental and climate crises are fundamental societal crises that we can only resolve together and where people's commitment to creating sustainable solutions should be exploited. Therefore, political solutions to climate problems are needed. One example that has been governing is the airline tax. But the Moderate before me here mentioned that it is a provocation to the way of life. Whose lifestyle are you talking about? It's obvious that whoever pollutes the most should pay the most, so maybe we should call the airline tax Carl Bildt tax. When we debate excise duties today, it is, of course, related to climate justice. The intense private carism in our major cities is a much greater threat to the environment than car traffic in rural areas. For example, the environmental and climate impact of transport in major cities can be addressed by congestion charges and major investments in improved public transport. Madam President, I would like The Left Party welcomed the introduction of congestion tax in Gothenburg in 2013 and sees the need for further measures to strengthen congestion charges as an instrument. Today, a municipality cannot decide for itself whether to impose congestion charges. We believe that municipalities, county councils and regions should be allowed to decide for themselves whether they want to introduce congestion charges and how the revenue should be used. The decisions and agreements already made by the Swedish Parliament and the State regarding already introduced congestion taxes in Stockholm and Gothenburg should not be affected by new legislation. The government should be given the task of returning with proposals for new legislation that allows municipalities, county councils and regions to decide for themselves on the introduction of congestion charges and their design. This should be supported by Parliament and made known to the government.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-279	Madam President, I would like As many have been involved in the debate, taxes are an effective way of directing people to make different choices. It is effective to tax what we do not want in society, and it is equally important to reduce taxes on what we want more of. The taxes that we have must be well justified, and their design and effects must be carefully analysed. We must always ask ourselves whether a tax is really the only and best way to achieve an objective and whether the positive effects outweigh the negative ones. Madam President, I would like The transport sector accounts for one third of Sweden's total emissions, and most of this is emissions from road traffic. Emissions must be greatly reduced, and fortunately a great deal is happening in Sweden, but also around the world, in order for this to happen. Electrification and other alternative fuels are probably the most important thing in order to achieve the objectives, and the tax system must steer these alternatives to be rewarded. Today, in my hometown of Gothenburg, there are electric buses, and hopefully a new electric ferry will be on the Göta River shortly. That's good, but there's more to it. We therefore want to review whether and how the tax on electrified public transport can be reduced. It must be easier and cheaper to choose climate-smart alternatives. Madam President, I would like Maritime transport is an important part of the climate transition, which Boriana was involved in earlier. I fully agree: maritime transport is absolutely essential for us to succeed in changing for the sake of the climate. But, like all other modes of transport, shipping can also be better, and here too tax incentives are needed. The Alliance government carried out a reduction in the energy tax on land current for larger ships in professional shipping. It has made it relatively cheaper to use land current when the ship is at berth than to use generators powered by diesel or fuel oil. This reduction in energy tax has been successful and has led to a reduction in both ship emissions and noise levels. Many Swedish ports have invested in new facilities in recent years. However, the current reduction covers only larger vessels. This hampers the shift from fossil fuels to renewable electricity in maritime transport. It is therefore necessary to review whether the reduction in energy tax on electricity may also apply to smaller vessels. In view of the recent development of battery-powered vessels and electric hybrids, it is also appropriate to examine whether these can be included in the tax reduction. Madam President, I would like Of course, I and the Christian Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but for time-winning, I only call for reservation 11.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-287	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for a good debate, although I think it has been a little too happy. We have been a little too happy and a little too excited to use excise duties to control people's lives. Clearly, Madam President, there are things to which excise duty should be applied. There are things I do in my life that affect other people negatively, and other people's freedom can be limited when I use mine. Examples of this include emissions and the use of dirty fuels that destroy the environment and the climate. But then there are things people should actually be allowed to do with their hard-earned money. Madam President, I can get a little tired of the mantra that we are going to control people's lives. Socialism and planned economy are not good just because you have good intentions. Basically, it is almost always wrong to control what others do, as long as it is not about protecting the next line, so to speak, as in the example of climate taxation. I was one of them, Madam President, who was sceptical when Anders Borg, our Finance Minister, said that people should work and not drink. If you want to drink for money that you have worked together, you should of course be allowed to do so, I think, as long as you also bear the costs that welfare then gets. There is one area in which, at least on paper and in the debate, we seem to agree between all parties on having tough excise duties, and that is on the environmental and climate issue. However, I note that, in the end, Madam President, it is a little less offensive from several parties in this House. We talk in big words about saving the climate, saving the environment and using point taxation. But when it comes down to it and burns, once we want to do something, not all parties are as alert at the same time. This, Madam President, is the case with aviation taxation. I and the Liberals agree with several other parties that aviation taxation at Swedish level is quite much in vain. It is fairly easy to take the train over to Copenhagen and fly from there. Sweden is perhaps a little too small a player to be able to do this properly. Flights also move across borders, which makes it a little complicated: What is right and what is wrong when collecting the tax? However, we in the Liberals think that we should have a European air tax, a European air tax, to overcome the problem of air travel across borders and that otherwise we can escape the responsibility to bear the costs that it entails for others to choose to fly. Madam President, I would like I therefore note that the Liberals are the only party in this Parliament that wants it to be easier for the EU to introduce a flight tax. Today is not going to work. If we have the way we have today to get tax proposals through in Europe, that will not work. The parties that say that they want a European aviation tax, such as the Left Party, but are not prepared to change the way in which the EU takes decisions on environmental and climate taxes are actually misleading the voters. Because that will not be possible. I also note, Madam President, that several parties are talking hotly about excise duties on things that are bad for the climate but in others choose to subsidise and create deductions for just such things. Liberals don't want us to subsidise dirty fuels. You can call it deductions or subsidies depending on whether you are right or left; you can call it subsidies or tax breaks, but basically the Riksdag should not give incentives to people to use dirty fuels. We are against this as a party. With those words – words that you should actually be allowed to do a little more as you want with your own money, whether it is something that we politicians think is bad for some reason, and words that we actually have a responsibility to ensure that the things you do that hurt others should be curbed by excise duty, such as air taxation at European level or the removal of deductions for things that are bad for the climate – I would like to endorse two reservations, reservation 18 and reservation 8. I support all the reservations expressed by Liberals, but for reasons of time, I am only in favour of these two.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-297	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my speech in this debate on excise duties by saying that there is a fairly important background to what we are debating today. Some things have happened. The first thing that happened was that we had a transitional government that presented a transitional budget – quite unique in Sweden's history. We simply followed the line we had previously taken. We were not allowed to make any new proposals, simply. Then another dramatic thing happened, and it was that the budget reservation of the Moderates and Christian Democrats to the transitional budget won and went through. This budget meant laws but also announcements, i.e. commissions to the government to carry out what had been decided in this budget reservation. Another thing that has happened and which is important in this debate is that we now have a so-called January agreement, in which the Social Democrats, together with the Green Party, the Liberals and the Centre Party, have agreed on politics in the future on a large number of points. This applies to budgetary cooperation but also to general cooperation. This, of course, affects what we are talking about today, because what we are discussing today are motions by Members of Parliament in the field of excise duty, and that is affected by all this, both the M-KD budget and the agreement. I would then like to take some background on why excise duties are needed. We have a climate challenge, and there are excise duties to promote environmentally friendly behaviour important. We want to promote the environment and, on the other hand, make it less advantageous not to be environmentally friendly. It is a summary of excise duties on the environment. As early as autumn 2009, a climate package was adopted here in the Riksdag on energy taxes, on steering towards more climate-friendly behaviour and on reducing climate emissions. But it was also about us having to adapt to EU rules. Of course, we should also influence Europe in the direction we want, but we must comply with existing EU rules. It was also about ensuring that the competitiveness of Swedish companies is maintained, obviously with strong environmental requirements. This has been on the table for a long time. What we can now see is that we need to do more. Sweden has a fairly small population, but our climate footprint corresponds to four globes. If everyone in the world were to live the way we Swedes do, we would need four globes. This means that even here in Sweden we must take our responsibility. Of course we are an environmentally friendly country, and we do a lot of political things for the environment and the climate. But if you look at consumption, you can see this carbon footprint at the same time. This means, of course, that we should try to influence the whole world to be environmentally friendly, and not least the European Union, but we must also take our responsibility in Sweden. This applies both to reduce our climate footprint so that it no longer corresponds to four globes and to set an example. After all, it is not reasonable for us to urge others to be more climate-friendly if we do not do our part ourselves. It's natural, I think, that we do both. I wasn't going to go into everything here, but I was going to make some impact. One impact is for electric buses. Of course, it is good when you switch to electricity so that you are no longer dependent on fossil fuels, because they are the ones that are destroying the climate. Today we have an incentive to purchase electric buses. On the one hand, electric buses are an expensive investment compared to other buses, on the other hand, the electric bus is cheap to use once it is in place. Therefore, we have chosen to have targeted investment aid to encourage the purchase of electric buses, but we have not reduced the electricity tax on use. You cannot always do everything, and in this way we have done what we think is most useful. Another impact I was going to make is about the farmers. In the January agreement we have come with an entry that we will support Swedish agriculture. At the same time, it is unreasonable to continue with a great deal of fossil fuels in agriculture. We must all shoulder our responsibilities in order to reduce this. Furthermore, farmers are indeed a group that has been affected by climate change. We saw what it was like this summer. It was a real crisis with the drought that prevailed at the time. Had it continued, it could have been a real disaster for agriculture, and it was bad enough as it was. We should definitely support the farmers, not least in such a crisis situation, but then the question is how to support. We would prefer to support in a way that does not harm the climate – not to encourage the use of more fossil fuel but, on the contrary, to benefit the environment-friendly. Of course, we can then imagine other subsidies for agriculture as well. As far as vehicles are concerned, we want a fossil-free vehicle fleet. It's gonna take time. You understand that. But you have to do this step by step if you are to achieve the goal. It is really about us competing out fossil fuels by favouring the environmentally friendly alternatives, that is, renewable fuels, biofuels. This is done simply by having a tax on the fossil and then an economic advantage on the other. This is not just about taxing penalties at all, but it is actually about a form of tax exchange that benefits economically what is environmentally friendly. This will mean in the future that the less fossil is used, the cheaper it will be for users. The aim is not, therefore, to pay a great deal forever, but to make a gradual transition to the environment-friendly alternatives. The climate issue is one of the most important challenges we have. In the case of road traffic, half of the traffic is not covered by EU allowances. Here we have vehicle taxation and premiums for environmentally friendly vehicles and also fuel taxes as a complement. A good entry is what is called bonus – malus. At first I couldn't understand what it meant, but once you understand it, it's very simple. Bonus is good and malus is bad. You make things easier for the good and make things worse for the bad. It's a pretty simple principle, really. I would like to conclude by saying that there have, of course, been good proposals from Members of Parliament. There is also much work going on at the Government Office on these issues. One example is that it would be reviewed that the residual products in the recovery of waste should not be taxed once to l. In a motion, there is a suggestion that tax could be avoided in this situation because of the positive and recovered action. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency looks at questions about this, i.e. what they call the landfill tax on waste recycling. The government is following this work. So there are good things here that the government is looking at. M a it is important to let investigations take their course, because then you get a much better knowledge base when you then proceed on issues.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-311	Madam President, I would like Taxes, including VAT, shall be reasonably high. As a moderate, I see a clear problem with today's high taxes on labour, entrepreneurship and investment. Today's high taxes hamper entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship as well as Sweden's competitiveness. As you know, we are the most export-dependent country in the world. 53 proc ent of bnp is export revenue. Ultimately, it is our prosperity and our common welfare that are hampered when we tax work, education and people who run businesses. With the budgets of the Moderates and the KD, we have now again taken important steps to reduce taxes on labour. It is still a problem in Sweden that it pays too bad to work. Our starting point, as Moderates, is that taxes in Sweden are too high. The tax burden must be reduced, especially on labour. Of course, it is possible to say a lot about how different VAT rates should be designed, whether there is a value of a more uniform VAT or whether certain VAT rates should be adjusted in some respect. However, what is out of the question for us Moderates are strong tax increases, whether it is about taxes on labour or about VAT. Here is a clear dividing line in Swedish politics. Madam President, I would like Culture VAT has been extensively discussed in recent years, particularly following sharp tax increases on an estimated cultural form that the Red-Green Government pushed through during the last term of office. The massive increase in cinema VAT during the last parliamentary term was unfortunate. VAT was increased from 6% to 25%. In particular, the tax increase hit the smaller cinemas in the country. At the same time, the government was quick to introduce free entrance at 18 state museums, 13 of which are located in the inner city of Stockholm. This is a cultural policy imbalance in which the government actively promotes state culture that is primarily found in the capital. The government has introduced extensive charges for important parts of the country culture through increased cinema VAT, but at the same time the taxpayers' money is used to promote the culture that is primarily found in the capital. It is difficult to understand the political direction. We Moderates are the guarantor of a lower tax burden. With the government's balance sheet of 60 billion in increased taxes during the last term of office, it is difficult to hope that the government now has a different direction or ambition than to raise taxes further during the current term of office. Ordinary people get less money in their wallets to live on, and fuel taxes skyrocket and impoverish our countryside as the red-green tax elevator race continues in old order. Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations expressed by the Moderates, but I only call for reservation 1 in the report.
i-QMXMpyndyhSUV4Bz3nJWrX	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2 to be approved in the committee's report 13. Today, awareness is high that the tourism and tourism industry is an important and growing part of our business community. Especially in rural areas, Sweden has a large and for our part of the world quite unique tourist attraction in the form of large areas with untouched nature. Creating jobs and local businesses around this has historically been neglected, perhaps partly because the very entrance to our main tourist attraction, the right of public access, is free of charge. In recent decades, however, the trend of activity and experience holidays has created a nutrition around nature and countryside where holidaymakers from near and far seek their way. The interest in Sweden is great. The World Economic Forum places Sweden's attractiveness on site 20 out of 136 countries compared. However, Sweden's place on the ranking list has fallen from 5 in 2011. In 2017, tourism sales in Sweden amounted to 317 billion, and 42 per cent of these came from foreign tourists. The industry still has great potential. The goal of one of Sweden's largest tourism organisations is that by 2020 we will have a turnover of 500 billion. To achieve this, investment in infrastructure, training, regulatory simplification and increased attractiveness is needed abroad. Today, there is a challenge of differentiated VAT rates in various tourism industries. It can lead to unnatural competitive advantages and disadvantage small-scale tourism found mainly in rural areas. The effects are that the most labour-intensive parts of tourism can be disadvantaged and that the regulatory framework is perceived by many as cumbersome and bureaucratic. It is high time for fair taxation of tourist activities. We want to see an investigation into the conditions for harmonising VAT rates for various tourist attractions. Equivalent activities should be taxed more uniformly and clearly so that taxation becomes more competitively neutral. Operators should not have to navigate grey areas because the regulatory framework is not clear enough. Madam President, I would like Sweden has an outstanding and attractive nature. Sweden also has a prominent position for its size in the world when it comes to the development of computer games. There is still great potential for the Swedish and Nordic computer games industry to take place and develop. Computer games not only have an entertainment value. It is also a tool for conveying knowledge. We have the ambition that gaming development and infrastructure should be maintained and developed in Sweden in the long term. However, with differences in VAT rates on the purchase of games in different countries, a so-called grey game key market has been created. This means buying digital keys to be able to play the whole game from other countries, only to get away from the national VAT rates. The Swedish Democrats believe that it is important to review what measures need to be taken to ensure that gaming consumers buy the games from official players for the sale of games in Sweden. It could be a question of introducing rules that allow cultural VAT to be applied to gambling. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, we need a general review of VAT fraud in Sweden. It is still the case that all VAT is not paid in accordance with the legislation. This means that the so-called tax error still exists. We need to analyse how the VAT tax procedure can be improved legally, technically and economically, so that we minimise the tax error.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-327	Madam President, I would like In a debate on VAT, or VAT, it is important to remind ourselves that VAT is a tax on consumption. It is finally paid for by the person who buys or rather consumes a good or service. It is important to recall this because the system is based on the fact that those dealing with VAT at the pre-consumption stage, the final purchase if you wish, must be met by transparent rules and tax rates in order for the system to function. VAT rules are a complex piece of legislation that can be difficult to interpret and apply. Many companies see VAT rules as an administrative burden, a complex piece of legislation that is expensive to administer. It is also more difficult to do right if the rules are complicated. The starting point for the whole of tax policy must be that it should be easy to do the right thing. Although in the short term it can be interpreted as utopian, it is an urgent starting point that we must have in order to constantly strive for improvements. Madam President, I would like On VAT issues, we will relate to the EU countries' common VAT directives that are under change, as well as to Swedish legislation. This duality is not unique to VAT, but VAT issues are characterised by a range of different legislations and applications that can sometimes be perceived as contradictory. Different activities in society are subject to different VAT rates. Sometimes these differences may not only be illogical but also inhibiting entrepreneurship. For this reason, the restaurant VAT was reduced a number of years ago. Before the VAT change, VAT was on food served in a restaurant 25 per cent, but if the food was brought back to the dwelling, the corresponding VAT was 12 per cent. It gave rise to the strange situation that if you had lunch or dinner inside the restaurant it was more expensive than if you took the food with you. Unfortunately, this is not the only example. There are several. Dancing tapes are an example that there is still reason to lift up. It doesn't make any sense. The VAT rate for a music concert where the audience is listening is 6 percent. This applies even if dance is performed on stage. But if the audience or audience starts dancing, VAT will be increased to 25 percent. Madam President, I would like Another question is sailing up after a judgment in the Supreme Administrative Court and changed interpretations from the Swedish Tax Agency. It is a new VAT on the hiring-in of temporary agency workers and health services. It is introduced from mid-year onwards and disregards the current principles of VAT-free health services. The VAT rate is different. Publicly driven care receives VAT compensation from the state. Privately driven care doesn't get it. Another good example that can be highlighted of how private and public activities are handled differently in tax terms is the ambulance flight. It demonstrates the importance of reviewing the application of VAT. Madam President, I would like While dealing with illogical, contradictory and complicated VAT rules, the system must be applicable to the digital economy, ultimately to consumers of the new era. When all kinds of purchases are made from tablets and mobile phones, it is more than clear that the VAT system has fallen out of step with technological and economic developments. Increased use of new technologies and global services pushes forward the need for simplification for both consumers and traders. We need to join the digital society. Legislation and enforcement must be in keeping with reality. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support the Center Party's reservation 3.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-336	Madam President, I would like In previous debates today, I have touched on the more fundamental reasoning that we Christian Democrats have on tax policy. Taxes are intended to finance the common welfare and public spending we have but also to steer economic development in social and ecological direction. VAT is an important part of the financing of common welfare. Much indicates that in the future it will become an even more important part. With the increased automation that exists in society, taxes on labour will have to become increasingly competitive, in other words lower. It is, of course, something good regardless of automation. However, the need for funding for common welfare, i.e. the police, health care and care for the elderly, will remain. Then VAT, VAT, becomes more important as financing. The Christian Democrats therefore have proposals for generally higher VAT rates. We see that this is something that will be required in the future. Madam President, I would like The VAT system needs to be simplified. Today's system is complicated and bureaucratic. It does not make it easier for entrepreneurs to understand the tax system and be able to do the right thing. A good approach would be to reduce the number of exemptions from the general VAT rate and to adjust the general VAT rate instead. This would also make it easier for the current problems of drawing borders in the VAT system. Madam President, I would like An example of a regulatory framework that is in great need of modernisation and simplification is what affects culture. I love going to concerts. Live music is one of the best things in life. Dancing is not my thing, at least not until late at night. In fact, it's pretty good for the organizer. Like Per Åsling there is today a VAT rate of 6 percent for a gig where the audience sits down. If, on the other hand, the audience dances, VAT is 25 percent. This creates remarkable effects and difficulties in overcoming the costs of certain bordering problems. For example, what happens at a concert if some choose to spontaneously dance when the audience is supposed to sit down and listen? It is, by the way, an infringement that I have committed several times. A review is needed in order to harmonise a regulatory framework that is difficult to understand and whose effects are difficult to predict. Madam President, I would like I naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats in the report. For time winning, I only apply for reservation 4.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-344	Madam President, I would like First of all, I note that Hampus from the Christian Democrats is absolutely right: he does not like to dance at a concert. I've experienced that myself. However, I can rejoice that time not long ago when Hampus and I were at a concert dancing. Then we drank bottled water and not water from the tap. Bottled water has, as you know, lower taxes than water from the tap. Of course, that should not be the case. There are a lot of problems with the different VAT rates we have on different things. The first and perhaps the main problem with this is that we politicians should control people's lives as little as possible. The hard-earned coins that I have in my pocket and that others have in their pockets, we should be allowed to use as much as possible without instruments. When politicians start tampering with VAT rates, it is often quite unclear and difficult to understand. One example that has been and often is in the debate, Madam President, is about concerts. For a regular concert, VAT is 6 percent. If it is a dance band with a dancing audience, VAT will instead be 25 percent. It is obviously unfair and unreasonable. However, since politicians have begun to trixe, tamper and change VAT rates here and there, it is difficult to fix this. If we lower the tax on dance bands to the same tax as it is for concerts, the people who engage in dance performances with music but without live bands will instead be upset. Then we in this House will have to have a dance performance debate instead of a dance band debate. When you start tripping, fluffing and lowering VAT here and there, it will mean that distortions occur and it becomes unclear. Some activities will be located right in the border country and should perhaps be covered by the reduced VAT but do not. This is what happens when politicians try to regulate the sector in detail by industry and by example – as in VAT policy. If you have been to a dance band performance, dance performance with music but without a live band or concert and want to get out of there you might choose to take a taxi. Then VAT is 6%, because it is domestic passenger transport. Instead, if one had chosen to ride dog sleds from the place – the same distance and with the same money already taxed – VAT would have been 25%, because it is no longer about domestic passenger transport without pleasure. This is simply unreasonable, Madam President and friends. I would like to mention one more aspect. Politicians like to take care of their taxes. If you come from a county where there are many dog sleds. Then you might want to lower the dog sleigh. If you come from a county where there are many dance bands, you want to lower the dance band moms. You might come from a county where a lot of people want to go to the Dramatic Theatre. Then you lower the VAT in the theatre. Because this is how different VAT rates open up for excessive lobbying. The VAT rates in Sweden are simply not always based on what is right and reasonable, but on what lobbyist the relevant politicians have recently met and talked to. I am concerned about this and find it unreasonable to use tax money to shoot the tax system with shotguns in a way that makes it incomprehensible, incomprehensible and often too unfair. Of course, VAT must become more uniform and less politicised. It would also open up, as the Christian Democrats said earlier, that this money could be used instead to make tax cuts on, for example, income. This would allow all people to consume more concerts, dance band performances and dance performances and more taxi and dog sled transport. Madam President, I would like It is clear that, in the forthcoming work on tax reform, we need to address this issue again. It is clear that we politicians should stop pushing the VAT system apart and start moving towards a more uniform VAT.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-353	Madam President, I would like Sweden is known for much more than just Abba and Ikea. There are plenty of articles in international media about how Swedes love to pay taxes. It may also seem quite special that the Tax Agency, which is the authority that collects our taxes, ranks much higher than the authorities that pay money to us in the various stages of life. When asked the Swedes themselves, many refer to welfare and solidarity. It is worth paying for a general welfare of high quality and for a redistribution during the different stages of life. Sweden is a country with a high welfare standard that we are proud of. Free education from primary school to university, subsidised preschool for all children, top-class care in the event of illness, security systems when life takes a new turn, police and defence to keep us safe and roads that we can find – all these are just a few examples of the areas that are mainly financed by taxes. The tax-funded common sector creates more jobs, which further boosts growth, and society thrives. We can also steer the tax system in order to redistribute resources between the poor and the rich and between men and women. Through the tax system, we can push forward in the necessary climate change. The guiding principles should be a society characterised by solidarity, equality, equality and sustainability. That is what we Social Democrats choose when we decide. Today we are debating VAT, or VAT, as it is often called. VAT is levied at different rates depending on the product or service consumed. VAT accounts for about 40% of tax revenue and is the most important source of income after income tax. Therefore, changes in VAT cannot be made without reflection. It is important that tax rules are both predictable and easy to apply. In the case of changes in the VAT rules, we have to deal with the EU VAT directive and the Swedish legislation, which is also governed by the EU VAT directive. Several changes have taken place over the years at EU level, and also the Swedish rules have changed several times, which has increased the complexity of the legislation. Of course, we should be ready to simplify the regulatory framework to make it easier for businesses, while always weighing the benefits of simplification against the risk of tax evasion and the need for tax revenue. In order to simplify VAT rules, the Government made the assessment in the 2016 Budget Bill that the VAT Act should be reviewed. The aim is to make it more transparent, simpler and better adapted to the EU VAT Directive. The Government has set up an investigation to be reported by April 2020. In order to modernise and simplify the EU VAT Directive, it has also been decided to simplify it in order to be more business-friendly, simpler and better protected against fraud. With regard to VAT on e-books, in February this year the government submitted a proposal to reduce VAT on e-publicised ions from 25% to 6%, i.e. the same level as for printed newspapers and books. It will create better conditions for the cultural and media industry to adapt to the digital landscape. The VAT reduction is part of the budgetary cooperation between the government parties, the Liberals and the Centre Party. It also follows an EU directive adopted last November. Madam President, I would like In essence, we seem to be relatively united parties in this report. The options underlying today's VAT debate propose, in particular, reduced or abolished taxes on various goods and services. The proposals are not new but have been debated several times before. Even now, we believe that the distinctions between borders are sometimes difficult to explain. However, we do not want to propose changes to the rules at the moment, especially in the case of unfunded tax cuts for which there is no economic scope. And it is not just tax losses that speak in favour of rejecting the motions in the report – any changes in the VAT area always need to be implemented carefully and should not precede the work that is already going on in the EU and in Sweden. I therefore call for all reservations to be rejected.
i-ExfNZkeAEG8pcXsDL6K64k	Madam President, I would like I support the Left Party's reservation in the Sku15 report. The tax reduction for the union fee is one of many equality reforms that the Left Party has achieved and is proud of. We are strongly critical of the fact that the government is now choosing to abolish this important reform. In our opinion, there is no reason to rush this particular tax change. Instead, the issue could have been dealt with in the context of future budgetary processes and the tax reform announced in the January agreement. The Left Party considers the tax reduction to be important for three reasons. Firstly, it contributes to safeguarding the Swedish labour market model, with strong parties taking responsibility for wage formation and the main regulation of conditions on the Swedish labour market. The model has contributed to high real wage increases, few conflict days and a high degree of security for the individual. A well-functioning partner model requires a high degree of organisation of employers and employees. Secondly, it contributes to the creation of equal tax treatment for social partners. Employers can deduct membership fees to employers' associations. Members of trade unions do not have the same possibility. It has created an imbalance between the parties. We consider this to be deeply unfair. Thirdly, it ultimately benefits the development of society as a whole. A strong trade union movement is not only crucial for decent wages and working conditions in the labour market, but is also a cornerstone of efforts to increase equality in society in general. In addition, there is a social work done here, while the trade unions create legitimacy for decisions in the labour market. Madam President, I would like The proposal to abolish the possibility of deducting the cost of the union fee is yet another result of the reactionary disaster budget that the Moderates and Christian Democrats put forward and took the support of the Swedish Democrats to get through. When the distance between these three backward parties is no longer than the distance between them when they sit in this House, these despicable and anti-labour proposals come up. Even the Liberals do not have this in the agreement with the government. But they make up for it by letting 5 out of the 6.3 billion dropped military tax costs go directly to the rich men's pockets. Women in the welfare professions pay the price of the abolished military tax in the form of fewer colleagues and still low wages. Tax cuts for the richest are obviously going well, but the welfare workers with heavy occupations, many of whom are women-dominated, should not even receive tax deductions for the union fee. Instead, they face poorer working conditions. This is how an unequal tax policy is built, and it does not belong in the 2019 Sweden. Madam President, I would like The last time the bourgeoisie abolished the possibility of deducting the cost of the union fee, the conditions of the unemployment fund also deteriorated. Among other things, the contribution to the unemployment fund was significantly increased. That combination of deterioration led to mass exodus from the unions. In two years, the degree of organisation fell sharply. For the unions, recruiting members again posed great challenges. If you now claim to protect the Swedish model, it is of course good strange that you have not learned from what happened last time such a proposal was implemented. The abolition of the tax reduction may lead to fewer people joining a trade union. This, in turn, risks weakening the Swedish labour market model and leads to increased inequality. In addition, a fiscal imbalance between the social partners is created. In view of this, we believe that the tax reduction on trade union contributions should be maintained.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-371	Madam President, I would like My adult life began on June 10, 1974, when I cycled down to Nymölla mill, a large pulp mill in Bromölla, Skåne. There I immediately entered the union, in the paper industry workers' union's section 21. The cashier had an extra wardrobe to perform the administrative duties. That's what it looked like in the late '70s. I've had the Paper Industry Workers' Association as one of my universities. I immediately became interested in the history, development and organization of the League and activated me. I have seen that it was not an easy way to fight for employees' rights. My former comrades in the union who took a conflict in Mackmyra in 1908 for the right to organize themselves, the right to negotiate collectively with the employer, was evicted in the middle of winter into the snow from the mill's dwellings. I can find more such examples and stories in the history of the trade union movement. It was a great step forward when trade unions and employers were able to agree in Saltsjöbaden in 1938 on the right of association and the right to organise, to negotiate and on a duty of peace that applies when the negotiations are made and confirmed. My party, the Social Democratic Party, is a party that stands on the side of employees. Through gradual reforms, the balance of power has changed in the Swedish labour market. During the ten years I worked at the mill, we got the Employment Protection Act and the Trust Act that made it easier for trade union representatives to operate. We got the codecision law. The position of the safety representatives was greatly strengthened, and the work environment took a huge leap forward. It's been important. These have been important reforms. The Social Democrats think it is urgent that there is a balance in the Swedish labour market. The fact that trade union organisations receive a good basis for recruitment by also giving employees the right to deduct their contributions as employers have for their own, we pushed this through. It was removed by the Alliance government. We brought it back. When the alliance government took office, it struck the trade unions with precision by reducing unemployment insurance and increasing self-contribution, thus reducing insurance and, at the same time, making it more expensive. The tax reduction was removed, which led to many leaving the union. Deteriorated unemployment fund, increased self-contribution and higher union fee – it was with precision that the right-wing government targeted its attacks on the Swedish trade union movement. I now note that the collective right-wing parties in the Swedish parliament – the Swedish Democrats, the KD and the Moderates – received their budget bill. Directly anti-employee attitudes are found there. I am not happy to present today a report from a government bill which removes the tax reduction. No Social Democrat would have wished that. We are not pleased about this, but it is out of respect for the Swedish Parliament and an announcement to the government that we are presenting this report and calling for its approval. The report and the budgetary motion illustrate something very important for all employees in our country. There they are, the Swedish Democrats, the KD and the Moderates. Hand in hand, they proudly attack the Swedish trade union movement and Swedish employees. We will remember this.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-380	Madam President, I would like I was going to start with something that I don't think surprises anyone. Here it comes: We Moderates think it should pay better to work! We Moderates stand up for reduced taxes for ordinary wage earners! I know you recognize this. You've heard that before. But it is just as topical, as important and as relevant as ever. All those who get up every morning and go to work and make a contribution, all those who, regardless of the weather and wind, get to their work and contribute to the common, all those who toil and gnaw even if it's not always fun – all of them should have reduced taxes. We Moderates think it is better to reduce taxes on low and middle-income earners. We think it is better that all nurses, truck drivers, police officers and teachers receive reduced taxes. We think it is better than lowering taxes only for those who are in a trade union. Society's resources are limited, and then it is our job as elected representatives to prioritise. Prioritising means that something is highlighted and something has to stand back. We cannot prioritise everything to everyone, as the Left Party, among other things, does. That doesn't make any sense. It's not serious. It's reality-averted. Our mutual tax money has been earned by those who worked together. We politicians must manage them carefully. As everyone knows, lowering taxes for everyone who works also has a beneficial effect on the entire national economy. Reducing taxes on labour contributes to more jobs and increased tax revenues – tax revenues that we can invest in the areas we now see have major problems and challenges. I am thinking mainly of long medical queues, police shortages, increased insecurity and growing exclusion. These are areas that the Social Democratic Government has not managed to tackle. The foundation of our welfare society is work. More people have to work, and it has to be more profitable to work. To then invest in tax deductions for membership rather than reduced taxes for everyone who works is simply the wrong way to go. Madam President, I would like In other words, the fact that we Moderates would rather invest in lower taxes for low- and middle-income earners than in tax deductions for trade union membership is good for society as a whole. But it is also good for the individual. We are convinced that people can, want and will make their own choices – more choices than they do today. We Moderates have always stood up for freedom and the individual against oppression and collectives. We have fought stubbornly for the right to choose, for example, which health centre to go to, who should take care of and help you in the early years and which school your child should attend. These are choices that everyone today takes for granted. That freedom of choice is there because we have conducted the debate and made the right decisions. It is equally obvious to us that you should choose for yourself whether you want to be in a trade union or not. That choice should be made by the individual without the state evaluating one association over another. The state should not subsidise membership in certain associations although the purpose may seem good. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support the proposal in the report of the Committee on Taxation.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-389	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to listen to Jörgen Berglund. To get the full picture, I have a few supplementary questions. Does Jörgen Berglund think that trade unions are good? Do you think it's good to have a high degree of organization? Do you think that there is a balance between labour and capital in the Swedish labour market today? And the fourth question: Are you prepared to remove the right of deduction for service fees to employers' organisations, in line with your attitude towards trade unions?
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-390	I would remind Members that we are not duking each other, but speaking through the President.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-391	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Persson, for the questions. It will be a little funny to hear the honourable Member make a historic exposé over a time that he himself may remember, because some hour later he will note that he will still vote in favour of the proposal put forward by his own government. The big question is really: is it the rhetoric or practice that the Social Democrats communicate to their voters? What's it gonna be? To say one thing in this House is one thing, but voting an hour later is another thing. To answer the honourable Member's question, we think it is good if people are in a trade union – absolutely.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-393	Madam President, I would like Think, it's good if you're in the union," says Jörgen Berglund. It's tremendously magnificent! But he has no comment on the degree of organization. If there is a balance in the Swedish labour market between labour and capital, he also has no comment on, or the unrighteousness of removing the right to tax reduction for employees while employers may deduct their costs of belonging to employers' organisations. Would it not be reasonable, with the rhetoric you use, to say that, in the name of consistency, we should also remove the right to deduct service charges?
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-394	Madam President, I would like We are proud that we prioritise tax reductions for broad professional groups such as nurses, truck drivers, police officers and teachers rather than investing in tax deductions for some who are part of a certain kind of association. It would be very interesting if Mr Persson would also like to explain what the Social Democrats will do this afternoon. We have not seen any reservation, and not any particular opinion. Why is the government now in such a hurry to introduce this particular part of the budget? After all, there are hundreds of other announcements from the last parliamentary term that are waiting, but this went very quickly. I am, of course, happy about that, because it is right to do so. But I believe that the government and the Social Democrats think that this is right. There are other things that are more important, and that is why you put forward the bill.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-396	Madam President, I would like On 16 May last year, we stood here and debated the Government's proposal to reintroduce the tax reduction for trade union fees, and then the Swedish Democrats were the only ones to call for rejection. As we stand here debating the abolition of the re-imposed tax reduction, it is positive that there is a committee majority in favour of our line. Our approach was justified a year ago by the principles of neutrality and uniformity in the tax system and that they should be safeguarded. It can also be justified by the fact that it is contrary to the principle of equal treatment that trade unions receive a tax advantage which does not benefit other types of associations. It is therefore questionable whether the aim of the tax reduction has been to improve the conditions for those who work or whether it is to benefit certain organisations at the expense of other organisations. If we want to improve the conditions for those who work, there are other measures to be taken, such as improvements in unemployment insurance, which we have also proposed. Our position was based a year ago on the fact that the Swedish unemployment insurance system is such that everyone who works and pays taxes is involved in financing unemployment insurance. However, some choose not to pay the fee and are therefore not entitled to unemployment benefit. This may be due to different things. You may not think you can afford it, you may not have a positive view of that particular trade union or you may not be interested in sponsoring a particular political party associated with the union, which is not unusual in the case of LO associations, among other things. Therefore, it should be voluntary and neither benefit nor be disadvantaged by the tax system. The Swedish Democrats believe that there is a need for a proper reform and strengthening of unemployment insurance. It is so central to both the working and the labour market that it should be considered as part of the general social security systems. This means that the unemployment fund would have to be transferred to the Social Insurance Agency and that it should be fully tax-financed. Unemployment insurance should be managed centrally rather than in trade unions, and effective insurance cover should be strengthened. The Swedish Democrats have also proposed that the ceiling in the unemployment fund should be increased to SEK 1,200 per day during the first 100 days, and then decreased to SEK 800 per day. The Swedish Democrats therefore want the so-called financing and other administrative charges, in addition to the unemployment rate itself, to be abolished and taken over by the state. This would result in membership of an unemployment fund being entirely free of charge. We have made proposals on this. It has been included in our budget, and what is associated with costs is fully financed. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the committee's proposal, for the most unusual reason.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-404	Madam President, I would like Last autumn, Parliament decided to approve the Christian Democrats' and Moderates' draft budget, which we put forward as counter-proposals for the transitional government's draft budget. The budget we drew up meant significant reinforcements for many important activities. We invested in shorter care queues, more retirement homes and smaller children's groups in preschool. Our budget involved efforts to strengthen the LSS, the police and the defence. But we also implemented tax reductions for ordinary people by strengthening the employment tax deduction and raising the cut-off point for government tax and by reducing taxes for pensioners. In short, we introduced reduced taxes for everyone who works and for everyone who has worked – more money in his wallet because the Parliament decided to adopt our draft budget. We Christian Democrats, like the previous speaker from the Moderates, believe that lower taxation on labour is generally preferable to a tax reduction based on being a member of an association. That is why we have chosen to prioritise broad tax reductions for everyone in society before the tax reduction that we are discussing today, and that is why we took the initiative in our draft budget to remove the reduction. The fact that last year the Red-Green Government chose to introduce this tax reduction also says something about its priorities and why it is wrong that this government should now remain in office. Although the medical queues and queues for child psychiatry grew and despite the lack of police officers, to name but a few examples, the government chose to introduce the tax reduction for union fees. No, Madam President, Sweden would have needed a government that had made other priorities. I am pleased that the Christian Democrats' and Moderates' budget won approval in Parliament last autumn and that it helps to make priorities a little better. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-409	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the other Members here who are working on fiscal policy, because this is the last debate on taxation today. I think we've had a fun morning together. When I said this, I went a little through the President anyway, but I think it was a fairly uncontroversial message. Madam President, I would like I am in many ways an extremist of the Swedish model. I think it is good that the social partners rather than politicians decide how the labour market should be organised. It is basically based on freedom of organisation and contractual freedom, which are two of the most fundamental freedoms we as citizens have in a society. We have the right to organise ourselves as we please and with whom we want, and we have the right to conclude whatever agreements we want. Nevertheless, the smallest part of the labour market must be the individual shareholder, the individual enterprising person or the individual worker. Freedom of contract applies both to the freedom to join a trade union or to choose not to join a trade union. Both are equally an exercise of freedom of organisation and freedom of contract. I am sceptical about reducing the fees for membership of trade unions. It is not because I dislike trade unions – on the contrary, I think trade unions are often good and do very good work, just as many other associations are good and do good work. There are many other associations that you can instead spend your money on being a member of. Madam President, I would like I simply think that there are good associations that work with both one and the other, and it has to be everyone – employees or employers – free to organise themselves in the association you think is the best. Then you should also retain your money to use your freedom of contract and your freedom of organisation in the way you want. In addition to abolishing the tax reduction on trade union contributions, we also want to reduce the tax on workers and entrepreneurs. If you get reduced taxes, you can use the money you get left to join a trade union or some other association that is good. If you do not think that trade unions are good, there has been a question here in the speaker's chair. Yes, but it is quite irrelevant whether trade unions are good or not. The point is that there are associations of all kinds that are good, but politicians should not make that assessment. It must be up to the individual citizen or worker. In the market, where companies operate, which is the other side of a negotiation, you also sometimes find that there are fewer customers, just as the trade unions sometimes feel that there are fewer members. It is about fewer people wanting to use the company's services or less wanting to join one's trade union. On the market, companies know what to do. They can update their service, make a better product or lower the price of what they sell. With the logic that tax reduction would lead to more membership of trade unions, it should also follow that if trade unions were to reduce their contributions, they could have more members. It's just like you can lower the price of a product to get more customers. This is what the tax reduction has meant. Perhaps it could be an idea for LO not to give 30 million to the Social Democrats' election fund, but instead to spend money on lower fees, so that more workers choose to organise themselves? Perhaps it would be an idea for the Social Democrats as a party, instead of in this House pushing for the state to govern people's choice of organisation, to say to LO, with whom they have long been closely linked: do not give us the 30 million, but lower the fee for workers, so that more people organize themselves! Perhaps it would be an idea not to use the state's monopoly of violence but to use its own influence over an organisation that is very close? Madam President, I would like This is a good proposal. We should lower the tax on people so that they can choose to organise themselves. We should not be directing people's choices as to how they use freedom of organisation.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-420	Madam President, I would like It has now been ten years since the Act on Signalling came into force. It was one of Parliament's most controversial and controversial decisions ever. It was preceded by massive campaigns and demonstrations, not least out here in Mint Square, when the decision was taken in the spring of 2008. Some have even compared the decision to the creation of a surveillance society that brought to mind George Orwell's book in 1984. These fears have not come true, as we can see in the report we are debating today. In 2017, Siun, the State's inspection for the defence intelligence activities, which is the current audit year, has carried out 27 reviews to protect personal integrity during signal intelligence. Signal reconnaissance must only be directed at external threats and international terrorism. You can't follow communications within the country, I might add. Siun, after his 27 reviews, has nothing to remind or criticise about the activities of the FRA. Madam President, I would like There is reason to feel both pride and security in the design of Swedish signal reconnaissance for at least two reasons. First of all, personal integrity was strengthened, not weakened, when the Signal Search Act was introduced in 2009. The Defence Intelligence Court, Siun and the FRA Privacy Council have all contributed to this. What happened was that we were regulating the area, and it was needed. Security and intelligence services must also be transparent. It is one of the most important guiding principles for democracies. Secondly, there is also reason to feel both pride and security in view of the very strong competence of the FRA in the field of signalling. Sweden is internationally prominent in this area. It strengthens our security. The signal reconnaissance activities carried out in Sweden continue to save lives both in Sweden and abroad. Madam President, I would like Having said that, the conditions for signal reconnaissance must be continuously adapted to the threat picture in our surrounding world. We Moderates therefore believe that it is now time to review the signal reconnaissance law, ten years after its introduction. Above all, more authorities need to have access to signal intelligence – not just the National Operations Department, Säpo, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Government Office, as it is today. I do not think there is anyone in this House who believes that we have a safer world in 2019 than we had in 2009. Unfortunately, the threats have increased and above all become more multidimensional. The world simply looks different. In 2009 no one knew what hybrid threats were. Concepts such as troll factories and small green men were associated with Christmas times. And in 2009 we didn't have to worry about election influences, information operations, disinformation or propaganda. And cybersecurity issues were in 2009 at best a C point on the Defence Committee's agenda. Those days are over. Today, MSB is dealing with many of the threats that exist in the grey area between total peace and total war. We Moderates therefore believe that MSB must be given the opportunity to focus signal reconnaissance, just as KBM had previously. We are not alone in this. MSB itself made a request to the government in March 2018 to focus signal reconnaissance. This request is based on strong reasons, if you want to protect Sweden's security and Swedish interests. Firstly, it is necessary to handle disinformation operations directed against Sweden. We know that they have increased in strength and scale in recent years. Secondly, it is necessary to protect civilian personnel that we send out in international operations. MSB has about 100 people in international operations. They are often in a very dangerous and demanding operating environment, and they often have less protection than the soldiers we send out in international operations. Thirdly, it is necessary to strengthen MSB's ability to prevent and manage cyber attacks on socially important activities and critical infrastructure. Cybersecurity in my world is about one thing. It is about securing Sweden's prosperity. If you want to be really good at it, Madam President, you have to have access to intelligence from signal intelligence when working on cyber security. To conclude, Madam President, I regret that no more parties than the Liberals and Christian Democrats supported the Moderates' motion in this regard. I wish that they had heeded MSB's appeal to have access to signal intelligence. I think it would have been good for Sweden's security and for protecting Swedish interests. I therefore request the approval of Amendment No 3.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-434	Madam President, I would like We are in favour of our reservation in this paragraph. Swedish signal reconnaissance is an important component in the protection of national security. I'm sure we all share that view. All such reconnaissance is carried out in a constant balancing act – it is a matter of safeguarding the integrity of the individual citizen, and it is a matter of national security. To this end, there is something called Siun, which has just been touched upon. Siun is doing his job. You can read in the lyrics that they have done a good job and participate in this. But somehow I think there is a lack of parliamentary support. None of you have been involved in this in previous years. There are five Members and two who have to have a background of judgements – there are therefore a total of seven. We have asked you year after year: why do you not support the proposal to extend this so that all parliamentary parties have a representative here? You say no. And this afternoon you will also be voting against the motion. It is extremely strange, I think, that you do not share the view that all parties should have transparency. Then we could report to, in our case, just over 1.1 million voters what it really is like, what is going on in Siun and whether they are doing their job. You'll say no to that. We therefore propose in the motion that this should be extended so that each party can be represented. Members are nominated for four years. It is also stated in the documents that Members should be replaced. As far as I know, you do. You replace them with someone else from the same party. I understand that you do. Why are you doing this? Yes, you do so that everyone can have a good insight. Why, then, do you say no to the fact that all parties should have a place? That is my question, and I return to it every year.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-440	Madam President, I would like Yes, the order of not having all eight parties in all the transparency councils is not unique to Siun. On the contrary, it is common that not all parties are involved. I myself am a member of the Legal Aid Board and the Criminal Damage Compensation Board. There are only certain parties there. I believe that it is not primarily representative of party political interests but of Parliament as an institution. But I would like to ask Richtoff why he is not willing to allow MSB to focus signal intelligence to, for example, deal with the increased disinformation operations directed at Sweden. Then I wonder if he shares the view that the hybrid threats have increased in strength and extent and that they have mainly come from the east, from Russia. I think that the Prime Minister in spring 2018 had a good article in Dagens Nyheter where he pointed out that Russia is conducting information operations and that Russia should refrain from interfering in the Swedish election movement. But Roger Richtoff often claims that Sweden has one for Russia's critical line. Then I wonder: Which parts of the Swedish Russia policy is it that Richtoff does not support? Was it wrong for the government to criticise that a Su-27 plane was only 30 metres from our signal reconnaissance plane? Is it wrong that we stand up for Ukraine? Is it wrong that we support human rights activists? I am not trying to put opinions on Roger Richtoff that he does not have, but I think it is important that we get clarification on the Russian policy of the Swedish Democrats. We are also defending broad agreements in the area of security and defence policy.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-445	Madam President, I would like The honourable Member, I think, is basing his argument on a lie or an untruth. It cannot be said that we do not have a Russia-critical attitude. Then one wonders whether I do not believe that this is true, Madam President. Both in the EU and in other contexts, it is clear that everything else is fiction. We are in favour of and very often participate in sanctions against Russia. But I have said this in this House before. On many occasions in the European Union and also in these decisions, Madam President, a package is being put in. There are many different parts of that package. It could be a record that means further criticism of Russia, Madam President. Then you can either say yes or no to the whole package, because of course you don't want to pull that record out of the big package. That is why we often say 'no' to this in Europe. Because that's not true. I share the view that this is an increased threat. With regard to the motion you have written, I can say that we are also working on developing a motion on this issue. We do not feel that the exercise is bad in any way, but we feel that we can do one even better, and we will soon be done with it. I will get back to you on this. Then we'll see. The Moderates now ask why we do not support the motion. Then my question is, why don't you talk to us? Why don't you sit down with us and say: We have a motion here. The honourable Member should. He should tell us: Here's what we're thinking, and here's what we're gonna do. But he doesn't. But he is happy to stand here and ask: ‘ Why do you not support the exercise?
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-449	Madam President, I would like I note that this is not the first time that the Swedish Democrats have supported a motion from the Moderates. We have no problem explaining our positions, whether it is the Left Party or the Swedish Democrats who ask. Please ask the question! Then we should be happy to explain how we have thought. On the other hand, we are not willing to sit down with you and negotiate, for example, Russia's policy. I welcome Roger Richtoff's statement that there are no nuances in Russia's policy. But I noted that in his last speech, when we debated defence policy, he said that a small and military non-aligned country cannot conduct a Russian policy such as he thought Sweden does. I am of the opinion that a shovel should be called a shovel in security policy, too, and that some form of evasion does not pay off, especially in relation to Russia. That is why I would like Mr Richtoff to explain in detail what positions we have taken – which, in a fairly broad political consensus in the rest of Parliament, have taken on Russia's policy – which the Swedish Democrats do not agree with. We understand that these are nuances, but I wonder: What positions?
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-452	Madam President, I would like Today, therefore, we are debating the protection of privacy when signaling in defence intelligence activities. But here everything refers to something completely different. Requesting me to explain in detail, in two minutes' reply, how we stand on these various issues is not credible, Madam President. That's completely unreasonable. However, on one occasion in this House, I have handed over to the Center Party how we have voted in the European Parliament. I can produce a new copy, and you can see in detail how we voted there. I received it from our representative Peter Lundgren in connection with that debate. Sweden is a non-aligned country, and it also means having to deal with such a situation. We are critical, and we are participating in the sanctions against Russia. Finland, for example, is critical of Russia, but they talk to each other, and Finland invites Putin. Sweden would never do that, and I am not saying that we should do it either. Finland as an non-aligned country has another way of dealing, and indirectly the honourable Member is here criticising the non-aligned Finland: how do they dare to talk to them? I think you should reconsider this paragraph a little bit. Not that we should not be critical, but do not look with indirect contempt at Finland for having a different approach! In Russian newspapers it is clear that Finland is critical.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-457	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a report on the protection of privacy in signalling in defence intelligence activities. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 3. What we are referring to in this reservation is the need for a review of the signal reconnaissance law. The Act entered into force ten years ago and strengthened the protection of personal privacy. Over time, it has turned out that we need to modify it as the world around us has changed and evolved. As has been pointed out here before, we are living in a much tougher security policy situation today than ten years ago, and intelligence is a very important part of our defence. The FRA is doing a good job, but it is important to review and ensure that the legislation we have is appropriate. That is precisely why, Madam President, we see that there is reason for this revision of the legislation. What we say in the reservation is as follows: a possibility of targeting signal reconnaissance would e.g. strengthen and streamline the Swedish Civil Protection Agency (MSB)'s ability to contribute to systematic security work to avert risks for Swedish civil personnel operating internationally. MSB also needs to be able to identify impact operations and strengthen its cyber security capabilities. The Security Service (Säpo) and the National Operations Department (Noa) of the Police Authority also have a need to have increased access to information from signal intelligence in defence intelligence activities. The current legislation provides, for example, for: Säpo no longer consults the data from the signal search when they have started a preliminary investigation. It is not reasonable that the FRA cannot provide further information about concrete threats to Sweden to Säpo in such situations, we believe. An investigation has already eluded the question of the access of Sapus and Noah to signal reconnaissance. It presented its proposals in August 2018. For these reasons, we suggest that the Government should have a review of the law on signal intelligence in defence intelligence activities in order to deal with the obvious shortcomings that exist and better adapt the needs due to the deteriorating security policy environment in which Sweden finds itself. .....................................................
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-463	Madam President, I would like Some of us remember the debates in 2008-2009. It was in many ways memorable debates, one might say. However, I am pleased that we had them, and I think that the security policy developments that have been in those ten years still underline the correctness of the decision taken by Parliament when the Signaling Act was introduced. Already in 2008 in the summer, the Centre for Justice notified the European Court of Human Rights. There was then a comprehensive judicial review of our legislation, and I am pleased to note that the European Court of Human Rights also believes that the Signaling Act is not in conflict with the Convention on Human Rights in Europe. Some years Siun has had comments against the FRA. Then the critics of the legislation have knocked down and said: Look how many errors they commit! Other years, Madam President, no criticism has been found, for example during the year that has just passed away. At that time there were 27 different inspections and no comments at any time. Those who are critical of the legislation have said: Look, the control does not work! They don't report anything wrong! Now ten years have passed with this legislation, and I, like Pål Jonson, believe that there are reasons, not least in the light of the security policy situation, to make a more general review of the legislation. Some minor shortcomings have been addressed and the legislation has been supplemented over these years. But the wide-ranging review has not taken place. It may not be just about São's access to orientation or, for the most part, about MSB and the connection to our civilian efforts abroad. There are also other total defence authorities that have a legitimate and, I believe, a legitimate need to focus. These include, for example, the Inspection of Strategic Products and possibly also the Swedish Defence Research Institute. However, this can only be clarified in the context of a public investigation, and I now think it is high time that such an investigation came into place. I note that Roger Richtoff confirms that, as he puts it, there are records in the sanctions and criticism policy against Russia which the Swedish Democrats do not support. I also have the impression, Madam President, that Roger Richtoff thinks it would be positive and reasonable to invite President Putin here to Stockholm. I'll take him that way. The recurring criticism from the Swedish Democrats that you do not get a seat in Siun has a few years on your neck now. My answer every year to Roger Richtoff and his predecessor in the post of the Committee on Defence has been that the Swedish Democrats are not large enough. Blocks are formed when we choose different bodies in the state administration, and so far the size of the Swedish democrats is not justified by their own strength that one can enter such a committee. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 3.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-470	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats are therefore not large enough. Before Allan Widman takes those words in his mouth, a little modesty would have been appropriate. But I'm leaving this. To be clear, it is not misunderstood: we do not intend to pursue a foreign policy of inviting Vladimir Putin. On the other hand, I compared with Finland, which is also non-aligned but has a different policy, and we would like to join a defence alliance with Finland in the long term. Well, it was about that policy. As far as this record is concerned, so that it is not misunderstood, I think that if you look at certain decisions made in the EU you can see that there have been very many different parts. One of the records has been, to an increasing extent or otherwise, a sanction against Russia, for example. Then we have to take a position on the whole package because we cannot lift a sanction. It follows that on certain occasions, as I have said before, we have voted against a package.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-474	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct to note from Roger Richtoff that the Liberals are a very small party in this House today. Consequently, we also have no place in Siun. I have started to read about the European Union, Madam President. Parliament has extensive committee work, just as we have in Parliament. As far as I know, there is the possibility of supplementing, amending and adjusting the proposals on which Parliament is to vote. That's why it sounds a little hollow when Roger Richtoff claims he has to choose everything or refrain. I don't think that's the case, but it matters less. On the substance of the matter, Roger Richtoff reaffirms in his criticism that there are elements of the sanctions policy that Sweden and the EU stand for which the Swedish Democrats do not support. That is the only reasonable conclusion you can draw.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-476	Madam President, I would like That is a correct description, namely that we do not support everything for the reasons I stated. The package was more important. There are many individual subjects, but in many cases we are in favour of sanctions against Russia. That's it. I can include the list I submitted to the Center Party in a debate, Madam President, which shows that the claim that we consistently say no to sanctions against Russia is mere fiction. I left that list for the Center Party in this Chamber. I joked a little bit and meant that they think it's fun to look at the list. That's it. In terms of size, I still think that all parliamentary parties should be part of the group. It is very important to have democratic transparency, regardless of whether the party has 4.5 or 10% of the seats. Everyone's gonna be there, and everyone's gonna be transparent. We are working on the questions, and we will come back to this paragraph. It would be good if we could have a greater community and, as the Moderate Representative said earlier, work something together. There's gonna be more strength. Now there are various exercises in the exercise booklet that affect each other. Where is the consensus we could have?
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-480	Madam President, I would like For the sake of television listeners, it is important to point out that all the motions and motions put forward in this House are fully accessible to all parties. They are the subject of long discussions during the preparatory work in the committees. There have been so many opportunities to share in the exercise. In the election movement did Roger Richtoff's party leader Jimmie Åkesson Putin on the question Passports. That comment appears in an increasingly explained light. Roger Richtoff is not now in a position to respond to what I am saying, but on another occasion I would like to know what is inappropriate in the criticisms or in the sanctions against Russia. What is it in the criticisms and in the sanctions that have been implemented that are not in line with the Swedish Democrats' view of Russia? Roger Richtoff will later be guilty of the answer.
i-M6tZApVxctEAnc9btdo5zK	Madam President, I would like The Government shall report once a year the review of the activities carried out under the Act on Signalling in Defence Intelligence. In accordance with Parliament's earlier announcements, the Government submitted a letter to the Riksdag on 6 December 2018. By amendments to the Signal Scanning Act, which entered into force on 1 December 2009, signal reconnaissance was permitted only according to the direction of the Government, Government Office and the Swedish Armed Forces. This meant, for example, that the Strategic Product Inspection was no longer allowed to focus FRA's defence intelligence signaling activities. The committee has previously considered that it would be justified to carry out an in-depth monitoring of the consequences of the legislation within a few years. The Committee on Defence also noted in a previous position that the Government considered that there may be a need for an in-depth follow-up of the consequences of the legislation on, among other things, the privacy of individuals. In March 2018, the Swedish Parliament announced to the government that the government should review the possibilities to give the Inspection for Strategic Products the right to focus signal intelligence from the FRA. The Committee on Defence has considered that it is a long process with many considerations that must be behind decisions to change the signal intelligence law and the structure as a whole for the operation. The government's preparation of the announcement is therefore awaited as well as the government's continued work on the basis of the recent legislative referral, which is based on the proposals in the investigation. At the moment, the Committee on Defence believes that there is no reason to propose any further measures to change the signal intelligence law or to review the structure of the operation as a whole. I therefore support the proposal in the Committee on Defence's report.
i-SNYu4kqX1RMzzVjp5w3sTk	Madam President, I would like The subject of this Committee on Culture's debate is Swedish cultural heritage policy expressed in a considerable number of motions brought by the members of the Riksdag during the general period of exercise. Art and culture are inclusive, dynamic, changing, urban, open and accommodating. They are therefore also our cultural heritage. Cultural heritage issues engage and affect, which they should do and are quite natural. Cultural heritage consists of what previous generations have created and how we today perceive, interpret and pass on. Cultural heritage is cohesive and educational but far from static, but it is something that is constantly changing and reformulated – which should be central to how we in a democracy view cultural heritage. The only boundaries that cultural heritage sets are those who want to shut out and define one or the other expression as more pure, genuine or exclusive. In the hands of non-democratic phenomena, organisations and countries, cultural heritage issues are a very potent weapon. We could see this in the redrafting of Russian history and its cultural heritage by the Soviet Union at the time, as well as the use of art, culture and cultural heritage for the political purposes of the dictatorship. Today's North Korea is another clear example. A clear example from our own history is how we viewed the Sami cultural heritage 60-70 years ago – with threads to date. In the 30s to 40s we can see the one-eyed view of the Swedish expressed politically, academically and religiously in racial biology and assimilation. The journey in view of cultural heritage from then until now is also a journey in our own development of democracy. Today, the Sami cultural heritage is recognised as an inalienable part of our entire nation's cultural heritage and is the focus of great efforts for its preservation and development. How cultural heritage is used as a weapon can be seen today also in the destruction of historic buildings, objects or religious sites that hopefully soon defeated ISIS has systematically devoted itself to deleting the people's cultural heritage, history and roots in order to divide and rule. It is therefore extremely important to stand up for openness, nurture the legacy of previous generations and take responsibility for those who live here today and for those who will be our future. Cultural heritage is in this context a foundation that creates security in a world that is now anything but secure. For this we all have a great responsibility. Madam President, I would like The Committee on Culture's motion for a resolution deals with many different motions which deal with many important subjects. This is the question of cultural heritage – it is broad. However, I choose to focus on the exercise on the role of museums as independent institutions that we Moderates have brought about, as well as the specific opinion on the eel coast that we have given. Madam President, I would like Sweden's museums are important for learning and learning as well as as as managers of cultural heritage and history. We Moderates attach the utmost importance to the role of museums as independent institutions. The museum's activities will be characterised by knowledge building and a high level of competence in each subject area. Publicly funded cultural institutions, such as museums, should not be politicised or governed by ideological pointers. They should, of course, be based on a democratic basis, but the content should to a large extent be kept free. Current political trends should not govern which plays or exhibitions are carried out. Excessive political governance aligns culture and ultimately renders it uninteresting. Madam President, I would like The Moderates want to include all museums – state, association, foundations, county museums, private and private – in the long-term work with Sweden's museums. We are a little concerned that museum policy has had one that we see the one-sided focus on the state museums and their task. Rather, there is a need for a broader, inclusive policy that focuses on the general conditions of the museum system and on increased collaboration between different museums. Government museums should also be able to hand over, for example, objects as gifts to all museums, regardless of their principal. The Moderates want to enable our state museums to reach more groups across the country. In this respect, for example, cooperation between schools and museums should be a priority. Digital technology also gives museums completely new opportunities to reach out regardless of the day or time of the day. Therefore, museums should be given good opportunities to work with digitalisation, for example by providing opportunities for skills development and exchange of experience. Madam President, I would like I turn to the specific opinion that we have given together with the Centre Party and the Liberals. It is expressed in two movements, 1881 and 2823, about the eel fishing culture along the Gulf of Hanö, which also includes my county of Blekinge. The eel fishing culture along the Gulf of Hanö is unique in terms of language and traditions, customs, inherited knowledge and generational formation. The eel fishing itself is regulated by age rights, which is a system with roots in the time when southern Sweden – Skåne, Blekinge and Halland – was Danish and the fishing was of great economic interest. This regulation comes from that time. Old age rights, i.e. the exclusive right to fish eel in a particular area, still count as immovable property, with title and property tax. Along the coast we have so-called eel sheds, which make up the place for the eels where it is eaten not only eel but also singing, music and storytelling tradition take a big place. Since 2015, eel fishing has been listed as a Swedish intangible cultural heritage. The very thing about intellectual property is extremely interesting; it is not about objects, it is about traditions, stories and the like. This is set out in the Unesco Convention on Intangible Cultural Heritage. For us, this means that Sweden must ensure that the cultural heritage remains alive. For several reasons, however, eel culture is threatened. These include the regulations on the transfer of old-age rights, international fishing that estimates the eel stocks and obsolete hydroelectric power plants. The intangible cultural heritage shows us where we come from and gives us an anchor in the world in which we live. They are worth protecting and preserving for posterity. Having said that, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 7.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-502	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating what has made us all who we are: heritage and the environment, the basis on which we stand and the roots of which we are still a living part. It is about the fantastic forms of Swedish cultural heritage and the tools and means we have to care for, manage and convey this to future generations – in arm hook with the non-profit forces and institutions around our country that keep it alive. They keep it alive when the creators are no longer available and our political responsibility and stewardship are taking on. It is here that our ability to care for the heritage that has been left in our hands is being tested, and it is here that our ability to preserve, use and develop the forms of cultural heritage for present and future generations is at its head. No society, no group and especially no democracy have functioned without some kind of concern and sense for the common past in a community of thought. In our Swedish model of cultural policy, we as decision-makers can set goals and allocate resources and allocate and prioritise efforts we see as a priority. Too long, too often and too insensitive, a somewhat condescending and critical attitude has marked a small but loud crowd's attitude towards all of us who see the cultural heritage field as a special priority. In times when norm criticism has become the norm and when gender education, power analysis, postcolonial theories and relativization of the ideals of education have become the rule rather than the exception in too many parts of the cultural sphere, our sources, memories and artifacts are one of the last things we have left to manage and convey on a factual basis. The Agency for Cultural Analysis has noted that the debate on the conditions for obtaining funding has become too politically coloured in the cultural sector just recently. This makes it necessary to investigate the politicisation of cultural life, it points out. Historically, the Social Democrats have stressed the relationship between culture and the peoples' movements, the bourgeoisie and the institutions. Since the Environmental Party took over the leadership at the Ministry of Culture, signals of norm criticism, power analysis and identity policy have been guiding and seeping downwards in the cultural policy road network. Cultural heritage, which the general public expects us to prioritise, has been treated somewhat rigidly for decades. From the time the digs were sent to Klara Quarter and the demolition wave pulled over the country during the 50s and 60s and up to the cultural heritage bill during the previous term, contours and key symbols that gave rise to both the Swedish image and our self-image have been gradually deleted, eroded and to some extent replaced with indifference and even problematisation of whether we have any Swedish cultural heritage at all. The question in itself is not new, but it has walked and illustrated Swedish literature history since at least the 18th century. Nevertheless, the question — or statement — is unfounded. Inheritance, environment and tradition are certainly not static, solidified or locked in fixed structures or in time and space. However, the composition of these parts is unique for each nation, so also for the Swedish through our collective and living language, our memories and our cultural and natural environments. It is captured in the Swedish literary treasure and song tax, as well as in the camera lens's sharpness in pictures by Sune Jonsson, Lars Lerin or Peter Gerdehag. It shows our relationship to our built environment, to fields, forests and meadows, pets and seasons. This in turn has developed one of our biggest cultural political scenes, i.e. the dining table and meal culture. This also applies to crafts and communication, house bodies and bed buds. We are simply products of our environment, and our surroundings are products of us in the unique and distinctive landscape that we have shaped and that has shaped us and our mentality and spiritual cultivation, as well as the special position of Christianity and the Church in Sweden for a thousand years. Sweden is yet another predominantly Christian country, and law and custom are based on this. Values and social codes are cheap in this common compass and starting point. The Church of Sweden stands to some extent still in the middle of the village, physically and mentally, and is for many the only cultural scene left when other actors have retreated in many areas. This year is a control station for the state's collaboration with the church regarding the church antiquarian compensation and the overall care and management of our common cultural and church history heritage. It is our largest collective cultural heritage, but it is threatened – partly by rapidly declining revenues within the Church of Sweden and partly by the lack of a comprehensive national strategy for the long-term management between the state and the church. I think this is urgent. For some time now, therefore, the Swedish Democrats have been exercising for a national strategy and an action plan for churches that are at risk of being decommissioned or have already been decommissioned. To this the other parties say no, without further justification what I have been able to see. It is clear to me that it is time for action. Madam President, I would like Action is also needed in relation to the local community. The national objectives of the cultural environment area stipulate that work on the cultural environment should promote a holistic approach to the management of the landscape, which means that the cultural environment is taken into account in the development of society. That is not always the reality today – quite the opposite. Reports around the country show that non-profit citizens' initiatives are required, where the struggle to save cultural history and architectural values is hard and not always successful. The Swedish Democrats see the value of cultural considerations and cultural planning where new buildings can harmonize with older houses and where history can remain and be seen as a resource. In the interests of the protection of the cultural environment, a targeted incentive contribution to antiquarian skills in the municipalities is required; many reports have shown this. The red list of endangered, distorted and fulfilled environments needs to turn into a green list, and cultural heritage needs to be seen as a development resource and not a burden. But we need to provide the right support and resources from our level. Madam President, I would like Words are no longer enough; political will is needed. Perhaps it is precisely the one missing from the other parties. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office recently reviewed the work with security in the central government museums' collections and has noted the following: inadequate traceability, inadequate measures against theft and vandalism, inadequate emergency preparedness and the need for developed support from the National Antiquarie Office as the relevant state authority. It is also noted that museums generally have a good knowledge of needs but have difficulties in managing and responding to them. It concerns the inventory and registration of objects, but it also concerns security. The Swedish Democrats budget annually – since years ago – for a government fund from which the museum sector in the whole country can apply for means-tested funds. The Swedish Democrats are also budgeting for an increased grant to the National Heritage Office and for a number of initiatives that we now get a receipt of are necessary. Each year, the majority of committees reject these ambitions and turn a blind eye to needs. It is now high time to open our eyes and ears – it is our duty to the previous and the offspring. It is also high time to see the whole of Sweden, not just state museums in Stockholm. Finally, Madam President, the report we are debating today contains a battery of proposals, reforms, efforts and attention to the overall Swedish and international cultural heritage that the Swedish Democrats would like to see, and I call on them to be read. We support all our reservations, but I call for the winning approval of reservations 4 and 11.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-520	Madam President, I would like For the Center Party it is self-evident that all children and young people, regardless of economic conditions and regardless of where they live or what functional conditions they have, should be able to take part in the state culture. It is therefore, of course, important that culture is made available throughout the country. From the Center Party, for example, we want to invest in increasing the accessibility of state museums throughout the country through, for example, digitalisation and exhibitions on tour. It is, of course, desirable and is in the commission of museums to make their collections accessible and to spread knowledge and knowledge about both history, present and future. There are nationally interesting and important cultural heritage in many parts of our country. State responsibility for cultural heritage and our history must therefore not remain at the border of the big city. For us in the Center Party, it is also not just about the cultural heritage of state institutions, but at least as much about the close cultural heritage of the whole country – the cultural heritage that is often cared for by regions and municipalities. But it is perhaps even more – and even more so – about the cultural heritage that is nurtured and shown by civil society and by private individuals. For example, there are many museums and homesteads run by associations or foundations, but there are also those run by private individuals. We must also see many of the cultural heritage that exists around our country as an opportunity to be part of the development of the region and of the society in which it is found. Cultural heritage exists all over our country – cultural heritage that is worth preserving and highlighting. But we need to be better at also highlighting important cultural heritage on a national level, including those that are not in Stockholm's direct vicinity. Cultural heritage can be clearly linked to a specific geographical location, such as the Kingdom of Crystal in Småland. The glass and its manufacture is an important cultural heritage for Sweden, both as utility objects and as art objects. The initiative at Glasriket will be an opportunity to both preserve and highlight the cultural heritage of glass and its industry is and at the same time to develop the Småland region – and really the whole of Sweden – to see the opportunity to market Sweden also on an international level. In short, there is potential throughout the country, and there is considerable competence in the field of cultural heritage across the country. At the same time, much national expertise today lies in the big cities, and most importantly in our capital city. Much of the knowledge that exists in the country should be shared by more people. Madam President, I would like The mobile cultural heritage involves many people in our country. It could be a moped, a tractor or maybe that car you dreamed of as a child. It may be a steam engine or an aircraft of historical value. It could be a sailboat from the last turn of the century, when the 19th century became the 20th century, or perhaps a plastic boat from the 1970s. The common thing is that these are vehicles that have been used and that have transported people and goods around our country. They are the bearers of history from a time when our society became increasingly mobile. Every weekend – well, almost every everyday evening during the bright season – there are events around our country where the moving cultural heritage is recognised and not least used. Many people spend much of their leisure time preserving these jewels, which tell us an important part of our history to posterity. They talk about a time when Sweden became increasingly mobile and mobile and how society and people formed themselves after this mobility. For the most part, it is voluntary forces that renovate the cars, boats and airplanes and run museum railways and museums for these jewels. At the same time, this creates jobs and entrepreneurship in many different ways. It is about the sale of spare parts, about mechanics and about workshops and boat yards with specialist knowledge. Not least, it is about tourist destinations that generate both trade, restaurant visits and hotel overnight stays. All of this is often created in small towns and in rural areas. In addition to the important preservation of the mobile cultural heritage, it is therefore part of a living countryside and an opportunity for the whole country to live. But this work has not always received the appreciation it is worth. There are examples where political decisions and regulatory interpretations by authorities have been obstacles and where cultural heritage objects have even been lost. In order to preserve the mobile cultural heritage, it needs to be used and developed. It is part of our history that would disappear if not all the non-profit forces existed. Madam President, I would like In connection with the handling of the cultural heritage bill almost two years ago, the Parliament decided on an announcement concerning the moving cultural heritage. The announcement said that the government would urgently produce legislation establishing the responsibilities and responsibilities of the authorities for historical means of transport by land, sea and air so that they can ensure, in the exercise of their authority, that the mobile cultural heritage is not deliberately or unintentionally prevented from being used, damaged or even destroyed. As a result of this announcement by the Swedish Parliament's Board of Governors, the Government issued a commission, via the regulation letter for 2018, to investigate and present the conditions for legislation to protect the mobile cultural heritage. The report of the National Antiquities Office is now ready. It is a solid, readable and important work that has been done. Perhaps the most important thing is the proposal to strengthen the protection of the mobile cultural heritage and to include a rule of consideration in the Cultural Environment Act. The purpose of the rule of account is for authorities to take into account precisely the interest in preserving and using historical means of transport. The report also contains a summary of all the rules and regulations which currently present difficulties and difficulties in preserving and using the mobile cultural heritage, the historical means of transport. Now it remains for the government, as it stated in the announcement here from the Riksdag two years ago, to quickly deal with the proposal from the National Heritage Office. I assume, then, that it will be handled in a positive way, because every day there is a risk that invaluable cultural heritage will be wasted because the laws, rules and regulations that authorities have to relate to and interpret do not protect or provide the conditions for preserving the mobile cultural heritage. Madam President, I would like Cultural heritage is not just what I mentioned here in my speech. It's much wider than that. For example, I have not mentioned much of the intangible cultural heritage, such as folk music, key harp and dance, or Alarvet on the Åla coast, which Annic Engblom so eloquently mentioned in his speech. I would like to refer here to the joint special opinion of the Center Party, the Moderates and the Liberals. Madam President, I would like There is no time for me to address all the aspects of cultural heritage that I would have liked, but I have to choose to stay here.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-540	Madam President, I would like Then I'll take this opportunity to give Per Lodenius a little more time. In fact, I was close to pressing the assent button, because there was not much I could disagree with in Mr Lodenius's speech. On the other hand, I'm going to ask you a few questions. For example, Per Lodenius mentions that cultural heritage exists throughout our country and that we should be proud and satisfied with it. I think everyone can sign that. He also says that civil and non-profit forces should be recognised, that we should support the initiatives they take and thank them very much. We're really gonna do that. But then some questions also open up. We know that conservation of the cultural environment is lagging behind in large parts of the country outside the metropolitan regions. There is a lack of muscle and resources to create new cultural reserves where both the tourism industry and the municipality or non-profit civil forces want to do this to highlight an unicity or a characteristic that is built-in. The funds are too small to do that. There is also a lack of a broader and more general state fund for museums in the country that are foundation-driven, municipal or county museums-like to seek funds from in order to close gaps in their own operations. We have proposals to increase the funding for the creation of new cultural reserves and to set up a fund for open museums throughout the country. But we also have a proposal to set up a cultural heritage-ROT so that private property owners and others in the country can apply for funds to restore cultural historical environments if you have costly craft or environmental costs. These are reforms that the Swedish Democrats are pursuing and that would benefit cultural heritage associations, local communities associations, etc. The Center Party has said no to these, but does it have any ambition to push matters in this direction further in its forthcoming negotiations with the government?
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-547	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Aron Emilsson, for the questions! I have to answer the questions a little more generally, because there were many details in Aron Emilsson's questions. As far as cultural reserves are concerned, if I understood the question correctly, I do not know whether reservations are always the right thing to do in this case. What it is all about is how to preserve each individual cultural heritage in its own way. Then you have to look from the unicity. This may include, for example, the use of the mobile cultural heritage but also the use of fixed cultural heritage for something other than what they originally were for. It can be a way to care for them and make sure they remain. As I said in my speech, cultural heritage could be part of a tourism industry or in some other way lift a region. I do not believe in a general fund to apply from, because then you have to control what the money is to be used for. I believe more in more general and open municipal and regional grants. From the Center Party, we also want to see the state take responsibility for cultural heritage more broadly and not only for the state museums in Stockholm City, for example. There are many cultural heritages throughout our country that could have state protection, such as the Kingdom of Crystal, which I mentioned in my speech. We in the Center Party work very much with these parts. But I do not really see that the proposals of the Swedish Democrats offer the same protection and opportunities. That is not the way that we in the Center Party think is the right way to go.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-551	Madam President, I would like Then I hear that there is still some sort of innate will and ambition from the Center Party, which in previous years has fought a lot for the decadent city and country hand in hand, the whole of Sweden will live and so on. Per Lodenius thinks that the state should take greater responsibility for the cultural heritage sector outside the major cities, Stockholm, if I interpreted it correctly, and that should be done in different ways by the state. Then the obvious question arises: How? We cannot read this in the Centre Party's draft budget on Category 17 or in some government initiatives, as I have seen. Lodenius also calls for more general grants for municipalities to be able to meet both citizens' requirements and demands for cultural environmental considerations in the Planning and Construction Act, the Road Act, the Railway Act and whatever it may be. In the Swedish democratic draft budget we have general funds and contributions. We also have targeted support for municipalities to be able to apply for antiquarian expertise, if the county boards are not enough to assist municipalities in exploiting, establishing new detailed plans, outline plans and the like. Many municipalities lack absolutely necessary basic cultural environmental competence or antiquarian competence. Either the municipality is too small with too little recruitment base or you do not have the resources at all to devote to this. Here is an incentive proposal from the Swedish Democrats which the Center Party also says no to. The question still arises, what you want to see instead, because there is not much to read about this in the Center Party's draft budget.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-556	Madam President, I would like Aron Emilsson talks about will and ambition. I would like to say that the Center Party is doing a solid job and is actually the guarantor that the whole country will be able to live. When it comes to responsibility for cultural heritage outside the city, we show in several different parts how we want to work with it. One example is how we want to develop the cultural co-operation model into a national cultural co-operation model. The whole country should therefore be able to influence national cultural policies, and the cultural heritage should also be included. As far as the budget is concerned, it was a transitional budget that came last autumn. To this we have made a simpler budget statement. We come back with more solid budget work, now also in cooperation with the government. There we will have a lot of discussions and demand that the cultural heritage, along with everything else, be able to live the whole country, be given the support and help it needs. I do not want to say that this is about general support for the whole country in terms of cultural heritage, but it is about finding what is of national interest that the state should operate. Then the regions and municipalities will work through, among other things, the cultural cooperation model in order to preserve cultural heritage for posterity.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-559	Madam President, I would like Culture can be seen as an interpretation of us, our time, our past and our visions. The interpreter sets the tone of the public conversation. Museums and archives are populous institutions and bearers of our cultural heritage. They are institutions for our collective memory and arenas for cultural meetings and forms of expression. History, and therefore cultural heritage, is an indispensable part of cultural policy and our understanding of who we are and in what contexts we belong. Of course, how we interpret cultural heritage depends on the prevailing state of knowledge, and this state of knowledge depends on how critically we are prepared to view our collections. What is saved, why and by whom? What has not been considered important enough to save? I visited the Institute for Languages and People's Memories the other week and found out about some of the fantastic archives for dialects, personal names and local names in Uppsala. Among other things, there is a collection of medieval personal names. For those who, like Aron Emilsson and the Swedish Democrats, do not want to see the benefits of norm criticism, it is easy to conclude that such a collection gives us a comprehensive picture of what people were called during the Middle Ages. But when we learn that the sources are largely economic documents written by men of the higher classes, the picture becomes different. By making class, gender and ethnicity visible and how it has played a role throughout the ages, we get a more complete picture of our history. Let me point out that this does not mean a relativisation of knowledge. Museums and archives, using modern technology, should be made open, dynamic cultural and research centres for both today's and tomorrow's visitors. They should encourage professional research on our history but also encourage and support initiatives by groups of ordinary locals, associations and school classes seeking their, their community and their society history. No entrance or course fees may prevent people from participating in that work or from taking part in what the museums have to offer. Digitalisation gives institutions new opportunities to work in new ways and meet new target groups. Madam President, I would like A central issue when we talk about accessibility is of course also the location of museums. A reading of the exercises we are discussing today gives us a little insight into the breadth of museums, collections and cultural heritage environments around our country. Behind many of the movements there is a desire to secure state support for a regional, municipal or private activity. I believe that in most cases there is an important point in maintaining a breadth of ownership and direction. The best way to combine local influence and commitment with strong funding is many times through the model of cultural cooperation, which we have debated many times in this House. Now, however, the state must show that there are economic muscles in the model and make a proper economic list. The county administrative boards also need increased resources to support the preservation of important cultural environments. That is why I am choosing today to support the committee's proposal for a decision rejecting the motions that have been made in this area. Madam President, I would like The Left Party chooses to highlight a proposal for synagogues to receive a remuneration similar to the church antiquarian compensation. It is a recognition that the religious buildings of our national minorities are also part of our common cultural heritage. The history of the Swedish Jews gives a long historical perspective on religious establishment and diversity in Sweden. Jews have settled in Sweden from the late 1600s. At first, however, they had to convert to Christianity. Among other things, the 1686 Church Act required that they should be baptized in order to live in the country. In the 1770s the king allowed Jews to come to Sweden without converting. However, according to the so-called Jewish regulations of 1782, they were only allowed to settle in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Norrköping and Karlskrona. They were not allowed to marry non-Jews and not to testify in court. It took nearly a hundred more years, until 1870, for the Jews to have similar civil rights as all other citizens of Sweden. But it was only at the turn of the century 1900 that they were entitled to public health care. In the mid 1800s came a wave of Jewish immigration. The background was difficult Jewish persecutions in Eastern Europe, especially in Tsarryssland. Hundreds of thousands of Jews traveled west. Of them, approximately 4,000 people stayed in Sweden. During the period until the outbreak of the war in 1939, Sweden received about 3,000 Jews from Germany, among others. There was a relatively small number, due to a restrictive refugee policy. It's a real disgrace in our history. During the war years, however, a large proportion of the Danish and Norwegian Jews were able to seek refuge in Sweden, and through various actions, including by the Swedish Red Cross during the final phase of the war in 1945 and shortly thereafter, about 11 000 – 13 000 Jewish concentration camp prisoners could be transported to Sweden. Madam President, I would like There are now seven synagogues in Sweden, three of which are located in Stockholm, two in Gothenburg and two in Malmö. There is also a synagogue in Norrköping without activity. There are also smaller Jewish associations in several localities in the country. It is estimated that there are 20 000 Jews in Sweden, but only 7 000 are associated with a congregation. It's not a coercion anymore. Synagogues, like other buildings that have a high cultural historical value or are part of a settlement area with a particularly high cultural historical value, can be explained as a building memorial by the County Administrative Board. However, there is a lack of specific regulation in the Cultural Environment Act for synagogues, which we refer to in our exercise. There is also no possibility to apply for compensation equivalent to the church antiquarian for the care and maintenance of synagogues – this despite the fact that the Swedish synagogues are part of our cultural heritage and that many of them possess great cultural historical values, something that is obvious to those who take part in the history of the Swedish Jews and synagogues. That is why I support the motion by the Left Party and our Amendment No 6 in the report.
i-3fDsLA2yCYutXcCy2oFKhi	Madam President, I would like I support the Christian Democrats' reservations Nos 12 and 19. We are therefore debating cultural heritage, which has become a policy area of its own. It is about material and intangible cultural heritage. Let me first give a little historical look back. I have worked quite a few years as a history teacher and find it interesting to study what it is that has shaped us and our society. Let me take this opportunity to thank Vasiliki Tsouplaki for addressing the history and situation of the Jews, which was very fine. In the Swedish cultural heritage there are strong threads back, not only to Lutheran work ethic but also to the desire for consensus. Trust is sometimes called Nordic gold, and it sits deep. Honesty, duty and responsibility are the identity values of everyone in society. The Institute for Languages and Folk Memories, Isof, works in the field of cultural heritage to increase, liven up and spread knowledge of languages, dialects, names, folk memories and other intangible cultural heritage in Sweden. Is this a political issue? Yes, of course, if by means of government and protective laws we can help to preserve something that would otherwise slowly disappear from people's minds. A renewed cultural heritage policy is more important than ever so that the common cultural heritage becomes a concern for all, and the public dialogue is broadened and deepened. Madam President, I would like We have been in this debate in both North Korea and the Soviet Union. We have also been in the Sami culture. Annicka Engblom lifted this up. We have also moved in the moving cultural heritage with Per Lodenius and so on. Let me take this down to another level. I grew up on an island outside Gothenburg called Öckerö. In the old days, which for me is about growing up in the 50s and 60s, there were some originals left. It was men and women who were a little original and special but who were included in society. A woman named Rita Karolén has written in dialect about these originals. In this way, some of the cultural heritage on Öckerö is preserved, which would otherwise have faded away and been forgotten by the citizens there. I'm going to read a poem by Rita Karolén in Bohuslän dialect so that you get a picture of how it can still sound out on Öckerö. It's about a guy named Rickard, or Recart, as we call him. It sounds like this: Reckart had turned 84, a rekti islander, I can tell you that. He drives with moped from Norrgård tea end up. But then the police came and asked him to stay. They said he had to wear a helmet. Yeah, well, Reckart said, it's going to go. So the next time he came to tea, he had the war helmet on when the police said stop! Well, that's what we're talking about. The police said you can't wear that helmet. It is not approved and not at all good. He didn't believe what they said. He swara: If it is approved for world war, then it will be good enough to run the tea too.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-583	Madam President, I would like We in the Committee on Culture have visited the Museum of Performing Arts in Stockholm. I have since been there on two occasions and can recommend it. Please bring children! They like the interactive on offer at the museum. There are musical instruments from the past and present. There are theatre clothes and old stage models from theatrical productions. I mention this because museums play an important role in preserving both the material and the intangible cultural heritage. The Art Museum is an example of how you can work creatively and interactively with music, theatre, dance and other culture. We in the Christian Democrats and other parties have, in various rounds here in Parliament, debated how the government instituted free admission in state museums during the previous term of office. We've been and we're critical. I look forward to the Swedish National Audit Office's review of the free-entry reform. The National Museum, to which we have spoken and visited, has, as far as I understand, not made the reform go together financially. Madam President, I would like What values have society built upon that made it a good society to live in? What intangible cultural heritage has affected and still affects us? Because when you think about it, we live in a wonderful country that we have inherited from our fathers. We can talk about sowing and harvesting. For those who built the land, there was much striving and sometimes even hunger. We live in a time of harvesting what has been sown by previous generations with hard work but also good basic values such as honesty and credibility. Among other things, there have been norms that have helped people to become part of a context, feel belonging and have a role. Normer is a word that sometimes gets to dress shots to be conservative and backward. Professor Lindbeck Assar was interviewed a short time ago in the journal Research & Progress on standards. He said: Norms are important everywhere, for two reasons, both because they have consequences for human behaviour and that they act as limitations on our behaviour. A normless society would be a terrible society. Authorities and laws are not enough to control our behaviour. Therefore, standards are important. Norms can be changed by examples that are spread or by norm creators such as parents and schools. He was asked: Have you heard the word norm criticism? He replied: Yes, but I haven't understood the meaning. Norms are very important. A normless society is not a pleasant society. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democratic ideology involves the idea of stewardship. The meaning is that each generation is obliged to manage what was left to it by previous generations and then pass it on to the next. Knowledge of their own cultural heritage, materially or intellectually, gives people security in their identity. This is necessary for us to be able to meet and respect the cultures and traditions of others. Cultural heritage is constantly changing and arises in the encounter between the old and the new. By forming cultural heritage in interaction with the outside world, it also becomes an important tool in the fight against racism and xenophobia. A culture that protects diversity is a prerequisite for positive integration. Protecting and nurturing the common cultural heritage is therefore a key element of Christian Democratic cultural policy. This should be done through active awareness and disclosure of values. Now I want you to listen, because here are some very beautiful expressions. They are found, among other things, in the primary school curriculum, under the first paragraph on values. There you can read these amazing expressions about what holds us together. It is an active transmission of values: the inviolability of human life, the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all people, equality between women and men and solidarity with the weak and vulnerable. This is what has built and holds our society together. Those are beautiful expressions. I want to end this way: Culture keeps communities together and creates the conditions for a good society. In line with the curriculum of primary school, with the ethics administered by Christian tradition and Western humanism, this is done through the education of the individual to a sense of justice, generosity, tolerance and responsibility.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-593	Madam President, I would like What is a cultural heritage? This question is not simply to be answered. There are, implicitly, further questions on this issue. What is not a cultural heritage? Who has the power to define what cultural heritage is? Madam President, I would like The report of the Committee on Culture's 2018/ 19:KRU7, which we are now debating, concerns subjects that are close to my heart. The report deals with 58 requests from 48 motions from the general period of exercise dealing with cultural heritage issues. The report contains 21 reservations and a separate opinion. The reservations are about museum issues, church antiquarian issues and questions about intellectual cultural heritage and also ancient monuments. Cultural heritage is a hugely broad area and a very important one, because cultural heritage is something that we all carry with us, no matter who we are and where we come from. We owe the cultural heritage we have today to the cultural creators of previous generations, and the cultural creators who live and work today create cultural heritage for future generations. Cultural heritage is constantly changing, so the perception of what is a cultural heritage changes over time. Cultural heritage reflects how we have developed and lived in the place on earth that is Sweden. Sweden is a very special country, and we who live here have a lot that unites us but also many parts that separate us. We live in an elongated country, and the conditions for people to live, live and work in the different parts of the country differ a great deal. Therefore, it is particularly important that we have a broad view of what Sweden's cultural heritage is, so that it becomes the core that unites us. For me as a social democrat, it is important that cultural heritage unites us and not divide us. Nor should we believe that national boundaries divide us people into having completely different cultural heritage. Many of the cultural heritage we have we share with our neighbours, and other cultural heritage is created by people moving to our country. This has been the case ever since the ice sheet began to melt away 10,000 years ago. Cultural exchanges with the outside world are ongoing. Over the centuries, the influences have been mixed and become our common society. Cultural heritage consists of common traditions, destinies and notions but also tells of battles and class conflicts, abundance and poverty, oppression and struggle for liberation and common welfare. In order to increase the understanding of different cultures and cultural heritage, and to strengthen the links between them, it is necessary to promote cultural exchanges between individuals, social classes and groups. We will jointly create culture and stories that bind us together and create a better society in the world. Cultural heritage is expressed in stories about our history, in material and intangible remains and collections, in architecture, in literature, in art, theatre, dance and songs through the centuries. Cultural heritage must be handled professionally and with a critical review approach. For us Social Democrats it is a fundamental cultural policy task to make past culture and art present and alive. Madam President, I would like Cultural heritage issues have in recent years been raised to become a policy area of their own. In 2017, it was debated and decided on the first cultural heritage bill ever presented in the Swedish Parliament. It included priorities for a renewed cultural heritage policy in order to develop and benefit the whole of society. In the same year, in August 2017, the new Museum Act entered into force. The law defines what a museum is and contains a specific provision on the independent status of museums in relation to the political decision-making level. The overall goal of museums is to promote knowledge, cultural experiences and free opinion formation. A few weeks ago I had the privilege of visiting Folk och Kultur i Eskilstuna, which is a fair that brings together cultural practitioners, cultural workers, cultural interested and cultural politicians from all over Sweden and also some from the Nordic region. There the Museum Act was highlighted as something that is very good for the museums. Some of the points highlighted were precisely the definition of what a museum is, the clarification of independence and the assignment as a collective manager. Madam President, I would like Do you know that in museums in the country there are at least 100 million objects collected? The museums play a central role in the management of our cultural heritage, but also in the development of it as research is also an important part of the museum's activities. My home county Västerbotten is part of Sápmi. In 1950 - 1951 archaeological excavations were carried out at Gamma Square in Lycksele. At that time 25 skulls were dug up at the old marketplace, where Sami had been buried during most of the 1600s and 1700s. These human remains were sent to the Museum of Historical Investigations. There they were long forgotten. It would take 66 years for them to return to Västerbotten, and now they are at Västerbottens museum in Umeå. On 9 August, on the International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples, these human remains are to be repatriated, that is, again buried in their original resting place. It is the biggest repatriation ever in Sweden's history. This return affects a large part of the South Sami and Umesame areas and the relatives who today are scattered far beyond Lycksele areas. Repatriation involves reconciliation work, settling with a painful past. The question is whether it is people or research materials that we are talking about. Aren't the dead owned by the living people who know who they were? Lycksele Sameförening, Lycksele kommun, the Swedish Church, Sametinget, Västerbottens museum and museum in Lycksele are now working together to make this ceremony respectful and dignified. Sami history is an important part of the cultural heritage of Västerbotten, Sweden and Sápmi. Last week I visited the two-day cultural policy summit during the Sami week in Umeå. There, several of the participants highlighted the importance of the inhabitants of Sweden and other countries that are part of Sápmi having to learn about the indigenous people of Sami and their history. They are not an exotic part of Sweden and Sweden's history. They are a major part of Sweden's cultural heritage. Madam President, I would like We must also be aware that cultural heritage issues and concepts can be used to divide rather than unite. We see how there are forces in our society that use our very cultural heritage to spread hatred and xenophobia and that try to kidnap our cultural heritage and make it something that represents a Sweden that is so far removed from the democratic values that make our country what it is today. They try to use our common cultural heritage to define who is Swedish and who is not. Cultural heritage has been used in various times for narrow, sometimes extreme, political purposes, such as glorification of kingship and authority or selected races. Only selected parts of the cultural heritage have been highlighted. Such limited aims are constantly in danger of being revived and must be actively prevented and combated. Cultural heritage authorities must not be used to cater for short-term party political interests, special interests or trends. With the help of our cultural heritage, we will instead create stories and a common image of Sweden for everyone who lives here. It may look a little different depending on where in the country you live, but it is still our common story. Cultural heritage will contribute to people's sense of community. Madam President, I would like The report contains a number of reservations from the other parties. Many of them are thoughtful and have a good sense of spirit. However, there is already ongoing work in the field of many of these reservations. Madam President, I would like With these words, I call for approval of the Committee on Culture's proposal for a decision and for the rejection of all motions and reservations.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-611	Madam President, I would like SEK 11 million to the Institute for Languages and Folk Memories, SEK 64 million to the National Heritage Office, SEK 440 million to church antiquarian compensation, SEK 160 million to a new cultural heritage ROT, SEK 100 million to a cultural heritage fund, SEK 140 million to open museums, SEK 50 million to stimulate cultural environment and skills in municipalities. These are some of the needs-tested efforts that the Swedish Democrats are proposing, but which the Social Democrats consistently urge to reject. Rather, the Social Democratic draft state budget is gaping empty when it comes to actions in the field of cultural heritage. I hear a lot of good will from Åsa Karlsson, and I hear a lot of insight and insight into what would be needed in the field of cultural heritage. But this is not found in Social Democratic politics. Åsa Karlsson mentions that it is difficult to define what cultural heritage is. I'll admit it is. As I mentioned in my speech, it is not static, rigid and locked in outline, nations and so on. But there are compositions of cultural heritage that make us already today, and also in the Social Democratic budget, still allocate resources to the Institute for Language and People's Memories, to the National Heritage Office, to the National Archives, etc., which are precisely cultural heritage authorities, because we as a nation have realised that we have cultural heritage that is worth prioritising. So we have defined and defined in order to be able to allocate funds. How does Åsa Karlsson view this question? If we cannot define something that we as a nation should prioritise, how can we allocate and prioritise funds?
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-614	Madam President, I would like Cultural heritage is a very broad spectrum. It may involve a great many different things, as several of the speakers have highlighted earlier today. It can be intellectual heritage, places, buildings, architecture, art and so on. For us, it is very important that we can invest in all aspects of the cultural heritage. As Aron Emilsson says, cultural heritage is something that is not static but changing over time. Now we are ruling on an M-KD budget that SD supported in the Riksdag. In that budget, there are cuts in Category 17 of the Committee on Culture. When we come up with a spring amending budget in the future, we hope that we can at least correct some of those elements.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-616	Madam President, I would like Åsa Karlsson says once again that the Social Democrats want to invest in all parts. It is to some extent impossible when we have about 15 billion to allocate to all our processing areas. Therefore, definitions, priorities, redeployments, re-priorities etc. are still taking place. Statskontoret, the Swedish National Audit Office, the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis and Civil Society have all shown that there are current, highlighted special needs that we as a nation somewhere must go in and guarantee. You can't bet on everything. But it is possible to focus on selected and prioritised actions. These efforts and needs are reflected in their absence even in the Social Democratic budgets that have been presented before the transitional and M-KD budgets for many years for decades. In practice, some funding for cultural heritage has been reduced. They have not been listed after inflation, price and wage conversions and so on. We in the Swedish Democrats voted in favour of our own budget in the first place and in the second place on the M-KD budget. There were efforts by the Red-Green Government that are doubtful, whether they were entitled to invest in only 17 state museums in the metropolitan areas, or if you want to see the whole country, for example. Madam President, I would like I would like to answer a few questions about an important part that Åsa Karlsson mentions. This concerns efforts on Sami culture, language and education. I can only agree with the significance of that. Here we have investments where we invest, for example, in the South Sami centre Gaaltije. We have initiatives for a new national language and cultural centre for Sápmi. We have initiatives at the Sami International Film Institute in Kautokeino that Norway would like Sweden to co-finance. But even these efforts are rejected by the Social Democrats. What do you want?
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-621	Madam President, I would like Politics is precisely about priorities. Being a politician means setting priorities. That's it. We Social Democrats want to see the whole country live. One should be able to live, live and work throughout the country and thereby also be able to take part in culture throughout the country. There we have said that as soon as possible we want to see free entrance even to the county museums, for example. We also invest in the country. The question of the Sami is very worthy. The Sami have been treated very badly throughout history in Sweden. In the Sami week of the cultural political days, this issue was raised very much. We must begin to highlight the situation of the Sami people and make sure that the people of Sweden become more aware of the situation of the Sami people. It can be done in many different ways. It is not the state alone that is responsible for these issues. A large part of these issues also lie in the regions and municipalities. There we must work together and help each other together.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-625	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the report by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport on cultural heritage issues. We live in a time characterised by existential issues of identity, tradition, heritage and culture. What do we have to remember? What must we not forget? What voices of the past should we highlight? We recently celebrated International Women's Day. Every time I go through the Women's Room in Parliament, I feel joy and pride. It is important to talk about our female pioneers and role models in politics. Because it was no more than 100 years ago that the long struggle for the right to vote led to women finally having the right to vote and being eligible for parliamentary elections. In January 1922, the first women were admitted to the newly elected parliament. Today, I am one more in the long chain of women who have taken their place in Parliament and continue to fight for equality and a better world for all. Madam President, I would like What is the cultural heritage? In the broad cultural heritage policy bill initiated by the Green Party in government, the concept was described as traces and expressions from the past attributed to value and used in the present. Cultural heritage can contribute to community and create an understanding of society's development, our culture and our history, but can also be the starting point for criticism of different societal patterns. Knowledge and familiarity with cultural heritage is also a matter of education. It is the collections of the institutions, our common cultural treasures, the languages and ways of life of individuals, civil society and its traditions, and many other things that together form the cultural heritage. How cultural heritage is more specifically defined is not a matter for politicians. Rather, it is defined by how it is perceived and used. To the extent that it needs to be defined and defined, it must be done by the profession and research. The policy will create an organisational framework and finance the cultural heritage institutions, while the expertise will be responsible for the management of the cultural heritage. The institutions shall be free from political influence. I am very proud of the new Museum Act, which has been adopted during the last parliamentary term. It establishes the independence of museums from politics and formalises the principle of arm's length. The law also strengthens the status of museums as knowledge institutions. This is central to the Green Party. Cultural heritage should be interpreted and reinterpreted throughout time as new knowledge is added. This does not mean that cultural heritage is volatile or arbitrary. On the contrary, cultural heritage must be reinterpreted with humility on the basis of the knowledge available at any given moment. What is being done today can be cultural heritage tomorrow. That is why the culture that is being created today must be carefully managed so that it can benefit new generations. We believe that cultural heritage is a general concern that should be made available to people. Therefore, museums and cultural heritage institutions must be spread throughout the country. Collaboration between museums will be developed so that resources within the public museum system can benefit people throughout the country. We also want loans and exchanges between institutions to be facilitated. I call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-635	Madam President, I would like At SVT, a documentary about how Sweden was once populated is now being broadcast. There are also other TV programmes and other television channels; you should be careful to say that. But this is amazing in that it describes how the ice about 13,000 years ago withdrew from Sweden, and people began to populate this part of the world. Some came from the south and started hunting deer into the country and then settled here. Suddenly, the people who came from the north and the east and who also sought new lands and populated Sweden met. After a while, a gang came from around the place where Turkey is today and taught us here to use the land and become farmers. A few thousand years later, a gang came from the Ukrainian steppe and populated Sweden. The traces that remain of all this human mobility that have taken place in the geography that we today call Sweden are the cultural heritage we have to manage. This is how it has continued. People have come here, settled here and met other civilizations. They have been challenged, married to others, had children together and then continued to develop this amazing country into what we have today. The result is some form of cultural heritage that is intertwined with our surrounding world but is still unique with us with our combination of it all. Our mission is to manage the part of the human heritage that is right here, where we are right now. Some of it we have forgotten, and others we have a desire to preserve. We have a search for the new that we do together. This is what we today call Swedish cultural heritage. Caring for this cultural heritage means preserving knowledge, ideas, objects and environments that reflect the people who have lived here during the time that Sweden has existed. As part of the central educational institutions, the role of museums is more important today than ever. The task is to inform, not to raise. It is about helping our memory, but also about helping us understand ourselves and who we are. It is about preserving and promoting what people in this country have created together throughout all time. The museums shall acquire, preserve and promote their collections. They will also help us interpret them. But they're not supposed to put things right. They're supposed to let ourselves understand. We have been critical from the Liberals to much of the past term's museum policy with, for example, merged museums. It is quite good that there is a variety of voices also in the interpretation, and the specific nature of museums should therefore be properly protected. They should be allowed to fertilize one another rather than to merge them. Madam President, I would like Stories control our thoughts. Cultural heritage has often acquired a special position in terms of keeping a country together and creating a community. Sometimes this thought has gone so far as to try to stop other people from thinking freely. Those who own the stories – media, cultural heritage, museums, research and education – are also those who formulate what is allowed to be thought in a country. There's a mighty force here. It can be used positively, but it can also be used very negatively. We have seen in history, and we have seen around the world, how people have tried to use the power of cultural heritage to shape their own history. But there is not just one story, and there is not only one interpretation. That is why the diversity of voices is so important, and that is why it is so important that we as politicians keep an arm's length away from how this should be interpreted. Madam President, I would like The power of the stories also explains the destruction of cultural heritage that takes place around the world where every totalitarian regime tries to gain power. Today we are thinking, above all, of the destruction in Syria that Isis has caused – this terrorist organisation that has destroyed the common human cultural heritage in a way that is absolutely terrible. It is also a loss to all mankind. This crime, Madam President, is so serious that I think that Sweden and the Swedish Government should prioritise it. I want the government to work internationally to hold the terrorist organisation accountable, and I want support for archaeologists to be increased. That is why I am in favour of reservation 9.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-645	Madam President, I would like Since I have already given my speech, I would just like to make it clear that I am in favour of the Christian Democrats' reservations Nos 12 and 18.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-646	Madam President, I would like Each of us as citizens should be able to be sure that Swedish authorities, whether at home or abroad, are working to ensure that everything goes right. Any suspicion that this does not happen should be taken very seriously. Education, continuous training and prevention are important tools for strengthening trust and respect for the functions of society. Transparency, awareness and a strong commitment are three concepts to be taken on board. Today, the Constitutional Committee's report is being discussed on the basis of the Government's letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the protection against irregularities in migration activities in the foreign authorities. The letter is a review of the measures the government has taken in this area, both those that were in progress before the Swedish National Audit Office began its review and those that have been dealt with in connection with it. More than half of Sweden's foreign authorities in the form of embassies and consulates have migration activities that handle applications for visas and residence permits in Sweden. These are the ones involved in the review. The reviews are welcomed by the Government, which in its letter describes the measures taken and the ongoing work being done to strengthen protection against irregularities or other abuse of status. I call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the follow-up motion to be rejected. Madam President, I would like It may be appropriate to point out to the Government's letter that protection against irregularities is generally effective. An increased number of migration cases and thus an increased burden on missions, as well as – as can be noted – more variations in irregularities mean that the external administration is constantly reviewing and further strengthening its procedures. The aim is precisely to strengthen the efforts to ensure that individuals, some of whom are locally employed and recruited, are exploited or end up in situations where, for their own benefit, they benefit from their position. The Swedish National Audit Office notes, on the one hand, that there is a risk that the authorities will be subject to pressure and, on the other hand, that the number of notifications of irregularities at the authorities continuously increased between 2014 and 2017. The review takes up these years, but it should be stressed that signals have also taken place in the past, already in 2010, and that the measures actually taken by the current government are clear steps forward. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the division of responsibilities between the actors responsible for the foreign authorities has sometimes been unclear. There has also been a lack of sufficient requirements for internal governance. In a Moderate motion, the Moderates point out that control procedures need to be significantly strengthened for the handling of migration cases in foreign authorities and that further effort should be put on ex-post controls and investigations. I can also note specific comments from the Swedish Democrats and the Centre Party, which would like to emphasise further the importance of highlighting this. As I see it, this is satisfied with the work going on in the Government Office. Madam President, I would like Both the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Social Security Committee, where questions about the Migration Agency belong, have been given the opportunity to submit opinions. The Committee on Foreign Affairs notes that legal certainty, efficient handling and a good service are very important for all foreign citizens who want to come to Sweden to live with their family, work, study, visit business contacts, be a tourist or visit family and friends. It is important for this to work well. The opinion states that the external administration is constantly reviewing and further strengthening its procedures. The Social Security Committee, for its part, refers to the fact that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has, in recent years, taken a series of measures aimed at strengthening the work of detecting irregularities and also emphasises the work of the government in this area. The Government generally shares the Swedish National Audit Office's observations, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has initiated work to ensure that protection against irregularities is immediately strengthened. Measures have also been taken before the audit was carried out. The Government agrees with the assessment that the role of the Migration Agency in investigations at the foreign authorities needs to be clarified. Therefore, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Finnish Immigration Service have decided on a consultation document on how to deal with suspected irregularities. The work is progressing in a manner that I can understand well-ordered and fully acceptable. An up-to-date note from last year shows that in 2018, 69 000 residence permits and more than 250 000 visa applications were handled by the foreign authorities. In total, 34 notifications of suspected irregularities were received in the year. Of these, the suspected irregularities were proven in two cases, and in one case the suspicions are still being investigated. The work can only be done to eliminate the fact that such cases occur at all. However, the trend shows that the measures have had the intended effect. The continuing priority of work is of great importance. Madam President, I would like In this context, I can also mention a written question I have recently put to the Minister for Civil Affairs regarding training in anti-corruption work on the basis of an announcement from the Constitutional Committee issued by Parliament last spring. There are answers received today, and this provides further reports on the broad work initiated by the government to ensure that confidence in state employees and state institutions remains strong and undistorted. Statskontoret has, after the Government's mission, created a government network against corruption. Within the network, some 230 authorities participate in a competence-enhancing process for learning and exchange of experience. Publications A whistleblower function – considerations and practical advice and A culture against corruption has been developed. In order to return to the foreign authorities, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has also decided on what they call ethical guidelines for foreign service. These guidelines apply to all posted agents of the foreign authorities, regardless of their principal. They shall also guide local staff. Honorary consuls are also expected to take into account what is said in them. Moreover, these guidelines, which were developed in 2018, replace the previous guidelines introduced in 2012. Transparency and continuous monitoring of the regulatory framework are of course of great importance, and on the basis of the letter we have today to take a position on, it is a continuous work for continued trust, respect for and security with the functions of society.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-663	Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's report Protection against irregularities in migration activities in the foreign authorities shows that there have been several serious deficiencies in this activity. Many of the risk analyses have not been of sufficient quality. Unauthorised staff have had access to sensitive IT systems. Risks of irregularity in booking interview times have been detected. There has been a risk of irregularities in the handling of migration cases due to a lack of rules and support as regards the control procedures that should be in place. Local staff have lacked knowledge of, or been poorly trained in, how to deal with irregularities. Finally, the Swedish National Audit Office notes that the control of the migration activities of the foreign authorities has been so poor and so little so that it has not helped to detect irregularities. It is therefore impossible to determine whether the low number of notifications of irregularities is due to the substandard nature of the checks. In the worst-case scenario, there may have been for a long time a number of irregularities and widespread corruption in the foreign authorities, due to the fact that there has been no real possibility of detecting errors in the handling of migration cases. It appears likely that much more irregularities could have been detected and reported if the procedures and conditions had been better. Overall, the high number of deficiencies has very likely damaged confidence in the migration activities of the foreign authorities. As the committee points out, however, it can be noted that the government largely followed the recommendations of the Swedish National Audit Office and started to take several proposed measures. Although we perceive some of these measures as somewhat unclear, we believe that the measures currently being taken need to be evaluated before Parliament takes the initiative for further action. Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats take very seriously the information that has come to light and have also submitted a request to the Constitutional Committee to examine the government's handling of the irregularities in the migration activities of the foreign authorities. However, based on the information we have at present, it is difficult to assess whether further measures are needed than those proposed by the Swedish National Audit Office or how the results of recently started measures will be achieved. We therefore prefer to review in the upcoming autumn review how the government's governance of the foreign authorities works, with a particular focus on issues related to irregularities, routines and governance. It will then be clearer whether the measures now under way have or will have the desired effect. It will also be easier to assess what additional measures are needed to address the problems. In order not to interfere with the measures initiated, we believe it is important that they should be put in place and their effects evaluated before new measures are proposed. Therefore, we would like to wait to propose further measures to address the problems raised by the Swedish National Audit Office.
i-4Bw1V9VDFbg7r7Ev37Uvk4	Madam President, I would like As we are now debating the Government's letter on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the protection against irregularities in the immigration services of the foreign authorities, I would like to begin by welcoming the audit carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office and the measures taken by the Government in connection with it. It is a thorough review carried out by the Swedish National Audit Office, which draws attention to serious shortcomings, risks and vulnerabilities in the migration operations of the foreign authorities. It is therefore very important that these shortcomings, risks and vulnerabilities are addressed and addressed. It is therefore gratifying that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when the Swedish National Audit Office began the review, actually began work to take many steps to remedy the errors and shortcomings that have been discovered. Madam President, I would like Today, 60 foreign authorities, i.e. embassies and consulates, handle migration activities. This is a large number, given that 60 of Sweden's approximately 100 foreign authorities carry out such activities. The Swedish National Audit Office's report describes in a good way how vulnerable and thus risk-exposed to irregularities these activities are with thin staffing, local employees with varying training, posted on short duty and lack of continuity, high workload and one-person processing. The question can be asked whether we are really capable of carrying out migration activities on this scale in a legally secure way. I am sure that the government is considering it, and I believe that we in Parliament also have reason to reflect on this issue. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's general experience, unclear division of responsibilities is a factor that in itself creates risks. The unclear division of responsibilities between the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, the foreign authorities and the Migration Agency is therefore a known problem. In the work with our report, we have been told that the proposal of the Responsible Investigation 2017 and Statskontoret's proposal to give the Migration Agency primary responsibility for migration operations are prepared in the Government Office. It is important that the Government returns to the Riksdag with information on how it intends to manage this risk and how the division of responsibilities can be clarified. It will be important for the Riksdag to follow up on the outcome of this preparation process. Madam President, I would like In its letter, the Government reports on the measures taken to remedy the shortcomings, risks and vulnerabilities identified by the Swedish National Audit Office in dealing with risks of irregularities and in preventing, detecting and dealing with reported cases of irregularities. It is good that the government is now taking action, but on a couple of points the Center Party wishes the government to go further. I have pointed these out in my special opinion in the committee's report. One issue concerns the integrity and independence of the internal audit of the Government Office and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' inspections. Unfortunately, the Government has not chosen to follow the Swedish National Audit Office's proposal to carry out these independent inspections and intends to continue carrying out coordinated inspections. This is an important aspect of the broader work to ensure that irregularities are detected, and I regret the government's assessment in that part. Another important issue is how to deal with reported irregularities. In the report, the Swedish National Audit Office proposed that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs inform both internally and externally of alleged and occurring cases of irregularities in order to learn lessons from this. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that the systematic dissemination of such information on cases and risks would enable the foreign authorities to learn from each other and that the foreign administration's work with zero tolerance against corruption would also benefit. Unfortunately, the government has judged that internal information is sufficient. The Center Party believes that increased transparency and transparency would also externally strengthen the important anti-corruption work and further strengthen the prevention and detection of irregularities. Having said that, Madam President, it will be very interesting to follow the Government's continued efforts to increase protection against irregularities in the migration activities of the foreign authorities. The audit by the Swedish National Audit Office makes many valuable contributions to this work. One thing is certain: there is still much and systematic work to be done by the government and the relevant authorities to address in both the short and long term the shortcomings, risks and vulnerabilities that exist and which have unfortunately increased over time.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-678	Madam President, I would like First of all, I support the Moderate reservation. Madam President, I would like 中 200 visas stolen from the embassy. . Suspicions of illegal trafficking in queues for residence permits. 中 Approved visa- suspected of bribery. 中 Fake visas issued at the Swedish Embassy. All these headlines are about Swedish embassies, residence permits and visas. Our visas and residence permits are of great value. This increases the risk that foreign authorities will be subjected to pressure from applicants who want to obtain favourable decisions or faster processing. One of our ambassadors has said the following about the information about the possibilities to get ahead in the queue by buying themselves into a queue: We have zero tolerance for corruption and irregularities. ..................................................... The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed the protection against irregularities in migration operations in the foreign authorities until May last year. However, as early as 2013, it issued an audit report on the protection of public authorities against corruption and stressed the need to strengthen prevention and internal governance and control. The Swedish National Audit Office notes in its latest audit that reported and alleged irregularities in the foreign authorities have continuously increased between 2014 and 2017. The audit has been based on issues relating to the protection against irregularities in the migration activities of the foreign authorities in relation to the management of risks of irregularities, the prevention of irregularities, the detection of irregularities and the handling of reported cases of irregularities. It is true, as the government states in its letter, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken several measures to strengthen the protection of irregularities in migration activities in the foreign authorities over the past year. However, the Swedish National Audit Office considers that protection in the four areas examined is still weak and needs to be strengthened. This concerns in particular the control procedures in the handling of migration cases, ex-post controls of migration activities and investigations of alleged irregularities. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office writes that the responsibility for migration activities at the foreign authorities is unclearly divided between the foreign authorities, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Finnish Immigration Service. This was also pointed out in the 2017 report of the Liability Investigation. Unclear liability leads to particular challenges in ensuring adequate and common protection against irregularities in the foreign authorities. On the recommendation that the Government Office should ensure that the Internal Audit Office carries out independent audit visits to the foreign authorities, the Government responds instead that it should be decided by the Government Office's internal audit before the respective audit visits. We Moderates have followed up the Swedish National Audit Office's report with a follow-up motion in which we note that the Government has partly taken on board the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusions while also considering that further action is needed. Irregularities in migration activities risk damaging confidence in the foreign authorities but also affecting the legitimacy of the state administration. The control procedures for handling migration cases in foreign authorities need to be substantially strengthened and the ex-post controls and investigations of irregularities developed and improved. Madam President, I would like As I said, it should be zero tolerance against corruption and irregularities in the migration activities of the Swedish foreign authorities.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-687	Madam President, I would like We have a responsibility to be an active and contributing part of European cooperation. We are not just one country among several countries, but we are an actor who both wants and will contribute to the development and strengthening of the laws that make our common societies better. I am therefore pleased to highlight the need for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. This is an important part of moving forward on these issues. We can see in the review that the Riksdag has examined a total of 876 proposals and produced 74 reasoned opinions, which means that we have had objections to 8% of all the proposals put forward. We can see that Parliament is largely continuing with the subsidiarity tests, while other parliaments are choosing not to try to the same extent as before. What we should remember is that, through the Treaties, we have transferred competences to the Union, and we govern them by the application of the principle of subsidiarity. In this way, in 8% of the cases mentioned earlier, we have felt that legislative proposals can be better applied than the basic proposal put forward. Madam President, I would like The principles of subsidiarity and proportionality give us the opportunity to influence, or at least, and it is very important, to express our position on both how and where a decision should be taken. In order to make it a little clearer, this means that we have been given the tools to be able to decide in different ways. It would be foolish if we did not use these, and we can read in the report that good work on the trials has been done. However, we should remember that the use of these different means of redress strengthens both the credibility and legitimacy of our citizens when it comes to the fact that we Members are making our contribution yesterday and today to a better society tomorrow – provided that the principles are properly applied so that the citizen feels a greater acceptance of politics. According to the report, it is felt that implementation has been achieved to a large extent. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country where we feel a strong sense of belonging and community. It is a country among several countries that will actively continue to contribute to the EU's common democratic process. But I am not talking about yesterday or today, but I am talking about the society we will have tomorrow and the society that we will create together and which is built on consensus, democracy and cohesion. The report shows in several parts that we, as a country, have set a good example by examining the various legislations by means of the means available to us, and that does not surprise me. As a Swede, I expect nothing but that we will do our utmost. We will try, and we will challenge if the opportunity is given. We should not make less of what makes us more credible and makes decisions as close to the citizen as they can with the best possible effect. Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee has examined reports and communication on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. Having said that, I call for the position of the Constitutional Committee to be adopted by the KU23.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-697	Madam President, I would like Swedish preschool is something we can be proud of. Many foreign delegations come here to see how our preschool works. The Alliance government strengthened the role of preschool by making it its own form of school. With purposeful efforts, quality was strengthened, not least educationally. It's a development we're supposed to be taking care of. The most important prerequisite for ensuring quality is the existence of trained preschool teachers who can be responsible for educational quality and development. There is already a shortage of preschool teachers. And according to Skolverket's projections, it's going to get worse. More preschool teachers need to be trained, and those who currently work in preschool must feel that it is attractive to remain in work. Madam President, I would like Preschool teachers should have the opportunity to become first teachers. It would raise the status and attract more to the profession. It would also be a way of getting existing preschool teachers to stay in the profession because they can feel that there is a chance to make a career. The skills of supervisors also need to be strengthened. This is particularly important for strengthening the curriculum's elements of mathematics, natural knowledge and technology. The opportunities and skills development of pre-school workers must therefore be strengthened, and the pre-school lift needs to be permanent and complemented with digital skills. Today, there is no supplementary education for academics and professionals who want to become preschool teachers. We Moderates want this to be introduced, in order to make it easier for people who want to retrain as preschool teachers. We have to take care of those who are interested in working in preschool. Madam President, I would like The evaluation of preschool by the Swedish School Inspectorate, which was presented last year, shows that the quality varies between preschools. Preschool is not equal. The School Inspectorate is responsible for the supervision of municipal preschools. In practice, this means that they make few physical visits to preschools during their municipal inspections. They often interview a selection of parents and staff but rarely visit the business itself. In the case of independent preschools, the municipalities are responsible for supervision. In evaluations, the Swedish School Inspectorate has found that municipal supervision is of varying quality. We Moderates believe that it is important for the quality of preschools to be monitored. If you are serious about wanting an equivalent preschool, monitoring must also work in an equivalent way throughout the country, regardless of which principal is operating. We believe that there is a need for a review of the entire system of supervision of preschools, in order to ensure that all children have access to a high-quality preschool. Madam President, I would like Preschool is an important first step in the education system. The new curriculum strengthened the focus on learning. We Moderates believe that this mission should be further strengthened by providing measurable knowledge goals for preschools. When the children move to preschool class, it is important that the handover takes place methodically to ensure that the new teachers from day one know the needs and conditions of the children. The Swedish National Agency for Education should be given the task of providing support to ensure the quality of delivery between preschool and preschool class. The task of preschool is to lay the foundation for the school start. This is particularly important for children who come from unskilled homes. In my municipality of residence, time has been increased in preschool for children who have parents who are unemployed. This is one way of ensuring that children from more socio-economically vulnerable homes are better placed to pass school. We Moderates want children of parents who are outside the labour market to have more time in preschool. We want to extend the right to preschool to 30 hours a week for children whose parents receive long-term support or are unemployed. Children of new arrivals are another group that has a special need for a high-quality preschool that can work with language development. The Swedish Parliament has already announced to the government that the government should set up an investigation to investigate how a compulsory preschool with language development can be introduced. Preschools play a particularly important role for children who do not speak Swedish or who have parents who do not speak Swedish. We Moderates, of course, support all our reservations. But for time winning, I only agree to reservation number four.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-711	Madam President, I would like We obviously support all 12 reservations from the Swedish Democrats. However, I would particularly like to endorse reservations 4 and 14. Today we are debating pre-schools and the sixties have received motions in this area. The topics concerned include the focus and quality of preschools, participation in preschools and other educational activities. On the other hand, we are not sufficiently concerned today, but we need to come back to the working environment and working conditions of all workers in preschool around the country. I am thinking mainly of the so-called Preschool Rebellion and the thousands of testimonies that tell us about a completely unsustainable everyday life. Although we do not touch it sufficiently today, I would like to send a message to all the people who are responsible for the rebellion: we hear you. We see you. We'll take part of your stories. And you have my word that, as a politician, I will do what I can during my term of office to improve your situation. SD as well as M, KD, C and L speak of a compulsory language preschool in some form of the motions we are discussing today. In the motion Reform Agenda for Sweden from C and L, for example, you can read that no children should start primary school without being able to Swedish. Therefore, C and L, together with M and KD, proposed the introduction of a compulsory language preschool for new arrivals. In the Swedish Democrats' motion in this area, it says that a lot of children with foreign origin grow up in our vulnerable areas without taking part in Swedish culture, our Swedish values and our way of life. The Swedish Democrats therefore want the children who grow up in vulnerable areas with two foreign parents from the age of three to be compulsory in preschool. SD, M, KD, L and C therefore agree that a compulsory language preschool should be introduced. We have a majority in the Swedish Parliament. But then there is the January agreement. The Moderates and Christian Democrats are still behind the joint motion. We in the Swedish Democrats have chosen to support it and are in favour of the reservation. The Centre Party and the Liberals, on the other hand, reject their own motion on the grounds that it intends to implement the proposal in accordance with the January Political Agreement. The only consolation here is that, after all, the proposals are relatively similar, at least on paper. But they are obviously so different that C and L feel that they cannot support their own motion and policies. I will come back to why I believe that the current government's policy on preschool is not the way forward. In the free play that will dominate preschools, children train on social skills, collaboration, creativity and initiative. The development of language skills is essential for a successful school start. We believe that instead of offering native language education to children of foreign origin, these resources should be invested in extra training in the Swedish language. It is the Swedish language that children should learn to work in society and be able to get a job in adulthood. Language is the single most important factor for successful integration. Without an acceptable language, the chances of success in society are unfortunately very small. Therefore, we want the language of conversation in our preschools to be Swedish. We also want everyone employed in our preschools to speak approved Swedish to get employment. Already today, it is written in the School Act that anyone who carries out educational activities in a preschool should have at least one educated preschool teacher. Nevertheless, preschools do not have trained staff. That is not acceptable. The Swedish Democrats therefore want Skolverket and SKL to draw up national guidelines requiring Sweden's municipalities to take measures against those preschools that do not comply with the school law's regulations regarding competence. However, we can see that a majority in this House unfortunately does not believe that preschools without trained staff are a big enough problem for action to be taken. All teaching and planned activities in preschool shall be evidence-based, or at least not contrary to available evidence and proven experience. This means that we do not want preschools to carry out gender management activities. This, of course, does not mean that we should force children into gender stereotypes, but that we allow children to develop in the direction that falls naturally to them. Nor should political trends or current flies have an impact on pre-school education. Party politics should be practiced in the democratic arenas we have for this, which is not pre-school. The World Newspaper today is a national and politically independent newspaper on a Christian basis. The magazine has among other things been nominated for the Great Journalist Prize and has also won Guldspaden. Most of the Members of this House are probably familiar with it because we receive it in our mailboxes about three times a week. About six months ago, the newspaper published an article after a child - care worker called the alarm. It was about a preschool in South Sweden where all the children should be called his/her. Furthermore, Astrid Lindgren books are thrown away, and boys are pressed to wear a dress. The drop for the nanny in question was when, after several months of being termed, a girl asked the question: Am I a girl or a boy? The nanny answered the question, even though she wasn't allowed, and said, "You're a girl. In the children's books at preschool, she had been crossed over with Tippex and replaced with her. Pippi books were thrown away because there were no gender-neutral people in them. Dolls, cars and train toys went out. There were only toys such as lego because they were not considered to fall within a certain gender standard. Mom and Dad are to be called a parent, and words such as "Snowman" and "Santa Claus" have been replaced by gender-neutral terms such as "Snow" and "Christmas Person". Unfortunately, when you ask yourself how this madness has occurred, you do not need to go further than, for example, the press release that the government is preparing for the change in the primary school curriculum. The government also changes the curriculum so that the concepts of children and students are used – instead of the concepts of girls and boys. Furthermore, children should be taught to critically examine gender patterns and how they can limit people's choices and living conditions. In the preschool curriculum, we can read that preschool teams should challenge children not to make gender stereotyping choices. Instead of gender equality that gives children equal opportunities, preschool educators should therefore step in and influence children's play and behaviour. Furthermore, the government wants 15-year-olds to be able to undergo a gender change without the guardian's consent or participation, something that has been thankfully condemned by the Law Council. I could continue with examples. I'm afraid they won't end. That is why I am very critical that the government's policy is the line that, thanks to the January agreement, will prevail in preschool when there is actually a majority in favour of a completely different direction. The article to which I refer is therefore very shocking to read, but unfortunately not very surprising. Gender equality is about us having the same opportunities and the same rights, regardless of gender, which already exists by law. If, instead of striving for gender neutrality, we accept each other's differences, we can use our different qualities to complement each other and cooperate. It's gender equality for real. I would like to conclude with a rhetorical question to the House: do you remember when we were young and went to preschool and felt bad because we did not have sex-neutral toys? Neither do I.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-734	Madam President, I would like I have a few questions. It's about cooking kitchens first. I have a long history in a municipality and am curious about how much the Swedish Democrats have set aside for this. Do the Swedish Democrats have any idea what it costs to rebuild a reception kitchen to a cooking kitchen? What is the financing proposal? This is a very populist and nice proposal that you can agree with. It sounds great, but it's not worth much if there's no money set aside. I can guarantee that the municipalities themselves do not have the funds available so that they can carry out such a comprehensive reconstruction of all their preschools. Madam President, I would like I have another question on evidence, for which the honourable Member spoke very warmly about the lack of evidence regarding gender pedagogy. The honourable Member referred to the mother tongue allowance in preschool. In your sports it says, it says native education. This term is not correct, because native language education in the strict sense does not exist in preschool. On the other hand, children are entitled to support for the development of their mother tongue. There is an enormous amount of research that suggests that if you do not develop your own native language first, it is very difficult to learn another language. The evidence of receiving support for their own native language in preschool is very strong. In this respect, you seem to choose to ignore that.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-738	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the first change of line I have in my career as a politician in the Swedish Parliament! As far as cooking kitchens are concerned, unfortunately, I do not have the figures in front of me and therefore cannot give you any exact crowns and the ear. I don't have them with me. The Swedish Democrats have an incentive contribution to the municipalities so that they will be given the opportunity to start this work. It is simply a question of cooperation between the parliament or the state and the local preschools and municipalities in order for them to be able to implement this. It's a little bit different to set up a kitchen. It depends on the conditions from the beginning. It can be from 100,000 on top. It's very different from case to case. We are initially investing in an incentive money to enable them to start this. Then we will see how it develops. Maybe we need to bet more, or the money will be enough and even over. As far as mother tongue education or support is concerned, in my opinion, there are as many studies that point the other way and that it has no direct effect. It depends a little on how you look at it. There is, of course, research that supports this, but there is also research that says that it does not have any direct effect.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-742	Madam President, I would like As I thought, the proposal for cooking kitchens is a blow to the air and pure populism. Most municipalities around Stockholm, from which I come, struggle to manage to offer preschool places on time, i.e. to expand the number of preschool places. An incentive contribution of 100 000 per kitchen to reset, I think, first of all, is low. The estimate of what this will cost is not realistic. In addition, the question is whether to give priority to pre-school places or cooking kitchens. In some cases, food in larger kitchens may have better quality. The fact that cooking kitchens are always the best is a flosskel. I would like to hear from Michael Rubbestad what research has concluded that it is not important to have mother tongue support and not to learn your mother tongue first. Can Michael Rubbestad give the name of any research report or any scientist who has come to this conclusion?
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-744	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this, Maria! It can start at 100,000. Of course, it can also be much more expensive than that. It is extremely variable on a case-by-case basis. Nor can you look at just Stockholm, which is an individual example. The conditions are different depending on where you are in the country. It can also be about different distances between preschools. Just look at Vilhelmina municipality, which is, I think, 200 miles wide. It is quite a long way between the different preschools. We are aiming for a first incentive grant and then we will see what happens. From there we can develop it. But we have to start somewhere. We believe in the idea of cooking kitchens. As far as research is concerned, I cannot give you any concrete names here and now. But if you're interested, Maria, I can of course come up with concrete examples and reconnect. I would be happy to continue the discussion at a later date.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-748	I would like to remind you of the somewhat nagging comment on the role of the President. We shall speak through the President and not by first name, by you or directly to the Member.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-749	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that we are of course behind all our motions, but I would particularly like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 2. I am very pleased to be able to stand here in the Swedish parliament and debate preschool. There is hardly anything more important for our children's well-being and their long-term development. That's where we want to start. What does the long-term goal for children in preschool mean? Of course they should feel good. They should be safe. They should be able to build the future they want. They should learn to build on their own conditions and will, not on the basis of other people's demands. Therefore, different types of pedagogy that strengthens people to be able to see different perspectives are very good even in preschool. What we have special focus on from the Center Party is that we want to expand preschool, so that more people can get better opportunities. It's very important. Now I come from Malmö, but we also see in many other places in the country that there are an enormous number of children in our society who do not get the chances that other children have. This is particularly true in our exclusion areas. We also see in the exclusion areas that it is among the children who may need preschool and educational development that it is absolutely the most that it actually takes part in. That is something on which we in the Center Party have a particular focus. Therefore, we want to expand preschool, so that not least those children who do not have the same access to the Swedish language at home get better opportunities in life. It is the children that preschools are for and not society. We must not forget that in our discussions here. If we are to give all children the opportunity to build their own future, it means that in today's society they must be given the opportunity to get an education. Today, very many drop out of primary school or high school. We need to create a foundation for completing primary school for all children. That's where preschool is extremely important. Another thing that we particularly want to focus on from the Center Party is the role of language in primary school. It must be built into preschool even more widely than it is today. That is why we want to introduce a compulsory preschool for children who come here together with new arrivals. It is crucial that no child starts school without being able to speak Swedish. When they can't, it gets much harder to pass elementary school. The fact that so many drop out of school is strongly linked to the fact that many have come to the country at a young age. Among those who come to Sweden before school age, 85 per cent are now eligible in school. It is perhaps better than one could have expected, but it is smaller than among those born in Sweden. That cannot be accepted. If you have come to Sweden before school starts, you should have the same opportunities to pass the school. Therefore, we want more people to receive language support in preschool. Of course, we will have to come back to how it will be designed in the further discussions that will be conducted with the government, among other things. It is crucial that we have a high quality in school and that it becomes a place where more people want to work. This, of course, goes hand in hand. If the staff have a work situation that is not safe and where the groups are too large, it will be extremely difficult to create a safe situation for each individual child, which is the basis for the child to feel that it is in a good place. That is why we want to review resources. We want smaller groups. It is part of the agreements we have now created in consultation with the government, and we look forward to implementing this. There will also be money for better learning environments, so that it becomes a stimulating environment. It is not just about the fact that there are educators for the young children. It is also about the everyday life they live in being stimulating for them. It's supposed to be a nice place. We who have spent a lot of time in preschool with our own children in recent years have seen that there are huge differences between preschools. There are many preschools that do not have an environment where children get the creative challenge that they could have. We also want to develop this. The crucial thing for us is that we get a preschool where every child can develop based on his or her own personality, feel safe and have a basis for a good future. Today, there is a lack of resources in preschool. That is why we have allocated more resources with our agreements with the government. We also want to give each municipality greater freedom to review the maximum rate. When resources are lacking, it may be that some of the people who earn the most could contribute more to preschool development. We hope that we can get support for this. With this, I thank myself and send a particularly grateful thought to all the staff who work in the country's preschools and give the children a safe everyday life.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-761	Madam President, I would like I will admit that I slightly changed the order of my speech when I heard the very provocative – but common – Swedish-democratic rhetoric from the speaker's seat. A question was asked by the representatives of the Swedish Democrats as to whether someone has missed gender education. Yeah, obviously. If you have followed the news for the past five, six, seven, eight years, you have seen that it is Swedish democrats who have missed gender education. Had we had gender education in preschool, you might not even have taken place in today's Parliament. When it comes to mother tongue support in preschool, I wonder if there is a single research report – you are welcome to quote – showing that children who do not know their own mother tongue would learn Swedish better than children who learn their mother tongue at the same time or first. It is also very provocative when a representative of a party with representatives who call people "whores" on the streets, call people "babbar" or hang women out on Flashback and urge people to rape them standing in this speaker's chair and say that gender education is not important. Obviously it is. Before I proceed with my speech, I am in favour of our Amendment No 15. The purposeful focus on preschools in Sweden has made it internationally unique in terms of care, accessibility, quality and educational development. Daily, the preschool staff, with a large majority of female staff, struggle to ensure that the special position of Swedish preschools is maintained. But the conditions are not always the best for either the staff or the children. I would therefore like to highlight some areas where there needs to be a change. Preschool is the first step in children's lifelong learning. Preschool affects children in their self-identity and perception of what girls and boys are, sheep and can do. Gender-flavouring structures are not only about how boys and men perceive girls and women, but also about how they perceive themselves. Knowledge in preschool about how gender roles are created and maintained should be broadened and deepened. The Left Party does not believe that only more laws are needed. There is also a need for more knowledge in all parts of preschool, both among child care workers and preschool teachers as well as with responsible principals, administrators and politicians. It is about both gender knowledge and supervision in how knowledge is translated into practical daily pedagogical work. It is a long-term work that is ongoing and cannot be removed. The school law and the curriculum's mission, as well as the professional commitment, follow an obligation to give every child the opportunity to develop all their skills without being hindered by traditional gender patterns. It is also about spreading and providing opportunities to take part in the good work that has started in several parts of the country. It is important that all principals, employees and parents learn about the curriculum's provision on gender equality in preschool and that individual preschools are covered by this. I would like to quote an excerpt from a text by preschool teacher Elizabeth: Yet sometimes I can ask myself what on earth I'm doing there, why I haven't long since moved the field. But I know I'm still there because I'm passionate about what I do when I'm there and because I'm living on a hope of better conditions. –– Like playing pieces in a power game, I work together with my colleagues further. Against bad wages and all odds, we continue, all in the hope that someone over us at the last moment can save the sinking ship we find ourselves in. With the children who will be our future. ..................................................... Many other teachers who are now involved in the Preschool Rebellion agree with this. The preschool rebellion consists of educators in preschool who are fighting for better conditions in preschool. They want smaller children's groups, higher staff density, planning time and less peripheral tasks. The pre-school rebellion also highlights issues of noise in preschool, lack of resources and the working environment in general. Preschool staff are working in increasingly large children's groups. There have been more and more children in preschool with ever longer periods of stay, while the staff have more and more tasks to attend, such as administration, dishes, cleaning, laundry and other chores. We have a curriculum to follow, with increasing demands on educational activities and documentation. At the same time, the staff should be there for all children and ensure that each child's individual needs are met. Moreover, there are currently no regulations for the size of children's groups. Madam President, I would like Many preschool educators can testify to a high noise level. The sound level is so high that the hearing of educators is damaged, and hearing loss such as tinnitus is common. In addition, it is a stress factor for both children and staff. Many children today attend preschool in much too small premises, leading to unnecessary conflicts and loud noise. A quote from the Swedish Work Environment Agency: a high noise level at preschool is another work environment problem that affects both adults and children. A research project from Umeå, which included 17 preschools, showed that the sound level in preschool is over 70 decibels on average during a working day, which is very tiring and can create stress reactions. It is at the same time a varied sound image with sudden peaks in the form of screams, sludges, overturned chairs and noisy toys. It is not uncommon for staff to suffer from sound fatigue, tinnitus and stress. ..................................................... With today's lack of resources for preschool, there is often a lack of money for vicaries, materials and excursions. Vikarier is often not introduced during illness or vacation, but it will be up to those who work in preschool – who already have a high workload with high noise levels and for large groups of children – to solve the situation themselves. In addition, preschool staff are expected to be able to provide the support they need without additional resources, guidance or training. What does this lead to? Of course, this leads to high sickness rates due to stress-related problems. The question is what costs society most in the end – welfare workers who get sick leave and children who are crammed into too small premises with too little staff or big investments in our fantastic advance business around the country. Madam President, I would like I would like to raise one final question. It's about childcare on inconvenient working hours. The labour market and our working hours are different, and unfortunately the legislation has not followed. There is currently no requirement for municipalities to offer childcare on uncomfortable working hours, i.e. evenings, nights and weekends. In some preschools, working hours are not even adapted to the full - time work of parents. One of the parents, usually the mother, is expected to go down to part-time to get to and from work and leave and pick up the children when the preschool has opened and before it closes. There are many who try to fix care in other ways so as not to lose their job. This may involve taking help from family, friends and neighbors, or even bringing children to work. This is not a sustainable situation. Lack of childcare on uncomfortable working hours runs counter to the so-called work line, which many parties here tend to beat their chests for. Instead, we should encourage parents of young children to work to support their families, and we should create security, continuity and educational development. This can only happen if we also have child care during inconvenient working hours.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-781	Madam President, I would like I'm both a father and a politician. Let me tell you what I consider to be the most important mission of preschool as a parent. It may sound banal in someone's ears, but here's the thing for me: I think preschool's primary task is to be a safe place where my child can learn through play as children do. That preschool will enable my child to run happily in the green – or perhaps a little more the white this season – and play with other children. That there should be a comforting embrace in preschool if a knee should accidentally be scraped up. For those who have a parent's perspective, the child is always at the centre. As a parent, you also want every child to be confident that there is a teacher who sees that particular child. The parent should also be able to be safe with this – treating each child as a unique person. If you have the parent's perspective on preschool – that is, from a bottom-up perspective – you also worry that many preschools find it difficult to provide good care, not least because of the large children's groups. Pre-school staff are currently peaking the statistics on sick leave. Some Members have already referred to the Preschool Rebellion. I want to do it too. The pre-school rebellion has gathered stories from the staff showing the gap between ambition and reality. Here's what an educator tells us. 28 years in the profession. Love the meeting with the kids. The only thing that keeps me here. When I started, we were 15 children in the group and 3.5 staff. Now we're up to 23 children and 3 staff. 18 children in small children. How can you handle it? Then all the peripherals you have to have time for, too. I don't sleep well. I feel bad almost all the time. I didn't talk to that child today! ! I didn't document the walk today! I forgot to mention that A hit his head today! ! I forgot to pee myself today! ..................................................... Madam President, I would like I cannot stress enough the importance of smaller groups of children in preschool and good staffing. Children are different. In order for all parents to find an alternative that suits them and their children, there must be well-developed childcare facilities with different options. There should be a variety of different types of childcare facilities and principals: preschools, family day-care centres, open preschools and recreation centres. This, of course, requires municipalities to offer equal conditions for all approved childcare and pre-school activities. The aim of preschool and other childcare should be to meet every child's needs for safe care, stimulation, play, community and development. The goal of the Christian Democrats is that parents should be able to choose the care that is best for their children, that there are different forms of childcare and that all childcare is of high quality. Madam President, I would like Childcare allowance is a welcome and long-awaited reform. The rules mean that the power over childcare is moved closer to the parents, where it should be right. Unfortunately, the regulations leave a great deal of room for municipalities to prevent activities that parents really want. Nor has the reform been marketed, which means that few parents are aware of the opportunities available. There is a need for better information for parents about childcare allowances and how they can be used. The obligation for municipalities to provide information on childcare allowances therefore needs to be tightened up. Madam President, I would like For a parent, children are the most important thing. We want them to have the absolute best. Parents should be able to feel confident that there is time and a hug to crawl into for their two-year-old. Pre-school staff should be able to feel confident about having good opportunities to do their fantastic work. Furthermore, the size of children's groups is important for children's development and learning. Here, Madam President, we still have a way to go. Finally, I would like to express my support for our reservation 28, while, of course, supporting all the reservations of the Christian Democrats.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-793	Madam President, I would like Many colleagues have certified the importance and centrality of preschool operations in Sweden. Over 500,000 children are enrolled in this important activity, and we, the parents of preschool children, know the priceless work of child care workers and preschool teachers every day throughout the country. What places some restrictions on the Riksdag is that it is municipalities or individual actors that conduct preschool activities. Finally, they can influence the composition of children's groups in everyday and local life, investment in skills, wage developments and, not least, the issue of health and safety at work. But it is clear that we in Parliament and the state have a great responsibility when it comes to the curriculum and the focus of knowledge, because learning is mixed with play and because the activities are preparing for preschool class and eventually for school. It is important that we ensure that we manage the recruitment of skills, not least in the case of preschool teachers, and that we become better at monitoring the quality of preschool activities. In practice, responsibility lies entirely with the local level. The central point is, of course, that all children should be given the opportunity to attend preschool. It is also important, as some have done, that parents can choose preschools, whether they are municipal or private. Therefore, pre-school money, information and the entire system must work so that you as a parent can make an active choice that suits you. The proposal on language preschool has also been mentioned a little briefly. This was initially a proposal that the Liberals launched for the election. We naturally welcome the fact that several parties eventually joined our proposal. It is not true, as the Swedish Democrats have said, that we are backing from our own proposal. Instead of following up on a motion and making a general announcement, that is to say a call to the government to possibly come back with something in one or two years' time, as a consequence of the agreement with the Social Democrats and the Green Party, we have got that point into the agreement. I can assure the Swedish Democrats that we will be discussing this point with the responsible Minister as early as next week. I therefore feel absolutely safe with this handling. The compulsory language preschool will be introduced during this term of office. It is extremely important – educational, integration policy and, not least, gender equality. Good early childhood education and care are also important for more women, especially those born abroad, to enter the labour market more quickly. As far as quality is concerned, Madam President, we in the Liberals have also proposed a national pre-school inspection. Of course, we will continue to do this, even outside the so-called January agreement. As the proportion of qualified, educated preschool teachers declines and children's groups grows larger and larger, and in the light of stress, health and safety issues and the exchange of pre-school managers who fail their mission, it is clear that the quality issue becomes even more important. When it comes to the competence issue and recruitment to preschool, it is worrying that only about 40 per cent of those working in Swedish preschool have pre-school education. Of course there are differences. Some municipalities are skilled and have 55, 60 or 65 per cent qualified preschool teachers, but we also have some serious examples where you are down to 20 per cent preschool teachers and try to replenish with nannys but also with unauthorized staff. I think this is very serious. This requires a permanent national investment in reading lift, teacher lift and competence, if we are to maintain the quality that we are proud of. Because it is correct that several Members have spoken about: We should be proud of Swedish preschools. Staff are doing a great job, but there are great challenges. Finally, in order to highlight the importance of pre-school learning and the importance of increasing the proportion of pre-school teachers qualified in higher education, which is governed by a strengthened curriculum in which competence and education are crucial for the quality of pre-school education, I would also like to endorse our reservation 13 in the report.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-804	Madam President, I would like I picked up my daughter from preschool on Friday afternoon. It was snow blown and very cold. I prepared mentally and physically for later joining Women's March to pay attention to International Women's Day. I sat in front of my daughter, looked her deep in the eye and told her how good she is, that she is valuable, that she should never do anything just because it is expected of her, that she should stand up for herself and do what she likes and that she is strong. She looked me in the eye and said: Mom, I know; I have muscles. And then she tightened her arms. Of course you have, I said. You're super strong! The conversation we had was very genuine. It may seem like an unnecessary conversation to have with a six - year - old, but it's not. Every day, as a parent, I have to remind myself of how I express myself to my children and not to distinguish between their achievements, abilities, shortcomings or whatever it may be, not to reinforce certain qualities more than others and, above all, not to encourage behaviors that I consider to be normative as an adult. To challenge my understanding and not apply traditional, subjective opinions to my own children is something I get to work with every day. Madam President, I would like Then why am I telling you this? Well, this Friday afternoon, I actually made a difference to my children, not to be mean, but because I know that their conditions are different. I didn't have the conversation with my son. I had it with my daughter, because I know that she is one of those who will be reminded every day that what is right and proper for her is not always right and right according to what society, friends or others think. Here preschool has an incredibly important role. It is about starting from each individual child, stimulating and promoting creativity and curiosity, supporting children so that they dare to do what strengthens their self-esteem and what is fun and not to limit them, no matter who they are. Madam President, I would like Today, therefore, we are debating the report by the Committee on Education and Training on pre-school education, UbU7. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal. As many previous speakers have said, we have a fantastic preschool – a world-class preschool. It is a preschool that combines play and learning, based on research, proven experience and knowledge, which looks at each child's individual needs and offers children security and care. Preschools should be compensatory and help to equalise differences, give children the right conditions to cope with upcoming schooling and contribute positively to everyone's life journey. The report highlights motions which point out that preschool plays an important role for children who never or rarely meet the Swedish language at home. The Parliament has, on a proposal from the committee, issued a notice to the government to review how a compulsory preschool with language development can be introduced from the age of three. At the same time, it is important that efforts are made to promote the language development of parents. For this work, funds have been set aside in the 2018 budget proposal for SKL to provide municipalities with guidance on how they can coordinate open preschools and interventions for the Swedish language during parental leave. Madam President, I would like We Social Democrats want to continue to develop and take preschool further into the future. Since 2017 the preschool has been part of the initiative Collaboration for the best school, where the Swedish National Agency for Education has been tasked with supporting preschools with particularly difficult conditions to improve their operations. This is an important quality work that will help to enable the authorities to review the development needs of preschools and offer training and guidance to achieve higher goals. It increases equality and equivalence in preschool. Many preschools are moving in the right direction. In others, the staff are on their knees. Preschools face challenges linked to inequality, staff shortages and large children's litters. These are challenges that policy needs to prioritise and solve. We need to train more preschool teachers and child care workers and give those who work in preschool better opportunities. That is why the government has made a major effort on preschool during the last term of office. We have, among other things, expanded pre-school education, put forward proposals for a more attractive child care course, revised the preschool curriculum and included pre-school students in skills development initiatives such as Reading Lift and continuing education within the national school development programmes. We are clear that the profession should be strengthened. In this way, learning within preschool is also strengthened on the basis of promoting the individual needs, development and desire of all children to learn. It is in preschool that we lay the foundation for lifelong learning, and the teaching should be based on stimulating and challenging children based on the curriculum's goals. It is in preschool all children, even those who don't have parents who go to Women's March on International Women's Day and who don't take the conversation about masculinity standards, should have their worlds widened, learn that they are good enough and get to meet the first pictures of society, the market and popular culture gender norms. It is in preschool that all children base their feelings on how we as people treat each other with warmth, generosity and respect for each other's people. The national benchmarks for the size of children's groups that the Alliance government scrapped have been reintroduced, and each year we invest SEK 830 million in reducing the size of children's groups. This is a work that we will continue. It's had an effect. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education's statistics, we now have the smallest groups of children in decades, a higher staff density and an increase in the proportion of employees with a pre-colleague degree. But there are still challenges in this area. More needs to be done. We're not happy. We know that children who have attended a high-quality preschool are better prepared for school, have better language skills and demonstrate greater social competence than children who have not participated in preschool activities. This is particularly true for children with tough growing-up conditions and other socio-economic backgrounds. The compensatory role of preschools cannot be emphasized enough. In order to meet children and their needs, it is necessary to implement measures, structure the work and give time to peer learning. It is about giving educators time to be educators and providing opportunities for good care and care, combined with more resources, specialist teachers and special educators, and intensified work to strengthen and build on the skills available. At the same time, educational leadership also needs to be strengthened. Research shows that preschool quality is closely linked to clear and accessible pedagogical leadership. Therefore, we have worked to ensure that preschool managers will have the same professional title as in other school forms and the same right to attend the state vice-chancellor education as of this autumn. Madam President, I would like For us Social Democrats, the priority is clear: A high-quality preschool is a prerequisite for a stronger society and a safer Sweden. And of course it makes a difference. The best thing about being an educational politician and a parent with children in preschool is when you see that the political decisions you make actually come to your own – when the children honk at a song about every day of the week, when they practice social interaction through experiments with mathematics or create art, or at least try to create art, by spraying on the snow with colored water. They operate in a context. They learn in their daily lives. When they talk about dreams and what they want to work in the future, and when they are allowed and encouraged to think freely and broadly, so that they don't get caught up in structures and norms that the adult world has shaped – then you know that we have contributed to our common future.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-822	Madam President, I would like I think we've all been through it sometime – to return to the scene of a childhood memory in adulthood. We are surprised and almost surprised when we realize that that mountain we climbed as a kid was really just a small hill, or that the big field that we ran tired of was perhaps just a small lawn. What was so big then, what was an adventure when we were little, turns out when we are in adulthood only to be quite small. I thought about this when I was preparing for this debate. With relatively small efforts made in this context, huge differences are made in Sweden's preschools. A person's life course can be steered in radically different directions depending on very small puffs or pushes at an early age. To give a preschool teacher a little more time with the children or to spend a little extra on children with special needs is perhaps on the whole nothing revolutionary. But for the individual child who will one day grow up, that little push can be what it takes to steer the rest of his life in the right direction. Those who get the right start and encouragement to grow based on their own conditions have good chances of passing school, getting a job and becoming the adult they want to be. Instead, if we ignore the evidence of a lack of resources and of large groups of children – yes, it also gives a little push, but perhaps in the wrong direction. But a small push for a small one has big consequences when small becomes big. A child who is forgotten at an early age is at risk of falling behind in school at a young age, may not even leave comprehensive school with upper secondary school qualifications and will likely find it difficult to get a job. Economists Ingvar Nilsson and Anders Wadeskog have shown that a single young person who ends up a little wrong and besides as a young person, who does not get an honest chance at school, risks costing society up to 15 million – a single child. A wrong decision today can cost us very much for a long time to come. That is why the Green Party in government has so strongly prioritised preschool and wants us to continue to do so. One of Gustav Fridolin and the Green Party's first decisions was to reintroduce the benchmarks for the size of children's groups that were removed during the previous government. In addition, a state grant of nearly 1 billion was introduced to encourage municipalities and independent authorities to work towards the benchmarks. There is still a lot of work left, it should be said, but we see that this has had results. The size of children's groups has begun to decline. But we still have a lot left. We need to gas up. The Green Party wants to include pre-school in the various national state grants and also to provide a state grant for equal funding like what has been proposed by the School Commission for school. If the work does not go fast enough, we are also no stranger to starting to draft a bill on the size of children's groups. However, such a law may be difficult and complex and may make it more difficult for pre-school managers to plan their educational activities. Of course, the best thing would be for us to do without teams, but if a law is what it takes to bring children's groups down to the size of the research required, we probably need to start working on it. We know that if children's groups become too large, the work of preschool teachers and child care workers becomes difficult. The educational content of their work risks being reduced. Smaller groups of children are a major priority for the Green Party. It is linked to the other priorities set out in this report and to the motions that we have launched during the general period of exercise. Madam President, I would like Let me spend some time talking about them. First of all, more people have to want to work in preschool. Then resources and the working environment play a major role. We need to strengthen professional programmes in upper secondary school so that more people choose to study basic education in order to become a child nurse. Many municipalities are building up training courses so that those who work as a child nurse but lack education will have that opportunity. We also need to ensure that more people in total, especially more men, choose to become preschool teachers. Therefore, pre-school education needs to be expanded, and opportunities to combine work in preschool with education for preschool teachers need to be improved. Secondly, leadership is crucial for the work situation of preschool teachers and child care workers. This summer, the headmasters of preschools will also become principals in the sense of the law. Previously, they were pre-school managers. Responsibilities resulting from the management of curriculum-driven activities shall be clarified. The role of preschool as the start of a coherent school system becomes clear. Requires that the headmasters of preschools should undergo the principal education in the same way as the principals of comprehensive school and high school. That's good. It also requires that the Vice-Chancellor's programmes take in more parts about really small children's learning. Thirdly, there are transitions between the different stages of school. Sweden needs a more cohesive school system, which starts in preschool. The preschool class is a bridge to comprehensive school, and the primary school stages are held together before a conscious upper secondary school election. The preschool class can play a very good and important role here when it combines preschool pedagogy with primary school. We want to strengthen this by implementing the good changes in the curricula that have been made but also by ensuring that preschool teachers and primary school teachers continue to cooperate in the preschool class. We are, of course, in agreement with the January agreement on preparing a ten-year primary school, but we want preschool teachers to continue to be qualified to teach six-year-olds. It is not reasonable to deprive academically trained in small children's learning of the mandate to teach six-year-olds. Given the good evaluations of Swedish pre-school education, it is also not rational to reduce playful pedagogy's space for the youngest children. Children teach when they play. Fourthly, it is about equality. A very large part of all children in Sweden attend preschool. However, there are those who do not take place in preschool, and there are more of them in the groups that would benefit most from preschool. It was therefore good that Gustav Fridolin in the government made an agreement with SKL to have more open preschools with language education for parents. It'll give you a way into preschool. We are also looking forward to developing what we have agreed with the Social Democrats, the Centre Party and the Liberals on language preschools for newly arrived children. Fifthly, we are talking about the educational content. The previous curriculum was a good foundation, but since 20 years have passed since it was formulated, it became increasingly inferior as a practical tool for planning preschool days. That is why it was good that the Green Party was pushing for a revised curriculum for preschool, which is now coming into force. It clarifies the responsibilities of preschool teachers and nurseries. It underlines the importance of outdoor and educational activities. And it reinforces the work on gender equality and gender equality. Perhaps the most important thing is that it makes reading aloud a natural part of every preschool. At the same time as the curriculum enters into force, all Swedish preschools will have a small preschool library with adapted and good literature that works for reading aloud. All children should get acquainted with reading and language early. It gives interest in reading and what is often the first great learning effort for a child: learning to read. Children who have been read to, who have begun to meet the pages, words and letters of the books and who have understood the rich world that fits in the books, naturally long to learn to read themselves. They can then take the important step early in school from learning to reading in order to learn, which is crucial when approaching middle school. Therefore, reading in preschool already plays a very important role. On a slightly larger level, reading is an exercise in practical solidarity. When you read, you put yourself in someone else's shoes, in the world that the author has designed. I think we all need to do that more often. It underlines another aspect of preschool's mission and reality: to give children space to grow and to learn together. This requires that preschools have the support of special pedagogy skills and can meet children with different needs and children from different environments. But that is exactly the work that Sweden's knowledgeable and competent preschool teachers, principals and child care workers do every day. Madam President, I would like With this description of our priorities and what we want, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-847	Madam President, I would like My line is about the grant to reduce children's groups in preschool. I think we have all heard alarm reports about large groups of children, and everyone takes this issue seriously. I wish we had a wand that could reduce children's groups in a single turn. I spent some time between votes to look – for safety's sake – at the regulations on how to apply for the grant that the previous government spent money on in order to reduce children's groups. The Swedish National Agency for Education has reported that children's groups have decreased, but one might wonder if they really have decreased. That is what we want; we do not want this to be a blow in the air. There is nothing in the legal framework to apply for or to report back on staffing density requirements or the separation of groups in the different premises. I find that problematic. The risk – especially in municipalities like those around Stockholm, where there is a shortage of places – is that in practice this does not mean that children's groups have been reduced. Instead, children's groups are maintained, but the organisation has been redesigned on paper. I would like to hear the honourable Member's comments or reflections on this.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-852	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Stockhaus for the question and for addressing the problem of the size of children's groups. It is of course extremely important to try to bring down the size of children's groups; it is of educational importance. This work has not been easy. We have started work and, among other funds, about SEK 1 billion has been added to make this happen. As we have seen in the committee's report and in the texts relating to it, it has so far gone a little too slowly. Children's groups are not falling at the rate we want, and we simply need to gas this work with more money. If it is the case that the regulatory framework does not work, we may need to consider putting in place new rules or passing a law on the size of children's groups. It'll have to be my answer so far.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-855	Madam President, I would like This is not the first time that the previous government and, I suspect, unfortunately also the government that is sitting now – it is the same parties that are part of it – are failing to follow up efforts that are being made to see that they are really giving the results that they want them to give. This is not the only place where it is flawed either. The National Agency for Education takes the statistics that come from the municipalities. There is no regulation on how to report the size of children's groups. I myself have visited several preschools who have taken part in this grant, where it has not actually meant a reduction in children's groups or an increase in staffing density. They have simply reorganised on paper and have been able to take part in these contributions because there is no proper follow-up on how the grant has been used or whether this in practice has led to a reduction in children's groups in preschools. If you spend 1 billion – which is a fairly substantial amount of money – on reducing children's groups in preschool, which we all agree on is important, I think it is an obligation to follow up that the money is really useful. I'm afraid this is a populist blow in the air that sounds good. It sounds like a lot of money, but once you visit the preschools out there you can see that it does not actually mean a better situation for the preschool teachers and nannys who work there and also not a better situation for the children. As I have seen, there are no suggestions to follow this up more closely, but they are content with the follow-up that the Swedish National Agency for Education comes with. It is SEK 1 billion that gets poor follow-up – I think it is irresponsible.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-860	Madam President, I would like Of course, we want to reduce the number of children in preschool groups. For pedagogy and for preschool activities to work, it is crucial that it becomes a learning in pedagogy and that learning does not disappear. Pedagogy is disturbed if the groups are too large – then it will be difficult to get the pedagogy that we need in preschool to work. Pedagogy does not improve because we have figures on paper, but we need to reduce the number in children's groups in reality in preschools. It has looked like this in the past, and we have started work to do this. I agree with Maria Stockhaus that this should be evaluated and examined so that we have a real impact on this money. As Maria Stockhaus says, 1 billion is a lot of money, but possibly it is not enough. We simply need to step up our work so that we get a real result. It is crucial for preschools to have their educational activities.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-863	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that Sweden is a fantastic country when it comes to the possibility of studying at virtually all levels. There are good forms of study aid. However, the means of study must be adapted to reality, and that is what is at issue here. I myself have a 30-year relationship with the Central Student Support Board, CSN. I'm very pleased with the relationship before. Now it's a little tougher, now it's recovery. But it has enabled me to study a long education at university, so at the same time it is something that is very good. The question of study funds concerns many people. That's why there's a lot of exercise, which is a lot of fun. The report contains more than 30 requests and 11 reservations, so it is a great interest in the matter. I am, of course, in favour of all the reservations expressed by the Moderates, but I am only in favour of reservation 5, which we have with the KD. As society has changed, working and study life has also changed. In the past, an education was often studied right after high school. They often worked in the same workplace and perhaps had the same profession all their lives. Perhaps they also had children after studying. It doesn't always look like that anymore. There's quite a lot that's changed. We need to adapt to changes in society, to what the labour market looks like, to different innovations and also to how life changes. Then the means of study must also follow today's conditions. Madam President, I would like We need to strengthen the possibilities for further training and conversion by reviewing the study funding system. It must be changed so that it is also suitable for older people. If you have a university degree, you should have the opportunity to study another degree, and it should also be possible to do so later in life. You might want a new education or a further education. It may also be that your first education starts quite late. But then, of course, one must have the possibility of financing. The majority rejects our motions, which I think are very good and urgent, on the grounds that various measures may be taken. But we feel very impatient. We do not think it can wait any longer, but we want to speed up these important changes. That's why we've woken these, I think, good exercise. We are talking about a conversion package. This includes, for example, an increase in the amount of the allowance, an increase in the number of extra study weeks for those aged 40 years from 40 to 60 weeks and an increase in the age limit for study funds to 60 years from the current age of 56 years introduced in 2013. We also want to provide additional loans for students over the age of 25 who have children and also provide the opportunity for those who already have a higher education programme to receive student funding. I would therefore like to endorse Amendment No 5.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-871	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the two reservations of the Swedish Democrats in this area, reservations 2 and 8. When reading the exercises received, it is quite easy to see a red thread. Several parties say that the possibility of studying later in life needs to be improved. However, the proposals differ so much that no majority for any proposal arises, which means that in principle there is no change at all. I would like to refer to a story that I have been told about Finland from time to time in 1985. There, more or less, a number of ruling politicians were locked in a room and not allowed to come out until they had reached an agreement. I'd love to see us do the same thing. We are different parties with different input values, but at the same time we all agree that Sweden should retain and strengthen its role as a knowledge nation and that one of many goals we all aim for is the possibility of studies later in life and further up in the ages, to take just one example. Let us then take up the fact that we have the same goal and sit down to discuss which way is best to get there. I am convinced that we will be able to agree for the future of teachers, students and Sweden. My and my party colleagues' door is always open for discussion. Sweden should be a country where people can live, work and have children in school even outside the larger cities. That is why we propose that graduates who take up employment in areas defined by the EU as sparsely populated areas should receive 15% of their student debt written off every year as they work in sparsely populated areas. Here is again such an issue where other parties from both left and right are on a similar line, although there is talk of different percentages, for example. This is an effort that needs to be made to address, for example, the lack of teachers in our sparsely populated areas and to preserve or restore a living countryside. In rural areas it is often difficult to recruit doctors and nurses, which threatens both the quality of care and patient safety. Attracting doctors to the countryside is a challenge not only in Sweden but also in other parts of the world. In rural areas of the United States there is a system in which doctors can commit to working for a certain number of years and as a bonus get their student debt reduced. We believe that the system is interesting and therefore want it to be calculated and investigated for the corresponding Swedish conditions. A corresponding system can also be applied to nurses in order for them to want to go to less attractive places and to sparsely populated areas. The International Organisation for Cooperation (OECD) reviews the education sector in its Member States each year. One factor that the organisation is looking at is the so-called education premium, that is, how much you gain from continuing your studies compared to starting work right after high school. Sweden is usually at the bottom, and the latest survey was unfortunately no exception. Sweden has the clearly lowest education premium of all OECD countries and is therefore the country where it pays the least to acquire higher education. In my speech in the debate on student aid last December, I asked the rhetorical question of whether we have a problem with so-called miseducation in Sweden. This concept means that a person has educational qualifications that exceed the skills requirements of a service, while at the same time lacking the skills to take up employment in the professions where labour is needed. Today I would like to answer that question. And the answer is, unfortunately, yes. Eight out of ten students say that they are studying to get a job, so motivation and will are not the problem. However, studies show that the Swedish labour force has a significant lack of education. The statistics show that four out of ten higher education institutions are losses. You simply study the wrong direction if the goal is to get a job. A quantitative expansion of the Swedish education system does not therefore see the Swedish democrats as a guarantee that the matching problems in the labour market will be solved. Rather, the less educated are at risk of being out of work, while others are training in areas where there is no job or need and instead receive jobs that do not require skills that correspond to the level of education. Error training is also very likely to have a negative impact on the salary premium. If many in the labour market have formally higher qualifications than are required for current jobs, the wages of these people will be relatively low. In other words, the training premium is low, which further contributes to labour market matching problems. You will recognize this from my speech last December. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose, as part of the solution, to encourage students to take courses where there is a great need in the labour market and which are important for Sweden's economy and future development by giving students on such programmes more in study grants. We therefore propose a premium of SEK 1 000 per month on the study grant for these programmes. It will burden the public purse a lot, yes, but if we succeed in getting more students to choose these courses, we are convinced that the profits in the long term will far exceed the costs and miseducations to be reduced. Of course, what education and training is meant is a living document based on the current needs and forecasts of the labour market. In our view, however, these may include, for example, certain engineering and IT-related training courses, nurses or teachers. The individual's incentives to choose education and training based on employers' needs need to be strengthened. One way is the proposal for increased student support for shortage jobs, another is depreciation of student loans for teachers taking up employment in rural areas. Demanded professions and training become more attractive as the training premium rises. Only then can education be brought up to speed with the outside world.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-887	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 9. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but only in favour of time-winning. No matter who you are, where you come from or what parents you have, you should have good opportunities to study in Sweden and also be able to succeed in the labour market, because jobs are one of the most important, if not the most important, to break exclusion and get more people into society. Getting people to work requires a series of reforms. These include education and providing better opportunities to study both at upper secondary level as well as in adult education, higher education and also in the Swedish education system. Providing a high-quality education and training system is one of the most important roles of policy. It is important for the individual's ability to get a job but also for the conditions to form personally. For society, it is absolutely crucial that people have the opportunity to have a high-quality education in order to meet the needs of the labour market and to succeed in the major challenges that we currently face in the labour market due to mismatches; for example, one in four fails to recruit. Strengthening the quality of education and training is crucial, but there is also a need for a study system that makes people want, dare and can move on to studies. The Center Party has some important points regarding study funding. One is included in the January agreement signed by the Center Party with the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party and the Liberals. It is about creating the conditions for people to be able to study higher up in the age group and to be able to re-school and further educate themselves. With today's development with automation and digitalisation as well as a pension agreement that shows that we will have to work higher up the ages to fund our common welfare, with everything that that entails, it needs to be possible for people to change or further train themselves. This is a crucial issue for Swedish competitiveness and for the Swedish labour market. That is why I am pleased that it is included in the agreement we have signed with the Government and the Liberals. No later than in the 2021 budget, reforms will be introduced to address this. The Center Party has more policy on study funding than just the possibility of studying higher up in the ages and the possibility of re- and further training. We want to see a flexible study aid system that provides the opportunity to stimulate people to study at a faster rate than normal. It is also a question of people who have attended upper secondary school or for other reasons need to be able to study at a slower pace, providing conditions for this in the Swedish study aid system. An important issue that is topical and that the previous government took up after the parliamentary social security inquiry is about the possibility for students to be on part-time sick leave during their studies. It is an absolutely crucial issue in which the Center Party has been pushing for a long time. Now there is a government inquiry on referral, but there is a bit left before this can be done for real and make a difference for the students. I hope that this issue is kept alive and that this is being implemented. The issue of creating conditions for part-time sick leave has been discussed in this House for too long, and now there must be a little political workshop for students. In addition, in the case of part-time sick leave during studies, the ability of higher education institutions to meet the needs of these students to study part-time must be improved. Madam President, I would like The Center Party also wants it to be possible to live and live throughout the country. Today's Swedish study aid system is one of the most urbanising systems we have in society. Students receive preferential loans and grants and, in the vast majority of cases, a high-quality education if they move from rural and rural areas to large cities for further education. For many, but too few, it also means getting a higher salary and thus better private finances by taking the step of moving from rural and rural areas to large cities for higher education. The Center Party has a proposal linked to this, and it was also included in the Rural Committee's report. This is a write-off of student debt for those who study higher education and then move back home or move to sparsely populated areas. This creates a prerequisite for studying and then moving to areas that may be most difficult to succeed in recruiting socially important functions. This could be about doctors, nurses and teachers in the public sector. It may also involve companies that need to get hold of a civil engineer or other technically trained person in order to take the next step and develop their operations and thereby contribute to the local community. Taking further steps to create incentives for people to live and live throughout the country is crucial for us to have an education system that meets the needs of the whole country. As the study funding system is one of the most urbanising, there is reason to consider reforms for this particular system. Madam President, I would like The study aid system plays an important role in Sweden. It creates the conditions for people to be able to educate themselves. It is a good thing that there will be reforms in the January agreement that will enable us to study higher up the age bracket and to re-train and re-train. But more needs to be done, and I have highlighted a few areas in this speech.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-903	Madam President, I would like Education and training are crucial for a good society and for people's personal development. Training should also meet the needs of the labour market for a skilled and well-trained workforce. In Sweden, of course, the goal is that everyone should be able to realize their dreams as far as possible. We want everyone to have access to an education, and in Sweden we have a unique system where it is free of charge to study. We'll be proud of that. The study period is, of course, associated with the cost of living. Sweden also has a unique system to protect and be proud of. By reducing economic barriers, all residents should have the opportunity to have education regardless of who they are, where they come from and what family conditions they have. Madam President, I would like The possibility of further studies should not be limited to a certain age range in younger years. Instead, it must be possible to start completely new studies or to supplement previous education throughout life. This means that we need a well-developed adult education. In addition, this increases the conditions for meeting the needs of the labour market for skilled workers. All parts of the study grant, i.e. study grants during upper secondary school studies, grants for pupils with disabilities, apprenticeships and student funding with grant and loan part, will help to equalise financial differences and create good conditions for individuals as well as between groups in society. There is a self-worth in that students establish themselves early on in the labour market, and therefore it is positive that students have the opportunity to work during their studies, as long as the studies do not suffer. Madam President, I would like Today, the release limit the students' own decisions on how much time and opportunity they have to work alongside their studies. That is why we believe that the amount of the release should be abolished. Madam President, I would like We also want to strengthen the opportunities for further training and transition to facilitate a re-start later in life. I am expected to work a little longer than my parents, and that means that we must also give the opportunity to restart. We need to improve matching and skills provision, and the individual's own job opportunities need to be improved through opportunities for further training and transition. Among other things, it should be reviewed how the study funding system can be changed so that those who are older or have a higher education degree have an increased opportunity to study even later in life. Today, students can receive study funding for a maximum of six years for full-time studies in higher education and other post-secondary education, regardless of whether the studies lead to a degree or not. The time limits for post-secondary education should be better adapted to the length of education. The number of months of study funding to which there should be a general right should be fewer than today. At the same time, students on longer education courses and students wishing to build on a basic level degree should be given the opportunity to receive additional student funding. Some students should therefore be able to receive student funding for a longer period than is currently the case. This increases the drive for well-planned and effective studies. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to endorse KD's reservation No 6. At the same time, of course, I support all our reservations.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-915	Madam President, I would like For us Social Democrats, the fight for everyone's right to good education is an important part of equality policy. I am convinced that within each of us there is a force that can be unleashed and that the task of politics must be to facilitate, so that we are all given the opportunity to realise our dreams of life. A successful policy destroys walls and does not build dead ends. Tonight, we are debating student aid – a fundamental part of our education system – which gives thousands of people throughout the country an opportunity for study and knowledge. The report highlights a number of proposals which in various ways want to change the study support system. I would like to start by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. In order to better understand what political inputs we have from the various parties in this debate, I think it is important to give a background to how we view student support. Madam President, I would like We live in troubled times, and what we take for granted today may be questioned tomorrow. That is precisely why this debate is important. I will now take the opportunity to give you in this House and anyone who looks at my best arguments at home in this debate. Here are top ten of my arguments for fair student support: Madam President, I would like The opinion of the Social Democrats is that a generous and well-functioning study aid system should help to level out differences. In an increasingly tough labour market, increased competition must be met with higher education ambitions. We know the following: To get a job today, a high school degree is required in almost every case. When old jobs disappear, they are replaced with new ones that often require more knowledge and perhaps completely different experiences than before. Knowledge must be won again. Skills development in working life and lifelong learning, where everyone is given real opportunities to participate on the basis of their own conditions, is a prerequisite if we want to reduce differences and create confidence in the future. I believe that the political difference in this House boils down to our view of our common role and our responsibility for those who are furthest from influence, education and a place in the labour market. We Social Democrats are proud that during the last parliamentary term we gave everyone the right to komvux, expanded the knowledge boost, which gave thousands of young and adults a chance for education and transition, and increased the study grant so that the students got a better economy. But we're not happy. We want more. Within the framework of the January Agreement, which was highlighted here in the pulpit earlier and which the Liberals, the Center Party, the Environmental Party and the Social Democrats are behind, we agree that the knowledge boost should be expanded, that the opportunity to further educate or retrain higher up in the ages should be expanded and that we want to see more generous conditions within the study funding system for this to be true. Madam President, I would like With the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, supported by the Swedish Democrats, an important part of the recruiting study funding system, study start-up support, is now being dismantled. When the committee debated the budget in this House in December, the CSN evaluation was not yet presented. Nevertheless, it was important for these parties to remove the initiative. The support was introduced to reach short-skilled groups far the furthest from the possibility of training and then work. CSN's report states that last year 4,919 people with start-up support studied, that the use of funds allocated increased from 5 to 28 per cent compared to 2017 and that 66 per cent of all students had the highest level of primary education. The overall assessment is that the start-up grant has recruited between 40 and 55 per cent of the students and that half of the participants today study vocational education and training in shortage professions. Firstly, we can therefore conclude that the initiative has not yet reached its full potential, but that it seems to meet the right target groups. In doing so, short-skilled and unemployed people receive a grant enabling them to read on or enter the labour market. Secondly, we note that it was more important for the Moderates and Christian Democrats, supported by the Swedish Democrats, to reduce the tax most for those who already had. Madam President, I would like We live in a class society. In the last parliamentary term, therefore, we changed the policy, from tax cuts to those who already had a lot to spending on more teachers and smaller groups of children in school and on equality between schools. We expanded the knowledge boost and increased the funding for studies. For it happens to be the case that if politics does not have justice in mind, the differences increase and the class society grows. Education policy should work for those who for various reasons have not made the right choices from the beginning or who lack the right knowledge, but it must also work for those who have good study experience or high grades. We Social Democrats stand up for and defend the right to a generous study aid system. Our goal is the freedom of man and the full participation of all in lifelong learning.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-935	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats are talking about the fact that we want to remove the start-up aid. We believe, of course, that we should have many different means to get started with studies, but at the same time we must make use of the funds we have. It turned out to be a complicated and tricky system that the municipalities do not want to use, and we therefore want to remove it and invest in other, more effective training programmes.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-936	Madam President, I would like Thank you for explaining the reasons why you want to remove the support, Marie-Louise-Louise Hänel Sandström! Again, it goes to those who are farthest from the labour market and who lack the right education to get the jobs where we today have a great need in the labour market. The Moderates say they want to make priorities in state finances. It is also important for us in the Social Democracy to have order and order of plus and minus so that we make efforts that strengthen society. Then I wonder why it was so important to reduce taxes on those who have the most money and pay it in such a way that those who are farthest from education and work actually pay for these tax cuts. I happen to have in front of me the summary of your budget exercise, where you mention, among other things, increased job tax deductions, increased cut-off point – which is about the tax paid by those with the most money – reduced tax on pensioners, reintroduced gift tax deductions, facilitating generational shifts in companies, increased RUT and the abolition of air tax. On point-by-point, therefore, your policy is to reduce the tax burden on those who are best off and to pay for it by reducing this effort on start-up aid which, according to CSN's report, actually reaches the right target groups. The country's municipalities and organisers say that if they had retained this, they would probably have used it to the same extent as in 2018. But they also say that they would like to change the use of it. It is also because we have changed the regulatory system so that it is easier to use this money. I wonder how it will be better to reduce the tax burden on those who are best off and allow those who need more effort to stand without it.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-941	Madam President, I would like We want something that works and spend 100 million extra for 2019 on various forms of study grants. When we saw that the system did not work – there was a lot of criticism of it both from the Public Employment Service and from municipalities who said that people did not apply for this – we felt that we had to fund this in a different way and give other opportunities, such as apprenticeships, learning at work and so on. It's not about us not wanting people to get into education. Of course we do. And, of course, we want those who are far removed from the labour market to enter. That is why we are also investing a great deal in other forms of aid. But we saw that this was uneconomic. Then we do not think it is a good funding. We will invest in positive things that help the people who are far from the labour market and should, for example, enter their first studies.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-943	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. However, I have to say that I have no answer to the very question I asked: how are we going to help the short-skilled, the newly arrived and the unemployed to actually get this opportunity to come in? As I said in my speech, I agree that this effort is not fully exploited. But we see in CSN evaluations that things are moving in the right direction. More and more municipalities are in this system, and more and more individuals are in this system. When you look at what they themselves say, they are very pleased. They say: Thank you very much, I got a chance to actually go from unemployment to education. We see that very many of them end up in shortage jobs, such as nurses. Or they may be able to get out of school. An important issue for us to discuss in the Education Committee is that more adults come out to school. As I said, I lack answers to the questions that are big today, about how to give the groups that need it most a chance to get into the study aid system and into the labour market.
i-d76a5ee06d4b210f-947	Madam President, I would like The study funding system aims to ensure that everyone has a real opportunity to study at higher education institutions, universities or universities of applied sciences, but also at Komvux and at our folk high schools. Although student time can be a tough time economically – not least the housing situation and the housing market with high housing costs can cause it for many students – the study funding system is a basis for the idea that no one should have to refrain from studying because they cannot afford it. We have a strong system in Sweden. It is basically a generous system that we have and that stands out well in an international perspective. It is important that we have an inclusive system, a democratic system and a generous and understandable system. A broad and inclusive education system strengthens the individual, society, the labour market and, of course, democracy. We live in a knowledge-based society, where the labour market demands a large proportion of trained staff. The role of the community, society, is to train according to the needs of the labour market. But we also need a width. Subjects that are, to a large extent, actually removed today, for example in the humanities, are not only needed in their targeting role within their own labour market, but also in order for us to be able to interpret our environment. There is therefore a purpose in that not only do all students study streamlined and targeted courses but that we have an educational and study funding system that is permitting, so that students dare to study perhaps one or a couple of semesters or some courses outside the framework of the intended degree. That is also why I note with pride that the government has implemented an increase in the funding of studies. We have increased the grant part by about SEK 300 per month and thus provided a slightly larger framework for students to live on their student funds. Madam President, I would like There are many advantages to students having the opportunity to work alongside their studies. They have a clearer link to the labour market and are likely to have a much greater chance of establishing themselves and getting a post-graduate job. But we also know – I see this in my role as a university teacher – that the work is stressful for students, prevents them from concentrating on their full-time studies and in too many cases keeps them away from mandatory seminars and lectures. When students miss important lessons, there is a risk that the exam will be postponed in time or, at worst, may never happen. I therefore believe that the proposal for an age-differentiated free amount, which aims to speed up the pace of study for young students and to enable further training and the transition of older people, could be a very good one if it is properly designed. The Green Party has also been pushing for a long time the issue of lifelong learning and precisely the possibility of transition further into working life and above the age range. I am therefore pleased that, in the agreement with the Social Democrats, the Centre Party and the Liberals, we have a point on this very subject, that is to say that the study aid system should be made possible for more elderly people through increased age limits. We will do this by 2021 at the latest. Madam President, I would like With this relatively short speech, I would like to endorse the proposal in the committee's report and reject all motions and reservations.
