i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-3	Before we start the debate, I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that, among the audience, we have Armenia's ambassador Alexander Arzoumanian in today's debate.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-4	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating an enhanced cooperation agreement between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand and the Republic of Armenia on the other. I would first of all like to support the committee's proposal. Mr President, I would like to The Eastern Partnership was established in 2009 on the initiative of Sweden and the Government of Reinfeldt. It was a very well-lawed initiative that was taken with Poland. The other Member States of the European Union were also involved. The Eastern Partnership is the EU's neighbourhood policy vis-à-vis the six Member States Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, Ukraine and Belarus. The aim is to promote the political association and economic integration of partner countries with the EU. Today we are taking a position on the cooperation agreement with Armenia. Last spring the velvet revolution took place in Armenia. Eventually, new elections took place. Finally, the leader of the velvet revolution, Nikol Pasjinian, had to form a government. Since then, there have been many hopes that Armenia will take very many steps forward in terms of respect for human rights, the elimination of corruption, gender equality and the reduction of economic divides, and in terms of ending the long-standing conflict with Azerbaijan regarding the enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh. For a long time, the EU has been engaged in mediation in the conflict, and now there is at least some hope that it will make some progress. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's and Armenia's relations are good. In March, the Minister for International Development Cooperation, Peter Eriksson, Armenia and Georgia visited. The Committee on Foreign Affairs visited Armenia in the winter of 2017. There is a good soil for further development of relations between Sweden and Armenia and, of course, also between the EU and Armenia. The EU-Armenia cooperation agreement can lead in many steps to the right degree in terms of democratic transparency and respect for the principles of the rule of law. The starting point, however, is a bit gloomy. Unfortunately, Armenia is in place in Transparency International's corruption index 105 out of 180 with an average score of 35 out of 100. There have been many steps. We are well aware of that. But that is definitely not enough. It is about trust and understanding and respect for the political system. It is also about voters wanting to support the political system. That is why the fight against corruption is crucial for a country to become a fully functioning democracy. There is also a need for a proper upgrading of gender equality work. It is about equal pay, a complete removal of the norm of sex-selective abortions, which unfortunately means the removal of female foetuses, a tough work against violence in close relationships, equal political representation, locally and nationally, and simply intensive work against gender stereotypes. I know that the current Prime Minister and Government have taken many steps, and I look forward to continuing to do so. The promotion of human rights for LGBT people must also be a priority. Hate crimes and persecution must be punishable. The homophobia must be educated away. Of course, we respect the cultural identity of each country, but human rights are and remain universal. Each country must therefore actively work on the promotion of human rights. Mr President, I would like to Bnp growth is 71⁄2 percent, which is really good. Armenia is thriving economically, and it is a developing country that is moving in the right direction. Bnp per capita is 38 000 SEK, which of course cannot be compared to Sweden's 470 000 SEK. But this shows that there is potential for further development. For example, I am sure that a marked increase in female employment rates would increase GDP. That is why the cooperation agreement is important. It provides a good basis for increased trade between Armenia and the EU and in this way increases in prosperity in Armenia as well as in the EU. I believe Armenia will continue to develop positively. The new government has given uplifting signals. It is a question of delivering, a little like Macedonia, which now has a positive political trend and a calmly growing prosperity development thanks to investment in minimum wages, pensions and more. It could work in Armenia, too. We Social Democrats welcome the cooperation agreement and look forward to continued good cooperation with Armenia, Mr President.
i-WmV9HyeWsay8rPnchc94EQ	Mr President, I would like to As the previous speaker said, the subject we are now debating is enhanced partnership and cooperation agreements between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Armenia, on the other. It is now ten years since the Eastern Partnership between the EU and the six Eastern European countries was established as an initiative by Sweden and Poland. This important cooperation has produced many positive results, but we can still do more. Each country has its own specific challenges and conditions, but there are also common opportunities for development. The enhanced Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, which we are now debating, is intended to replace the existing Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, which was signed in 1996 and entered into force in 1999. Negotiations on the enhanced Partnership and Cooperation Agreement started in December 2015, and the Agreement was signed on 24 November 2017. The agreement aims to deepen political and economic relations between the EU and Armenia and is essentially based on a common respect for democracy, human rights, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law. The agreement provides for cooperation in a number of areas, including trade, the environment, energy, taxation, culture, tourism, agriculture, health, science, technology, transport and education. A broad perspective, in other words, and that is exactly what is needed for a country to develop in a positive spirit. Armenia is a small and vulnerable country. But there is hope for this country in the southern Caucasus, in the EU's eastern neighbourhood. It is a country where many people still live in poverty, especially in rural areas, but there are opportunities for development. The positive developments in Armenia over the last year can be seen as largely related to cooperation between the EU and Armenia within the framework of the Eastern Partnership and the existing cooperation agreement. The new cooperation agreement, which we are now debating, aims to further strengthen Armenia in terms of democracy, human rights and the economy. In particular, I would like to mention a few areas that I find urgent. The first area is corruption and the rule of law. It is essential to combat corruption, because it is about trust in society and trust in democratic institutions. Combating corruption is also important when it comes to judicial reform. But it is also about combating poverty. A society characterised by corruption becomes ineffective and does not deliver the public services necessary to enable positive development. Here I would like to mention in particular that, on the part of the European Union, when the cooperation agreement enters into force, there is an intention to offer consular protection to the citizens of Armenia. Armenia, for its part, has to fulfil commitments to further develop cooperation in civil and criminal matters through the implementation of international and bilateral instruments. Mr President, I would like to Another important area is human rights. These need to be strengthened. Civil liberties form the basis of a democratic society. In all its cooperation agreements, including this, the EU focuses on gender equality, human rights and non-discrimination. Like the previous speaker, I would like to mention here women's rights and opportunities and LGBT people's rights as important issues. I will mention one more area. This is about access to impartial information. It is a pillar of a free society. Russia is often a sender who risks undermining the political development of its neighbours. It is therefore important that Armenia continues to develop independent journalism and uses the EU's cooperation agreements to this end. I say this because without free access to impartial information and legal certainty for journalists, it is difficult to achieve a free society. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to mention the area of trade, exports and a functioning market economy. These are important issues when it comes to developing a country. Without functioning trade, without functioning companies and without work, there is no development. This is the basis for the development we have seen in Europe. It is also the root cause of Europe's desire to continue developing cooperation with the outside world. Not only do I want to mention problems, but I would also like to mention a few positive points. One example is that the IMF stated in February that it estimates that Armenia's economy is developing positively. That is, of course, extremely good. I would also like to mention the Freedom House Freedom Index, where Armenia has climbed another six points upwards. There is more to do for freedom, but as things stand, Armenia is moving in the right direction. I would like to conclude by saying that I have visited Armenia a large number of times, and what has impressed me is the hospitality that exists in the country. But I also think of the woman I met in the countryside, who sadly told me that none of her children or grandchildren were still in the country. They had emigrated to seek employment elsewhere. True, they sent home money, which was excellent, but the old lady would have liked to have seen her sons and daughters still in Armenia. I am also thinking of the silversmith I met at a market in Yerevan. He said there was no outlet for his products. There were no Armenians who bought his silver work, Mr President. There were also no tourists who bought his silver work. I believe that if Armenia develops, if the Armenians develop their country and make sure to use the new cooperation agreement in a positive way, both the old lady will be able to welcome her relatives home as well as the silversmith to experience that his work finds a market. It will be a positive development that is growing more and more.
i-XpDzvbSFLtTkVWJwX2TAQo	Mr President, I would like to The Parliament shall decide to approve the Agreement on enhanced partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Armenia, of the other part. The Agreement replaces the existing Partnership and Cooperation Agreement signed in 1996 and entered into force in 1999. Relations with Armenia have deepened in recent years on many different levels. Sweden's bilateral relations with Armenia were formally established as early as 1992 and, in particular during the last term of office, has intensified by prioritising its outgoing visits in particular to the Eastern Partnership countries. On several occasions both Members and Presidents have been on official visits to the country. Recent developments in Armenia also deserve attention. Last April, a revolution took place when journalist Nikol Pasjinian raised increasing popular opposition to the current Prime Minister Serzj Sargsyan of the Republican Party. There were probably many of us who for several days anxiously followed developments and what happened. Unfortunately, the world has seen too many uprisings beaten down by force of sitting power. But Armenia showed a democratic maturity that is worthy of all respect. They also treated each other with respect. The losing side took the loss as worthy democratic politicians. I had the privilege of being one of the first official foreign visitors after the revolution when I visited Armenia last May as second vice-president. I took the opportunity to praise the Armenians for their way of handling the revolution and said that they deserve the support and respect of the outside world for their democratic maturity. I therefore welcome the proposal for enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement with Armenia. The aim of the agreement is to further strengthen bilateral relations and political dialogue between the EU and Armenia and to improve trade and investment opportunities between the parties. I am also pleased that the Swedish business community, according to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, has recently shown increased interest in the country. Today, our exports to Armenia amount to only about SEK 150 million per year and our imports to incredibly modest about SEK 3 million. There is, of course, potential to increase both exports and imports. I believe that the fight against corruption is crucial here. Mr President, I would like to The agreement is divided into eight different parts, of which I wanted to mention two in particular. The Agreement emphasises that specific areas to be covered by cooperation and dialogue are foreign and security policy, serious crimes concerning the international community and the International Criminal Court, conflict prevention and crisis management, regional stability and peaceful conflict resolution, disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, combating the illegal proliferation of small and light weapons and controlling the export of conventional weapons, and combating terrorism. This is, of course, both urgent and welcome. We need more players in the world with whom we work on these issues. It is also good that the agreement establishes a framework for cooperation on the principles of the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the protection of personal data, migration, asylum and border management, the mobility of persons and the fight against organised crime, corruption, drug crime, money laundering and terrorist financing. The agreement further develops many different areas, thus providing a long-term basis for the development of relations between the EU – and thereby Sweden – and Armenia. By intensifying political dialogue and improving cooperation in these areas, it also provides the basis for a more effective bilateral engagement with Armenia. I therefore support the committee's proposal. To conclude, Mr President, while we are discussing Armenia and relations between the various parties governed by agreements, I cannot fail to mention something about the genocide of 1915, when more than 1.5 million people, mainly Armenians, were murdered by the Turks of the then Ottoman Empire. On 11 March 2010, the Riksdag decided that the Swedish Government should recognise the genocide. In the 2014 election movement, Stefan Löfven visited Södertälje and promised to push the question that the government would recognise the genocide if the Social Democrats won the elections. In an interview with Assyria TV he said: That is absolutely my objective. ..................................................... But as usual, it was only empty words from Stefan Löfven in order to win support. Because once he won the election and became Prime Minister, it sounded completely different, and the government has not recognised the genocide. I think it is shameful – not only that the current government, led by Stefan Löfven, does not do what the Riksdag has announced to the government, but that the Löfven also breaks a promise he has personally made. It shows how unreliable this government and the Prime Minister are. In Armenia, the current Minister of State understood Mr Sargsyan when it was time to leave his post. Unfortunately, Stefan Löfven has not yet come to the same understanding. I would like to emphasise once again that the Swedish Democrats share Parliament's decision that recognition of the genocide should be made by the government.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-41	Mr President, I would like to I, too, am pleased to welcome the ambassador here to Parliament and this debate, as we shall now highlight the deepening of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the EU and its Member States, such as Sweden, and Armenia. I am pleased because I hope we have been able to take this step earlier, Mr President. We certainly had an ambition and a hope that ten years ago we could reach a common trade and association agreement. Then our hopes fell on Russia and President Putin coming between us. This was something that we deeply regretted, but of course we respect the independent positions of each country. Against this background, Mr President, it is a good thing that we can now reconnect and have been able to take steps to find a new partnership and cooperation agreement after the old one from 1999. For ten years we have had the Eastern Partnership – it is ten years when we could have an association agreement. Today, however, we are taking the step towards a partnership and cooperation agreement that has been upgraded and offers new opportunities. Armenia is an amazingly beautiful country. I have had the joy of traveling not only in the capital but also in the countryside. I've been an election monitor and I've done other things in Armenia. It is a country in the southern Caucasus which, of course, has great challenges. I have also followed the work from the perspective of the Council of Europe, where we have looked at developments in terms of democratic status, the rule of law and human rights. Of course, there are things to do in Armenia, as in all other countries. The road to democracy and the functioning of the rule of law, where human rights and freedoms exist for all and where corruption is combated, is so important to give the country and its people hope for a better future. At the same time, it is important to underline the need for Armenia to emerge from the stranglehold created by the ongoing conflicts in the region. Clearly, this is an obstacle to a positive future. There is always something that some external actor can tickle with. That is why a peaceful way forward and a solution to the conflicts that exist are of course very crucial – also for young people, who have previously been affected, to feel that they have hope for the future. In 2015, 30 per cent of the country's population were reported to be living in poverty. Most Armenians live outside the country. This is evident not least when you are an election monitor and discuss these issues. It is clear that, at the same time, this is an opportunity – with the agreement moving upwards in terms of welfare in the country and forwards in terms of hope for people and young people, investment and trade, and, as I said, of getting a system in place that creates the conditions for future welfare. It must be a welfare that comes to everyone's attention in order to feel that Armenia is a country of the future. I hope we can do that. The agreement is not as far-reaching as the association agreement, but it is a step along the way. There is always the possibility of moving forward in the future. Our starting point is that every country that chooses to come closer, for example with EU membership in perspective, should have that opportunity. This also applies, of course, to Armenia, if that is the case. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. This is welcome and important, and I hope it is a good basis for future good relations and prosperity for the people of Armenia.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-50	Mr President, I would like to Mr. Ambassador! Welcome to the Swedish Parliament. I would also like to begin by calling for the committee's request to approve the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement between the European Union and Armenia. This year, as several speakers have pointed out, it is ten years since the Eastern Partnership was established. The partnership was created to strengthen cooperation between the EU and six Eastern European countries, of which Armenia is one. The Christian Democrats have been actively working from the outset to develop and strengthen the Eastern Partnership. As a party, we recognise the importance of cooperation and reconciliation between the countries of Europe. We highlight the importance of Sweden always working to support democracy, human rights, the rule of law and gender equality. We therefore welcome the new Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with Armenia, the aim of which is to develop bilateral relations and political dialogue, but also to promote trade and investment and to strengthen Armenia's democratic and market economy development. Democratic reforms and a clear political ambition to combat corruption are always of central importance. In this respect, Armenia's parliamentary elections in December last year were a success and provide the conditions necessary for further positive developments. At the same time, it is clear that Armenia is facing geopolitical challenges. In the context of the Eastern Partnership, the EU must therefore step up efforts for peace between Armenia and neighbouring Azerbaijan. Since the war in 1994, Nagorno-Karabakh has been a region isolated from the rest of the world. Peace talks have been held within the framework of the OSCE Minsk Group, but there is no structured dialogue between Armenia and Azerbaijan. The situation is complicated by international law. Azerbaijan is opposed to UN Security Council resolutions. At the same time, it cannot be ignored that both Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh are developing in a democratic direction, while the dictatorship in Azerbaijan is leading the country in the wrong direction. After last year's visit to Nagorno-Karabakh, I can see that its inhabitants, supported by Armenia, are doing their best to now build a functioning social system. Yet it is clear that greater engagement from the outside world is needed to assist both Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh. The fact that this forgotten conflict is being put on the EU's agenda as soon as possible is a necessity. In fact, this is the only opportunity to create confidence and long-term stability in this troubled part of the EU's neighbourhood. Mr President, I would like to In Armenia's capital Yerevan there is a memorial where a quote, engraved with black text, meets the visitor. It says: Who today remembers the extermination of the Armenians? The question is formulated by Adolf Hitler and was expressed in 1939 in Nazi Germany's cold-blooded planning of the Holocaust. The Yerevan Monument is built to honor the 1 1⁄2 million Armenians who lost their lives over 100 years ago in the genocide carried out in the Ottoman Empire in 1915. The abuse of Armenians, Assyrians/Syrians and Pontic Greeks is one of history's dark chapters and a bleak fact that has not rarely been relativised. To remember history is to take responsibility and show respect, but it is also to draw conclusions and act so that the tremendous thing that happened does not happen again. An increasing number of governments and national parliaments admit that it was the worst and most abominable crimes of international law that were committed in 1915. The European Parliament has recognised the genocide, the Swedish Parliament has taken the same decision, and many with me are waiting for recognition from the Swedish Government. An official Swedish recognition of the Armenian genocide is basically a question of decency and a way of showing humanity and solidarity with the victims and their relatives. It is a way of further deepening relations with Armenia and its people alongside the important partnership and cooperation agreement which we have the great pleasure today of voting in favour of.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-63	Mr President, I would like to The first time I got acquainted with Armenia and the Armenians were in the early 1990s. My grandfather had had a stroke and ended up in a retirement home in Akalla, Stockholm, where one to two shelf metres of books had been taken. One of the books – I started reading it when we visited my grandfather – was My Loved Armenia. It was written by a woman named Marie Sarrafian Banker and was published in a Swedish publishing house in the 1930s. It was about the abuse of Armenians in the Ottoman Empire in the 19th century. I have only seen this book in one place since then, and it was precisely in the genocide museum that is in Yerevan, the capital of Armenia, next to the genocide monument. I saw the book in an exhibition there, about how Scandinavian women, who often worked as missionaries, helped Armenian children during the 1915 genocide. The book My Loved Armenia appeared there. I mention this, because for me, as a fairly young person in Sweden, it was a kind of alarm clock, parallel to the things you read in school about the Holocaust and other things, that made me somewhere begin to understand these enormous crimes and how important it is to stand up for democracy. For the Armenians, it has been a rather long and arduous journey bordered by major disasters – on the one hand, the 1915 genocide during the collapse of the Ottoman Empire, and on the other hand, it was a part of the Soviet Union and the Eastern bloc – with huge deaths for Armenians during the First World War along the Russian front against the Ottoman Empire, during the Second World War and then, of course, the great earthquake in the late 1980s and the Karabach War until 1994. It is therefore gratifying to see that the people of this country, who have tried to stand on their own feet but have so often suffered tragedies, basically left the house last year and demanded political changes, and there was a peaceful transition where the former President stepped aside. Since then, parliamentary elections have been held and, under the leadership of Mr Pasjinian, this agreement and enhanced relations with the European Union have now been reached. It is very positive that in the world in which we now live, which is bordered by setbacks and a decline in the rule of law and democracy, there is a small country like Armenia. Furthermore, Armenia is extremely dependent on Russia for its own security, not least with regard to Nagorno-Karabakh. There is also a blockade from Turkey and Azerbaijan and a massive diplomatic sniper from these countries in various international contexts. It is very gratifying that a country that is so small and has had such great problems is still taking such positive steps forward. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to support the committee's proposal. The agreement that we now have to deal with in Parliament means that we can deepen trade relations with Armenia. It is positive for Europe, for Sweden and above all for Armenia, which now has the opportunity to open more doors to the outside world and can reduce its dependence on Russia, which is obviously in the interests of the Armenians. This also means following the principle of more for more, more for more – i.e. that if a country makes improvements it should be able to have better relations, so that developments in the country provide leverage in the form of enhanced relations with the European Union. It is therefore entirely in the interests of the Armenian politicians, the Armenian Parliament and the Armenian Government to make improvements, to combat corruption, to strengthen the rule of law in the country and so on, because this, in turn, leads to further deepening of relations with the European Union, which the Armenians very much want. Mr President, I would like to With these words, I thank you for giving me the great honour of giving a speech on this important subject on my own birthday.
i-2kyMwCphJ1n77wUSXKXkMz	Mr President, I would like to We are now examining the annual report on the Riksbank's administration. I therefore support the committee's proposal. The committee's basis for the preparation is of course the annual report for Sveriges Riksbank 2018. It is also the Board of Governors' proposal for a distribution of profits and the National Audit Office's report on the Audit Report of the Riksbank's Annual Report 2018. A united committee proposes that the Board of Governors and the Executive Board be granted discharge in respect of the administration in 2018, that the Riksbank's profit and loss account be determined and that the Board of Governors' proposal for the disposition of the Riksbank's profits in 2018 be approved. According to the established profit sharing principle, this means that the Riksbank will deliver SEK 3,800 million to the Treasury no later than one week after the Riksdag's decision for 2018. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish economy continued to grow in 2018, and for most of 2018, the Riksbank has continued to pursue a very expansionary monetary policy. Inflation as measured by CPIF, i.e. the change in the consumer price index at fixed interest rates, was 2 per cent in the year around the target. At the beginning of the year it was slightly below the target, but from May to December it was slightly above the target. Inflationary expectations in society were also around the target in 2018. The repo rate was held at − 0.5 per cent until December, when the Executive Board decided to increase by 0.25 per cent to − 0.25 per cent. In fact, it was the first increase in interest rates since 2011. The Executive Board then decided that the repo rate would continue to rise in small steps. At the end of 2017, the Executive Board decided no longer to carry out new net purchases of Swedish government bonds. However, it was decided in 2018 to reinvest the major maturity of bonds and coupon payments that would come in the first half of 2019. The Riksbank's holdings of government bonds increased by SEK 65 billion in 2018. In the Monetary Policy Report in October, the Riksbank revised its forecast of the long-term level of the real krona price. In the new assessment it was expected to be lower than in the last assessment one of the long-term level of the krona price, which was made in 2013. Mr President, I would like to During 2018, the Riksbank assessed that the financial system in Sweden was functioning well, but at the same time it pointed to households' high indebtedness as the greatest risk against this and proposed several measures. We recognise the debate on household debt and borrowing. The Riksbank also recommended strengthened liquidity reserves in both SEK and foreign currency to counteract risks in the Swedish banking system. The Bank considered that the financial infrastructure was essentially functioning well but actually flagged for the slightly elevated operational risks, including risks of cyber attacks. During 2018, the Riksbank continued its work on the e-krona project. There will be a discussion in the future as to whether this will be a reality. It remains to be seen, but work is still under way. As the Speaker is well aware, the Riksbank, the world's oldest central bank, celebrated its 350th anniversary last year, which was also recognised here in Parliament. The Riksbank's profit amounted to just over SEK 3.5 billion, which was a decrease of SEK 400 million compared to 2017, mainly due to the fact that in 2017, no depreciation was carried out as large as in 2018. The value of the gold and currency reserve – it may be of interest to the members of the Riksdag – amounted to SEK 534 billion in the previous year, which is an increase of SEK 26 billion. Essentially, this is due to the weaker crown. It is also important for the Riksdag to know that the Riksbank's commitments to the International Monetary Fund in 2018 amounted to SEK 228 billion, which is an increase of 7.1 billion compared to 2017. Mr President, I would like to I would particularly like to draw the attention of the Riksdag to the fact that the Riksbank's balance sheet has increased sharply over the past ten years, from just over 210 billion at the end of 2007 to 935 billion at the end of 2018. In 2018, the balance sheet total increased by SEK 65 billion as a result of an increase in the value of the foreign exchange reserve, which was in turn a result of the weakening of the krona and of reinvestments in bond defaults and coupon payments. Finally, Mr President, the Swedish gold reserve weighs 125.7 tonnes, which represents a value of SEK 46 billion. This is 2.8 billion more than in 2017. This is true even though the gold price in dollars fell by 1.5 percent. Since the crown weakened against the doll rn, the gold yielded 6.5 percent. So the gold didn't turn into sand last year.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-85	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision. Four years ago, the Riksbank developed a strategic plan with a view to the anniversary year 2018. The strategic objectives were to be forward-looking. They were about being a central bank that contributes to stable economic development for households and companies in Sweden, which produces high quality results and communicates in an easily accessible and clear way. During 2018, the Riksbank, which is the world's oldest central bank, has turned 350 years. And we can look back on a good year in many respects, where the Riksbank has largely met these objectives. Over a year with continued expansionary monetary policy, inflation has been close to the target of 2 per cent. In December, monetary policy was slightly less expansionary when the repo rate was raised to − 0.25 per cent. The Swedish economy has had a favourable development, and the Swedish financial system has worked well. On 22 September – on the day 350 years after the foundation of the Riksbank's Estates Bank, later the Sveriges Riksbank – the Riksbank's gates were opened to the public. They arranged tours and told us about art and architecture. Real gold bars were displayed on public display, as well as a copy of the world's largest copper coins. Governor Ingves and his colleagues in the Executive Board offered all kinds of lectures. The anniversary was celebrated throughout 2018 with a large number of activities both for employees and for the public. There was a jubilee tour around Sweden. I witnessed the tour stop in Luleå, where a lecture was given on the theme: From copper coins to e-krona. Another important feature of the anniversary activities was the anniversary conference – on the theme of the central banks' role in the past, present and future – which the Riksbank held together with the Riksdag. During 2018, the largest exchange of notes and coins took place in the history of Sweden. It ended on 30 June, which was the last date when the invalid 100- and 500-krona banknotes could be redeemed into a bank. The Swedish economy, Mr President, continued to grow in 2018. The economic situation in the rest of the world was also relatively strong, although GDP growth slowed slightly compared to previous years. As a small, open economy, Sweden is greatly affected by developments in the outside world. Although inflation has been close to the Riksbank's target for a long time, there has been uncertainty about the underlying wage and price pressure. The Riksbank therefore continued to conduct an expansionary monetary policy in 2018 with the aim of safeguarding the inflation target and contributing to good economic development. The repo rate was kept unchanged until the last monetary policy meeting in December, when it was decided to increase the repo rate from −0.5 per cent to − 0.25 per cent. The economic cycle was strong, and inflation and inflation expectations were established around 2 per cent. It was therefore considered appropriate to reduce monetary policy support slightly. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Riksbank, the world's oldest central bank, on its successful 350th anniversary in 2018.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-97	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only ask for reservation 7. Housing policy, planning and construction, yes. Sweden must have more housing. It's never been more important. Housing policy and the importance of more housing are among the biggest societal challenges in Sweden. According to Boverket's forecast, 600,000 new homes are needed by 2025. In addition, despite an increasingly severe housing shortage, housing construction is now raging in Sweden, which is the last thing we need in the housing crisis. A few weeks ago, Mr President, we stood here wondering what the Minister for Housing Per Bolund is really doing. It is obviously not housing policy. Then the housing minister, as we have hardly seen since then, in SVT's News on the question of what he was going to do against the devastating consequences of the housing crisis for young people, had casually replied: ..................................................... Sweden's primarily responsible housing politicians, who sit with ministerial responsibility, thus deal with a heel kick and a reference to magic wands the big social problem that he himself is set to handle. Nonchalant reference to wands does not help young people whose opportunities are severely affected by the housing crisis in general and the government's latest amortisation requirements in particular. Nor, Mr President, does it help all the elderly who feel that they cannot sell their too large homes, usually villas, and move to a smaller and more accessible home. And it does not help those who, in the midst of life, have changed living conditions, such as those who are divorced but cannot move apart or those who are lonely and need housing quickly. Sweden's housing crisis is hitting almost everything and everyone. We also hear about companies that are thinking of moving from Sweden precisely because their employees cannot find a home. Moreover, on all of this, Mr President, the enormous migration challenge is being put in place. The only housing-related proposals put forward so far by the government are, on the one hand, a proposal that building permit-free terraces, something that has not been taken into account in the past, and, on the other hand, proposals aimed at reducing the black trade in housing. With all due respect, Mr President, we are all free of building permits. But don't tell me that it will have some major impact on the housing crisis! By the way, building exemption for patios was the only one in the January agreement, the 73-point program between S, C, L and MP, which could be implemented without investigation. Otherwise, everything should be buried in investigations and done as late as possible in the parliamentary term, which means that hardly anything will be fully implemented. Mr President, I would like to If the government feels so clearly inconvenient in housing policy and certainly does not want to take on board Moderates' housing policy entrances, they can read the Swedish report presented by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) a few months ago. It states that fundamental reforms of the housing market, in particular of the leasing system, taxes and building rules, which we are discussing here today, are necessary to combat inequality. Mr President, I would like to I will quickly and roughly sum up the moderate entrances to housing policy. We have four main entrances: Firstly, there are radical simplifications across the board. There may sometimes be an overconfidence in simplifications in Sweden, but what we mean by radical simplifications is that you cut perhaps one third of the total planning and construction process. What simplifications will be required? You have to start by establishing that very ambition. I can say here and now that there is not a single simplification that anyone might propose in the Swedish Parliament that we Moderates will not be in favour of. Once again, Mr President, we are talking about radical simplifications across the board. This applies to everything from noise and beach protection to appeals, which we are also discussing here today, and the planning and construction process. Secondly, it is about the possibility of owning one's dwelling. The property is the foundation of the housing market. That must also be the basis of housing policy. The Moderates are a party that believes in social mobility. Given that the home is the only wealth for 90 per cent of Swedes, it is obvious to us that we need to develop the possibilities for those with low incomes in particular to buy and own their housing. An investment in the owned housing will also in itself be an investment in housing production. Thirdly, we are talking about rentals and rents. We want broad, cross-block discussions where we can hopefully come up with proposals on a less regulated leasing system throughout the stock. We can also envisage discussions to promote rented housing, but not inefficient investment aid that takes time and money from the rest. Fourthly, Mr President, it is about taxation, mobility and the exploitation of existing stocks. Of course, any review of housing-related taxes has a major impact on the state budget. This is precisely why we also need broad, cross-block housing policy deliberations that stimulate mobility and enable us to use our main resource, i.e. the existing stock, far better than we can today. Mr President, I would like to Policies for housing, planning and construction in Sweden need to be radically changed and changed.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-115	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by saying that we support all the reservations of the Swedish Democrats. However, for time winning, I choose to apply only for reservation 34 on the rules for building permits and notification cases. Today we are discussing the report on planning and construction. We have often discussed the great need to build housing in Sweden. We all know that huge numbers of homes need to be built over a very long period of time in order to re-establish a balance in the housing market. We also know that it requires major challenges because those in need of housing often also find it difficult to take the homes that are currently being built and offered. But there is also a need to make sure to build the homes that are currently in demand – to start by having thought-out plans and to ensure that the homes that are currently being built in Sweden are not stressed out. It is important to include this aspect now that we are actually facing a period in which we have built a great deal. Housing construction is falling, but we will continue to have to build a lot. It is important, then, that we do not, in fact, rush forward proposals which mean that perhaps new million programme areas are being built with the problems that we saw at the time. Housing, residential areas and the housing environment bring with them great synergies. It is not just a matter of providing shelter, it is a question of creating the effects of well-being, security and community in society. It is also about building aesthetically beautiful buildings that make people feel comfortable in and around their home. It is about people feeling safe and that the residential areas are well thought out where the security aspect has been taken into account. Today, insecurity and increased crime are spreading in society. We see the effects of this in very many areas. Here, housing policy is extremely important in order to bring these areas with us when we are planning for future housing. One needs to be sure to build and restructure around the unsafe areas that we see in Sweden today but also around all the other areas that we have in Sweden today and which were not so well thought out when they were built. I mention once again the million-programme areas as a good example. It is important that you do not continue to build up new problems just because there is a great need to build housing in Sweden. It is important to have good foresight in this area and have good planning for the housing that is being built. The Swedish Democrats have 13 reservations in this report. These reservations describe parts of our proposals to be able to implement exactly what I have mentioned – to build more housing, to build housing that is needed today for large groups but also to build together and security, to build the aesthetically beautiful buildings and building environments that we need in Sweden today. We have proposals for common building regulations in the Nordic countries. We know that the Minister for Housing has been pushing this issue since we tabled this proposal. We also see that this proposal could mean a great deal of savings to bring down the costs of building housing. We have proposed cultural planning to ensure that the cultural aspect is taken into account and that beautiful environments are created when areas are built. We have proposed citizen involvement, which means that people are actually involved in influencing their environment and that housing and housing environments are being built that people actually want and that people will be happy there, i.e. involving the people who live there. We also want to see a central coordinator for questions about architecture and the living environment. The Boverket will have this role to ensure that someone is watching these issues and that we have a coordination to create what the Swedish Democrats think is so important when it comes to the future residential areas. We also want to abolish what the government introduced, i.e. the fixed-term building permits. We believe that this means creating new exclusion areas when allowing short-term construction of housing that will also be able to be moved in the future. We believe that it creates new exclusion areas and new problem areas rather than, as we hope, a number of new housing. Mr President, I would like to With these words, I am in favour of reservation 34.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-129	Mr President, I would like to The report contains a total of 48 reservations and eight specific opinions. The amount of proposals in this area clearly illustrates that Swedish housing policy should be changed. Not much has happened. On the contrary, it has become worse. The problems I described about a year ago in this speaker's chair are about the same. The pace of construction continues to decline. We have never been close to reaching the construction targets, if by that we mean the forecasts compiled by Boverket where it is said that 600 000 homes would be needed by 2025. Mr President, I would like to You can't live in a prognosis. Nor can we move into a January agreement. That is why I will not hold back the criticism of the policies that have been pursued so far. I will not stop talking about the total of eight proposals put forward by the Center Party in this area of housing policy, i.e. planning and construction. The Center Party demands that the government listens to us and anyone who wants to leave home, move to a place to study, seek a new job, move with someone or move apart. While we are in the process of fundamentally reforming the rental model, redirecting the construction subsidies so that they can have an impact and concentrate to reach the whole country, banning the black trade and the purchase of secondary apartments, and reforming the beach protection to make it easier to build near-shore areas where exploitation pressures are low, we want to go further in terms of shortening planning processes and making them more predictable. Mr President, I would like to The purpose of our policy is for more people to dare to put the spade in the ground and start building, even in places where it has previously been considered impossible, for example in many of Sweden's small municipalities in places that are covered by national interests where there may be suspicion that there is a strong criticism from groups that oppose new neighbours or a certain type of accommodation or where there are wishes from many to settle but where there is too much noise – above the limit values measured by facade, that is, outside the dwelling. But, Mr President, you cannot live in a building permit or move into a starting decision either. More ready-made housing is needed, and preferably at a cost that makes them affordable for those who are far from the housing market. Mobility is required, which means that the new housing that is added will start moving chains and create a housing market where one will one day be able to find an apartment and move in a few days later without thinking about the rental system with which the rent is set. The noise limit values have been listed, and it is today permitted to build in environments that are more exposed to environmental noise than was previously possible. This change was the result of the then S-MP government receiving a majority here in Parliament against itself. Of course they protested. However, I believe that most people today agree that the housing provided by this change is welcome. Disturbance sounds can be closed out with good windows, noise barriers and wall insulation. Today, the noise is measured by façade and therefore does not reflect the actual sound to which it is exposed. Therefore, the Center Party wants the government to listen to us and change the regulations, so that environmental noise is measured on the inside of the house and not like today on the outside of the house. That is why I am in favour of reservation 31 from the Center Party. Many who are in contact with building permits officers feel that they are denied permission, even though they believe that they have done the right thing and that the application is within the framework of what should be allowed. The Government can do more to encourage municipalities to apply the principle of a reversal of the burden of proof, in which it is for the administrator to demonstrate urgently what is necessary for the applicants to be granted building permits. Another major concern is that many municipalities apply special requirements in that they require documents that are not necessary for their approval, their building permits. This also affects individuals who rely on delivery from one of our many talented and successful producers of climate-smart and serially manufactured houses. Mr President, I would like to The right to transparency and to appeal against decisions by public authorities is protected by the constitutional provision on freedom of expression. Anyone who considers that they have been subject to an incorrect decision by the authorities must also be able to have it tested at the highest level. That order must remain in place. Nor should it be reserved for resourceful persons to be able to appeal. Decisions shall be taken as closely as possible to those concerned and in dialogue with those critical of a construction project. But, Mr President, it is going to be excessive when, for example, a nature conservation association in a neighbouring municipality is allowed to have its appeal against a house building tried all the way up to the Land and Environment Court. This is what has affected the owner of one of Falkenberg's most famous companies – guess which – who wants to build a house in connection with the farm in Svartrå where he has grown up. It is now more than two years since the municipality granted the building permit that has since been appealed by a nature conservation association operating in the neighbouring municipality of Varberg. Mr President, I would like to This is just one example of why the parties concerned, i.e. those considered to be concerned by the construction, must be restricted. The joint reservation by the Center Party, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals is a strong common marker: we want to limit the unwieldy appeals, reduce the number of appeal bodies and set a time limit. The right to appeal is, as I said, part of freedom of expression, but in honour of freedom of expression, the right to appeal must not be distorted and become a game for the galleries, intended solely to weary and sabotage people who want to realize their dream of their own home or business idea. To open a café, rent out rooms, sell, have a stable or hire canoes as a complement is in most cases required for building permits. We have now made sure that it is allowed to expand our operations with new premises and more buildings. Opportunities are introduced for private operators and construction companies to initiate and run a plan process. A new and comprehensive national regulatory simplification work will be launched to simplify and shorten the planning process. It should be easy to do the right thing. The Plan and Construction Act should offer opportunities and not be seen as an obstacle for those who want to build on a larger scale outside a urban area. Where there has previously been a requirement for a detailed plan of consultations, exhibitions and decisions in the council, building permits will henceforth be sufficient. Mr President, I would like to This was a sample of exercise requests that we may for the time being consider satisfied by our agreement with the government on 73 points and thus not meaningful to reserve for and insist on. The agreement means, among other things, that we set up investigations that make reviews of the leasing system. Everyone knows that this is an area full of conflicts and conflicting interests, and it is important that it is investigated. However, this does not prevent me from arguing and returning vigorously until the policy we pursue is implemented. The time from idea to finished residence has been shortened by the former S-MP government. Our fight continues. This is something that should be simple and self-evident for everyone, namely the right to a home.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-143	Mr President, I would like to I have two questions for Ola Johansson, both in the light of the January agreement between the Centre Party, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Liberals. Having taken note of the committee handling of this report and a number of other reports, my question is with regard to the January agreement: should we consider it the basis of housing policy during this term of office, or should we regard it as the limitation of it? So will what is included in the January agreement change while everything else is excluded from change and development? There have been very different messages from representatives of the parties to the January agreement. My second question, which I have asked earlier here in the speaker's chair but never received an answer to, is: what about the cross-block housing negotiations, which all parties promised before the elections, in the January agreement – will they be implemented? My question is once again whether it will be possible to discuss it on the basis of the January agreement, that is, on the basis of it, or whether it will have to be the restriction there too. It would therefore be interesting, not only for us, but also for the entire construction sector and ultimately for those in greatest need of housing, to know whether there will be broad, cross-block discussions on housing policy.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-146	Mr President, I would like to I think I will begin by answering the second question. After all, Mats Green rightly made an announcement by our Minister for Housing in this House. I can agree that it is worrying that the Minister for Housing is not taking part in the debate. The Minister of Housing would have been able to answer the second question put by Mats Green, that is, whether the government plans to invite to housing policy talks. As Mats Green knows, the Center Party is not part of the government. The Center Party is a party that has reached an agreement with the government on a number of points, and I will answer the first question put by Mats Green. However, the question put to me by Mats Green should be put to the Minister for Housing; whether the government intends to invite to housing policy talks is something that the government must give notice of. With regard to the first question, whether the January agreement should be seen as the limitation or the basis of housing policy, I would like to say no on both points. As I was very clear about in my speech, there are further issues that the Center Party will pursue during this term of office and which mean that we go further than the government intends to do. I mentioned, for example, the noise guidelines, on which we agree – although there is no reservation on the part of the Moderates, but only on the part of the Center Party – that we should have other ways of measuring the noise guidelines. We in the Center Party have other reservations, which are about building permits offices having a reverse burden of proof. This means that you should be the applicant much more helpful when it comes to processing a building permit. Further regulatory simplifications of the Planning and Construction Act will come back to. Within the framework of the January Agreement, there is no limit to how much housing policy the Center Party and the alliance parties will operate – together or separately – during this term of office or in the next term of office. When it comes to the foundation, I can give Mats Green part of it. There are a couple of big and complex issues that I touched on in my speech, and they are about the leasing system. The basis of our agreement is that we will investigate these.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-151	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for Ola Johansson's reply. When it comes to whether the January agreement should be the basis or a limitation, I interpret it as the basis and that it should be possible to build on it. So it should not be a limitation. Then there would not be much work done in housing policy in Sweden over the next four years, so I thank you for that clarification. Then I would just like to remind you that although the Centre Party and the Liberals are not part of the government, the government came to power at all thanks to the agreement between the Centre Party, the Liberals, the Social Democrats and the Green Party. I can also note that Ola Johansson shares the criticism that we are making against the Minister for Housing – the everywhere and totally absent Minister for Housing, who basically refuses to stand up in a single debate or at all do something housing policy aimed at more housing. It is not okay, Mr President, that we have a housing minister who is so totally uninterested in and uninvolved in housing policy. The current Minister of Housing has so far only made it more difficult for people to buy and own their homes. This lack of interest is extremely remarkable. The Minister for Housing has had so many opportunities to actually come to the Chamber and discuss this, as his ministers of State, but the only time the Minister for Housing has been in the Chamber has been when Members of Parliament have more or less forced him here on the basis of the Constitution. In the light of the housing crisis that Sweden is in, after all, it is not okay to deal with its responsibilities so casually, Mr President. It's not okay.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-156	Mr President, I would like to I don't feel like I can take on the responsibility of being a spit cup for Mats Green's anger at the Minister of Housing. It'll have to stand unresponsive. With regard to the argument as to whether the agreement is the basis or a limitation, I think my answer to Mats Green's question was that it is not a basis either. The basis is the policy pursued in the Swedish parliament. At the moment, we have a government that has made an agreement on some rather central points – and some less complex points, such as urgent issues that Mats Green raised about regulatory simplifications in the case of patios. It can also be a question of tightening up the possibility of buying and selling black rental contracts and other things. The big and important puck we have before us now is to reform the leasing system. I would also like to remind Mats Green that the former Social Democratic-led government was set up in the same way as the present one, that is, by a number of parties abstaining and releasing such a government. That government had no obligation whatsoever to implement any policy. The parties that released the government did not make such demands, but it was a completely undemanding pressure on the yellow button – which even Mats Green, who was also in the Riksdag at the time, contributed to. What we in the Center Party are doing when we release the government this time is making a number of far-reaching demands for alliance politics from the current government in exchange for pressing the yellow button, as Mats Green did last time.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-159	Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a new housing policy – we all agree on that. Sweden needs a housing policy that can meet the challenges we face in terms of housing deprivation, housing segregation and climate change. To do this, a government housing policy is needed that takes responsibility for building the housing shortage, breaking the housing segregation and reducing the climate impact of the housing sector, and a regional perspective in planning and building around the country to create a balance in housing construction. Mr President, I would like to It's getting harder and harder to get your own apartment. Housing queues for first-hand contracts are increasing; in some cases, you may have to wait between five and ten years to get a place to live. That can't be reasonable. That is why I think it is absolutely right to say this: Sweden has a national crisis with regard to housing. A national crisis requires an urgent national response. Can you imagine a society where children will have to wait or stand in line for ten years to get a place in school? Can you imagine a society where a patient who needs emergency care should have to wait five or ten years before it gets help? I don't want to live in such a society. Just like the right to school and care, the right to a home is a statutory right. That is why we must make a national effort – an urgent effort – and ensure that we have a new housing policy. Mr President, I would like to In line with the increase in class divisions, housing segregation has increased. Different groups live separately in different residential areas. The differences between these areas are often very large in terms of income, educational attainment, health and life expectancy. Housing segregation will be broken with a policy for reducing gaps and changing housing construction with a focus on equal and sustainable urban development. This requires action in both vulnerable and more prosperous areas, which requires clear public governance, regulation and planning. Mr President, I would like to A region's industrial development and infrastructure are often linked, and as labour market regions expand and communications improve, the housing market does not necessarily follow the boundaries of municipalities. In the Stockholm region, for example, it has been shown that the overall pace of construction in the county's six richest municipalities has been very low in recent years. In addition, the majority of new buildings have consisted of villas and flats; the share of rents is small. But not only in the metropolitan regions, but also in municipalities with declining population bases, it may be important to take into account an intermunicipal or regional perspective with regard to housing supply. Mr President, I would like to Despite this, Sweden today has a highly decentralised planning system based on the autonomy of municipalities. Apart from the fact that some municipalities in one region take greater responsibility than others for housing, there are problems with, for example, the fact that public transport is not expanded to the extent required in connection with the construction of new residential areas. Mr President, I would like to The Riksdag must step forward politically and ensure that every municipality assumes its housing responsibility and that the number of homes needed is built of the quality that we think is worthy of a welfare country like Sweden. Mr President, I would like to We see a massive wave of transformation through both the private and public housing stock, as well as a price and debt rally that has built up huge financial risks for households and banks. Everyone realises that the situation is unsustainable and that prices are unsustainable, that housing must be needs-driven and planned in advance and that this must be researched, and that it must be built with quality and with careful and democratic urban building as important principles – not primarily speculative or wholly cyclical or market driven. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants a housing policy in which the state, the region and the municipality together take more responsibility – a housing building that makes every kid have a home waiting for him or her when it's time for him or her to leave home or to the city where the jobs are. We want to see housing financing and a risk-taking that is more in the common and common interest that will be greater in order to build to lower rents and put pressure on the local, private market. Mr President, I would like to Against this background, the Left Party had hopes that the final report of the Housing Planning Committee A new regional planning – greater coordination and better housing provision would contain sharp and concrete proposals on how to strengthen the regional level of spatial planning. Today's regional plan in the PBL is, in the opinion of the Left Party, not sufficient. The work of the Housing Planning Committee is solid, and the knowledge base developed is the basis for policy coherence on today's problem picture. But it is not enough to have an effect on the construction of the metropolitan regions of the country, and we would have liked the Committee to have gone further. This applies mainly to the proposal on regional planning. The Left Party proposes the introduction of a regional level of spatial planning, which should have a more governing and binding impact on the municipal plc plant than proposed by the Housing Planning Committee. The regional level should be able to control the number of dwellings to be built by each municipality, either on its own or through other landowners or developers. I am aware that in the autumn of 2018, at the committee's proposal, the Riksdag decided on an announcement to the government to further develop the reform on regional planning to include more counties in addition to Stockholm County and Skåne County. We welcome this – we think that is very important – but it is only indicative. The Left Party believes that regional spatial planning should make it possible to make sharper demands that all municipalities within a region contribute to meeting the housing needs of the whole region. Without such requirements, the Government's proposal for regional spatial planning risks becoming ineffective. If the regional plan is only indicative, some municipalities will be able to continue as before and build few dwellings, in particular rental apartments. This exacerbates the housing shortage throughout the region, which has a negative impact on individual freedom, the growth of the economy and the development of society. Mr President, I would like to In order to ensure that all municipalities in a region assume their housing responsibility in a regional housing market, a binding housing target should be introduced in regional housing planning indicating how many housing needs to be built in a region. The construction should then be divided between the municipalities of the region. This gives all municipalities in a region the opportunity to take responsibility for the housing shortage and build the required housing. Half of new production nationally must, in accordance with Parliament's objective, be rental rights. To conclude, Mr President, I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Left Party, but for time to come, I am only in favour of the Left Party's reservation 18.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-177	Mr President, I would like to I took the time to read the Prime Minister's first speech – that should, if anything, show which issues are at the top of the agenda of the government we have. Given that we have a housing crisis, where one does not get a home but is forced to stay at home, to live in second place on uncertain premises or to remain in a situation that has long since become unsustainable, I am very surprised that the Prime Minister did not raise this issue at all – not with a single syllable. I see only two possible reasons for this. One is that this issue is so minor for the Prime Minister that it should not be mentioned. A parade branch from the past, where the slogan was that everyone should have their own home, is as blown away for this government. The second possible reason is that the Prime Minister believes that we in Sweden do not have a major problem with housing and that the rest of us, who claim that we have a problem, are wrong. The housing issue has become a class issue. If you have contacts and money, it solves the problem, but the ordinary Swede gets the problem right in his everyday life. My question then is: what are the governments' views on this? Do we have a real housing problem in Sweden or do we not? Maybe it's time to get on the track. I say we have a housing crisis. And I would say that soon everyone else, except the government, will think that we have a housing crisis. If, contrary to the assumption, the government were to say that we have a housing crisis, I wonder where the measures are to solve it. How can more people have the opportunity to take care of themselves in their own home and perhaps enjoy things from their own garden? These are matters which, unfortunately, the policy in general and the government in particular today devote far too little time. In international comparison, Sweden has low ambitions for social housing policy. This applies not least to self-owned housing, which seems to be gradually becoming more reserved for those who themselves, or through parents, have good access to capital. On the other hand, weak households with lower but stable incomes are becoming increasingly difficult to enter the owned housing market. It is deeply problematic, and so should the government. That is why real reforms are needed in the residential area, which so far have shone with their absence from the government. I have on several occasions mentioned Bospar and start-up loans, which the government should look directly at in order to increase the possibility for young people to buy their first home. We have too many young people who are forced to live at home, who have stable incomes but do not enter the housing market, much because we politicians are unable to solve the knots in order to increase housing construction. We build far too little in Sweden and therefore too little of our own homes. We must do what is necessary to increase the opportunity for people to create their own housing. In order to simplify the construction of housing, a series of measures are needed, all of which are essentially about the need for a reform of freedom in the housing sector. A reform of freedom should be based on the fact that the regulatory framework to be applied in the current situation places reasonable demands on the individual and does not unnecessarily complicate the construction of housing. For example, measures which do not restrict a neighbour's view, and which do not involve a serious risk of moisture or other damage to the house, should be fully exempt from building permits. Another example of a measure where exemption from building permits should be considered is the replacement of heating systems. The list can be made long. With regard to housing design requirements, the Lilliance Government carried out a series of simplifications for the individual. However, there is a need for further measures to address regulatory frameworks that unnecessarily increase the cost of construction projects and do not meet the design requirements for homes that consumers are asking for. These are, for example, rules that require walls to separate kitchens from other living areas, that washing machines and dryers must stand next to each other instead of on top of each other. Yes, the list can be made quite long on rules that we have stacked on top of each other. In private, they can certainly be of good use, but as a whole they create inertia in the system, and fewer homes are built. Then, in my opinion, it should be investigated whether the state through Boverket can procure parts of the planned stock from small house manufacturers and offer small houses at a fixed price. There should also be simpler design requirements for these small houses so that prices can be kept down. The need to build more housing is not a matter for a few municipalities, but for all municipalities. It should then be reasonable to make demands on the whole of the country and to conduct dialogues with the municipalities in order to achieve this. We know that we need to build around 70 000 homes a year. But then it is reasonable for Sweden as a whole to plan for that volume. Here the county administrative boards should have a role to play in coordinating and conducting dialogue with the municipalities. Planning is also about getting started within a reasonable time and thus not getting stuck in long appeal proceedings. A smaller circle that has the possibility to appeal and a fee for appeal should be a way to go without compromising the possibility of having their rights examined. There is no point in a construction project having to wait for years in many cases just because some have set out to stop it for one reason or another. In this context, I believe that we need to increase ownership and the right to use our land in the way we want it to, even if it sometimes means building homes in places that a few do not want. Housing is needed and housing needs to be developed in order for us to do this. In this case, the exemption from building permits is not sufficient for patios as a sole measure. Mr President, I would like to I shall conclude here and ask for the approval of reservations 39 and 46.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-197	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish housing market is not well. There is too little construction, the Swedish construction costs are far higher than our comparable neighbours and the whole process from idea to finished house often goes far too slow. This reduces people's ability to realise their dreams, it hinders entrepreneurship and growth, and it holds back development power throughout our country. Therefore, the Liberals are driving broad reforms to liberalise the construction and housing sector in Sweden. A central part of this is to review the planning and construction rules and other issues dealt with in this report. These are important issues in themselves, but I would also like to emphasise that we in the Liberals see them as part of a wider whole which also involves liberalising renting, reforming the utility value system and other things that make the housing market work better. Through the January Agreement, the Liberals have achieved a comprehensive liberal reform agenda that will be implemented this term of office. Part of this reform agenda is to implement comprehensive regulatory simplifications to simplify and shorten the planning process, thereby making construction faster and cheaper. Among other things, it introduces simpler rules for construction outside the planned area, new rules with extended possibilities for private initiative while maintaining municipal responsibility for overview planning, planning decisions and housing supply. In addition, a review of national interests is carried out and a study of simplified accounting rules that allow longer depreciation periods for general interest in weak housing markets. Some questions have already come to the point where they have landed on the Riksdag table, such as liberalised rules for the construction of patios – a classic issue where rigid rules have created unnecessary problems and costs for many small house owners in our country. This report deals with a number of substantive issues covered by the January agreement. These issues deal with the Liberals in the framework of the implementation of this Agreement. Out of respect for this, I have chosen not to reserve myself on those points. However, I will closely monitor the ongoing work and the proposals made by the government to ensure that the January Agreement is implemented in an acceptable manner. The report also contains a number of other issues. Liberals want, among other things, the type-approval of houses to shorten lead times in the planning and construction process, push towards municipal special requirements that drive up construction costs, a review of the rules on the property ownership circle, a more coherent green planning in urban environments, simplified rules for smaller buildings in protected environments, reformed rules for setting noise standards and the digitisation of the entire planning and construction process, both for economic and democratic reasons and for facilitating transparency. Of course, I support all these Liberal proposals, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 11 on crime prevention urban planning for safer environments. Crime prevention needs a long-term perspective and a local environment in which the work is carried out. One of the biggest inequalities in Sweden today is about the feeling of insecurity. The difference in perceived security between different residential areas is like night and day. To reduce the vulnerability to crime and the experience of insecurity, of course, a wide-ranging work is required, with the work of the police, social services and the school being at the centre. Work for safer living environments is also about planning and caring for the physical environment. Municipalities have a key role to play in this work. In cities and larger communities, it can be about measures such as avoiding blind spots in environments where many people move, well thought out walking paths, good lighting and clearing of shrubbery. Liberals believe that there is a need to give security issues a stronger position in urban planning. One way to do this is to amend the Planning and Construction Act so that it explicitly regulates that all spatial planning should have a crime prevention perspective. It would clarify the responsibility of municipalities to contribute to a safe physical environment. For this reason, as I said, I am in favour of reservation 11.
i-e821LhG4prDuYdnmYMQ1e	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Henrik Edin! I would like to ask you a question about the simplification of the rules that Mr Henrik mentioned in his speech. Henrik mentioned that the utility value system should change, and Henrik and the Liberals support the Government's ambition to introduce market rents. During the post-war period, Swedish housing policy was changed. The previous market-driven housing policy had led to severe overcrowding, poor living environments, usury rents and so on. Most research today shows that free renting, such as market rents, is not the solution. Why do the Liberals want to support a government that wants to introduce market rents?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-209	Mr President, I would like to I do not agree with Momodou Malcolm Jallow's reality statement, that market rents would be something that, by definition, is unfair. It could be more fair. Of course, we need to discuss how it is implemented and what the rental system looks like, and this is precisely what is currently the subject of the discussions of the January agreement. Let me take an example of a city in which market rents work excellently: Brussels. There you can find an apartment in the day for a right affordable rent; it is not a matter of usury rents. A system has been created so that everyone can find a home quickly and efficiently. We should of course have such a system in Sweden so that you do not have to stand in the queue for several decades to get a dwelling. It is a bit bleak to argue that reform in the direction of the January agreement would lead to greater injustice. If we are to be completely honest, who is being adversely affected by the current system of value-added? They are not the ones who have been in the housing market for a long time, but they are the newcomers to Sweden, students and those who are fresh on the labour market and are trying to find a job – those who cannot move to Stockholm for their dream job, for example, because they do not find a home. I think that this is the great injustice in today's tenancy system, and that is also what needs to be changed.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-214	Mr President, I would like to It is true that we are not the same picture of reality, Henrik Edin. I have worked at a university for nine years and met students who are struggling to get somewhere to live, and mine and their picture of reality do not match the reality described by Henrik. We have had market rents in Sweden, and history has shown what the consequence is. People lived in tents, and a large part of the locals lived in them. What's changed? What's different today? What is it that says that if we return to this system, things will be different? What is it that says that market rents, which are based on demand and access and where those with the thickest wallet have the opportunity to get housing, will benefit new arrivals who do not have money? What is it that says it will benefit low-income people and students? I'd love to hear that.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-216	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that today's system, as it is designed, is hitting students and new arrivals hard. The system needs to be reformed, because today it is precisely students and new arrivals who are affected by usury rents. Let me say that this is an issue that is not dealt with in today's report. Of course, I am happy to answer Momodou Jallow's questions, but as I said, this is not a subject for today's debate. We obviously need to do something about today's system, because that is not fair. However, the solution is not to continue to have an over-regulated rental market.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-219	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate is, as I said, about planning and construction, not about renting, rent regulation or housing savings accounts. We debated this a few weeks ago, and it was a good debate on a subject that engages and is super important. Today, however, it would have been interesting to hear more about planning. We often talk about how many houses we need to build and how many homes are missing but not what society we want, and that is what this debate should be about. The greatest challenge of our time is climate change, and the greatest task of our time is to do what we can to mitigate it and to take the necessary measures to deal with the causes of climate change. Climate change and its impact is indeed an issue that is topical in this debate because it is about how we plan our societies to meet this challenge. The construction sector currently accounts for almost a fifth of Sweden's total emissions, and unfortunately only domestic emissions are included. Today, we have the knowledge to build more energy efficient than we do by default, and there are measures that would reduce the amount of energy used to heat our existing buildings. Today it is possible to build passive houses and even plus houses. Those who build houses should not only calculate the energy consumption but also show how much energy the houses actually use once they stand there. However, our biggest challenge in terms of energy consumption is our existing buildings, that is, all buildings that are already built. We need climate improvement to reduce their climate impact and energy consumption. Where, by what and how we build our houses will have a major impact on our environment for many generations to come. What we are building today will also work well in a hundred years' time, so we therefore need a sustainable housing policy that reduces both environmental and climate impact. The Green Party wants to achieve a sustainable and circular construction and housing policy to ensure future generations' access to living nature and diversity in both communities and cities. Cities and communities face major challenges in terms of strategic planning to meet climate change and be able to transform into a fossil-free society. Climate adaptation measures shall be designed to contribute to the added value of the urban environment and not be seen as barriers. In order to cope with climate change, such as large amounts of precipitation and other extreme weather such as drought and heat, we need to equip our society better. The Green Party wants to work for the modern and sustainable society and exploit land on streets, squares and parking spaces more modern and resource efficient. People and greenery should be given priority over the car – not only because it is more pleasant for pedestrians, cyclists and the rest of the city, but also to provide better conditions for the land to be able to handle large amounts of precipitation. A hard - made surface can have disastrous consequences when large amounts of water come in a short time. A not too old example of this was when a rainfall in 2013 flooded the E4 in Jönköping and parts of Ryhov hospital. Several stores were shut down, and the hospital emergency room was forced to refer the patients further. The conclusion after the rainfall in Jönköping was clear: Too large hard surfaces, in this case for car parking, made it impossible for rainwater to go somewhere else than where it ended up and caused major problems. As cities grow, planning and efforts for urban green and ecosystem services need to be prioritised. Greening in cities contributes to better air quality and a more comfortable microclimate. It cools and balances water flows and contributes to people's well-being and health. Mr President, I would like to All cities, large and small, have green areas that can be developed, protected and prepared. By establishing a green structure plan in the overall community planning, municipalities can clearly plan and make demands on the basis of the climate change conditions they have. In the last parliamentary term, we introduced state aid for greener cities that went to investment in urban greenery and ecosystem services. It is an aid which was deleted from the draft budget of the M-KD and the SD and which, I believe, would need to be reintroduced. It would be good if legislation were adapted to make it easier for municipalities to make demands for compensation for green structures when unexploited land is used for settlement or for that matter for infrastructure. In order to facilitate and adapt legislation, it would be useful for all municipalities to draw up by 2025 a plan to work with ecosystem services in their planning. Mr President, I would like to I may seem like a bitch, but the climate is the greatest question of our time. Sweden has said that we will be the world's first fossil-free welfare nation, and by 2045 Sweden will have zero greenhouse gas emissions. The construction and real estate sector currently accounts for around 18% – almost a fifth – of the country's total greenhouse gas emissions, including only domestic emissions. It is primarily in the construction phase and especially in the choice of materials that we need to become more climate-smart, but we also need to review the possibility of improving our existing stock climate. We need to be able to measure, monitor and reduce the negative climate impact of the sector from a broad perspective.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-236	Mr President, I would like to Not with a single word is the Green Party's Emma Hult about how to get more housing in Sweden, not with a single word at all. I find it remarkable. In view of this, among other things, I would like to ask Emma Hult about the statement of the still absent Minister of Housing when he was appointed as Minister, if he felt that there was a crisis in the housing issue in Sweden. He said no, he didn't think it was a crisis. Possibly it was a bit difficult for individuals, but apart from this there was no crisis to talk about. Does Emma Hult share that attitude? This is my first question, Mr President. My second question is about why the government basically refuses to come up with proposals that make it easier to build and live. There is an already ready proposal to be able to expand the possibility of building attefallshus. The former housing minister, Peter Eriksson, discussed this with me in December, and he said: "We have a fixed and ready proposal, but we are a transitional government now – can we put it forward anyway?" I said, of course! Now I stand here almost six months later and ask: Where is the proposal already in place? What could possibly be the reason for not having come up with anything? Again: this is not okay, Mr President. We, but above all those who are far from the housing market, have the right to expect more.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-240	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by responding to what Mats Green said first, that I did not mention a single proposal on how to get more housing in Sweden. No, that is not what the report or the debate is about. This debate is about planning and construction, how we use the land and how we build our houses, not how many houses. We had that debate a few weeks ago in this House, and the report was called Housing Policy. This applies to motion reports, not to bill reports. We are dealing with a number of motions, and this is not a general debate on housing policy. If Mats Green does not remember what I said in that debate, he will be happy to look at it again. There I talked about the proposals that we want to implement for more housing to be built in Sweden, but that is not the subject of the debate today. This debate is about planning and construction, how we use the land and how we build our houses. Of the proposals mentioned earlier by Mats Green, only one concerned this issue. The other three were about housing policy measures, and that is not what we are debating today. I myself have said that I believe that there is a crisis in what we are seeing today. As for those who do not have a home, it is clear that it is a crisis situation for these individuals. I am not going to be Peter Eriksson or Per Bolund in this debate. Nor do I know if you are quoting him correctly, Mats Green, but it is clear that it is a serious situation when we have people who cannot take the job or the place of education they want. I'm not quite sure about a boarding house. Mats Green and the President may take it with a pinch of salt, but I believe that there is currently a judicial review of the appeal possibilities in the case-houses and that this may have caused this in the process. There has been a new case just recently, and I think it has a part to play in this. As far as I know, there is a ready-made proposal, and I hope it will come soon.
i-SByMoU4QB4d2rpC7Wa44R4	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, s tatsrådet Anders Y geman and kultur- och de mocracyminister Amanda Lind. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-245	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Andersson has, during her years as Minister of Finance, raised the tax on petrol and diesel. She has increased the vehicle tax and reduced the travel tax. The government's Deputy Prime Minister even wants to ban the sale of petrol. This is the anti-Norrland policy. And despite all the attacks on all the people living in rural areas, climate emissions have increased during the government's time in power. This means that the government's tax on everyone who is dependent on the car every day is not even good environmental policy. Can the Minister of Finance now promise not to increase petrol and diesel taxes any further, or is that what is to be expected during this term of office?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-247	Madam President, I would like As far as the petrol and diesel taxes are concerned, we are now following the decision of the moderate and Christian Democratic budget reservation voted through with the help of the Swedish Democrats. There will be a one-year break in the indexation of petrol and diesel. Then it continues as before, according to the existing legislation. That is exactly what the Moderates and Christian Democrats proposed in their budget reservation. It is extremely important that there are good opportunities to live and work throughout the country. Therefore, the government has carried out extensive reforms to improve the living conditions of people around Sweden. It is about expanding broadband, expanding learning centres and supporting municipalities to meet their important tasks. It is also a matter of ensuring that there is good commercial service. The government has worked intensively here and will continue to work on this during its term of office.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-249	Madam President, I would like I am well aware of all the government's efforts. It's usually about big cuts. For example, EUR 100 million was spent during the last parliamentary term, but what was not told was that in fact EUR 1.9 billion was deducted from support for rural businesses and especially in Norrland. So I know the stakes. My question is: do I understand the Minister of Finance correctly that this means that after the end of the year the tax will be increased so that overindexation will come back?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-251	Madam President, I would like Yes, we will follow the proposal in the budget exercise and table submitted by the Moderates to Parliament. That's what's in the napkin sketch-- sorry, budget reservation-- that's what was submitted. We will follow this. The government has made major investments in municipalities throughout Sweden. The greatest threat to them is not the Social Democratic Government, but the very extensive tax sinker plans presented by the Moderates last week. They would be devastating to Sweden's countryside.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-253	Madam President, I would like In the days, a well-known imam was arrested by the Security Service in accordance with the Special Alien Control Act. It is a law that enables the Security Service to detain persons who pose a threat of terror. In the best of worlds these people are expelled, but it has been shown that many expulsions cannot be carried out. Only a few years ago, the government was very pleased that those foreigners who could not be expelled were instead allowed to reside freely in Sweden. Now the government has an ongoing effort to tighten up the law, but the government's directive mentions a continuing time limit in enforcement custody. When people are to be released, electronic anklet is mentioned as the most interventional measure. My question goes to Magdalena Andersson. How, for example, can a anklet prevent a terrorist from hijacking a truck and driving innocent people to death?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-256	Madam President, I would like The government has done intensive work to ensure that we are all safe in Sweden. We have at various levels worked to reduce the risks of a terrorist attack in Sweden, to reduce recruitment to terrorist organisations and to have control over individuals who are in Sweden. It is important that the Security Service here has enough resources to carry out its work. The government has for a long number of rounds radically increased its resources to the Security Service. It is extremely important that the Swedish Security Service has good conditions to keep track of all individuals who are in Sweden. It is also extremely important that people who will no longer be in Sweden leave the country. The government has taken steps to this end, including by increasing the number of detention places so that people who are not supposed to be here will leave the country.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-258	Madam President, I would like The Islamic terrorist threat has grown every year that the Red-Greens have been in government. There is a lack of initiative and action to secure our country. According to the Swedish Democrats, the people who are to be expelled under the Alien Control Act have no right to stay in our country. If it is not possible at the moment to expel such persons, they shall of course be detained until expulsion can be carried out. Should it really be so difficult to understand such a logical solution in this context?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-260	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that we in Sweden can be safe in streets and squares. If people are not to be shown here, they will of course leave the country. Should it take time before it is possible to obtain a deportation, it is important that the Security Service and the police have control over these individuals. It can be ensured in different ways. It may be that you are in custody, with an electronic anklet or repeated times a week reporting to the police. It is extremely important that we have control.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-261	Madam President, I would like A bit more similar is the name of the investigation that the cost compensation investigation has submitted and whose consultation period expires on 15 May. The background is that today there is a tax span of SEK 6 and that we have the absurd situation that it is forced to the highest tax with the lowest tax force. The proposal in the study that has been presented is actually quite simple. This is because you take more height for sparseness and social vulnerability. It also fixes some data that have not been updated in ten years. My question to the Minister for Finance is now: when does the government expect to introduce the proposals of the Cost-Equipment Investigation? Will it be possible to do so by 1 January 2020?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-264	Madam President, I would like Lars Thomsson raises an extremely important issue, namely that all municipalities throughout Sweden should have good opportunities to carry out the extremely important activities that municipalities and county councils are responsible for on reasonable terms. It is about our children in preschool, that the children should learn what they need in school, a good health care and safe care for the elderly throughout the country. The cost compensation system is one way of facilitating the operation of the whole country. I share Lars Thomsson's concern about the large differences in municipal tax rates, where it is not always the municipalities with the highest municipal tax rate that have the best service. It is therefore urgent that we can now move forward quickly with the proposal that has come in from the cost equalisation inquiry. The exact date is too early for me to comment on yet.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-266	Madam President, I would like For my county of Gotland, this is absolutely crucial for health care. The same is true of the future. I very much hope that the government has high ambitions to introduce the cost compensation on 1 January 2020. This should be made possible by the end of the spring consultation period, and we have the summer to work on drawing up a budget. I hope for a more concrete answer than that.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-269	Madam President, I would like Of course, we also need to see which referrals are received before setting the final timetable. It is also a way of respecting all the consultative bodies dealing with the issue. I share Lars Thomsson's view that it is important to be able to increase the focus on sparseness. It is because we see that in many of the sparsely populated municipalities of the country, better support is needed today from the cost compensation in order for there to be good care, school and education throughout the country.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-272	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hallengren. There is an alarming human resources crisis in the health sector. There are so many among health professionals who suffer from poor working environment and poor wages. Just look at the Stockholm region. The government will now invest in the queue billion, something that the profession has not really made the thumb up for. Is it not, instead, a reduction in working hours, a good working environment and an increase in wages by means of a significant increase in state aid to the regions that would be needed?
i-Um1FWB26wGsy5NY5RdxRfv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for an urgent question! I am surprised many times that we are not discussing healthcare any more because it is the voters' absolutely most important issue. It deserves a lot of space, not least in this House. A good health care is about there being people who are happy, who remain and who have the privilege and are able to do a good job. The January agreement contains a number of important points in the area of health care. One is just about available care. I am convinced that patients, users, citizens and the profession are concerned about the availability and closeness of care. The updated cue billion that we will be presenting shortly is not at all about re-establishing the cue billion that existed with the evasive effects that were severely criticized by not least myself and the profession as a whole. We need to improve conditions and opportunities by continuing to provide a supplement of welfare billions and by having a comprehensive picture of the supply of skills. In particular, nurses must be given the opportunity to attend specialist training courses.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-278	Madam President, I would like Does not the term "care queue" become too narrow a parameter if you do not also analyse the needs according to the most obvious one? We can also see an increase in inequality that affects specifically women in the working-class professions hard. It's a class question. Does not the concept of need also need to be included when we look at queue time and availability?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-280	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity for me to clarify myself! For me, it is quite obvious in health policy – it is an absolute fundamental – and in welfare policy as a whole that care is provided as needed. Care as needed also means getting care in time and that the care should be close geographically. You should feel safe in that when you need care, it is there. I'm absolutely convinced of that. Of course, it is also a matter of chronicles, people in need of frequent visits to care, feeling that they are receiving the care they need.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-283	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister of Social Affairs. Today, in the Committee on Social Affairs, we were told that the proposal concerning the need for breathing and gavage will not be discussed in the Chamber before the summer break. The Parliament's decision regarding the KD-M budget, which meant that the amendment would have entered into force on 1 July, will thus not be fulfilled. People with extensive disabilities now have to wait even longer for the help they need to breathe and get nutrition via probe feeding. I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs why the bill is delayed. In response to my interpellation earlier this spring, the Minister of Social Affairs pointed out that the government and the cooperation parties the Center Party and the Liberals thought that the memorandum's bill was good enough. Is it the case that the government now takes seriously the criticisms from the consultation bodies, including the Swedish Social Insurance Agency? It is criticism that has stressed that there are loopholes which mean, among other things, that in the future only relaxation and relaxation of the probe will be the basis for assistance, i.e. not all the time it takes to bring the nutrition into the body.
i-9tAVcBGj5wE2LrBpBEAr2S	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland, for the question! This is a waketong. I am not happy to say this, but I think it is genuinely worrying that we have ended up in the situation we have done with the law on support and service in relation to personal assistance. I also know how incredibly much commitment there is, and I mean not only from users and user organisations, but also from all parties in this House, to try and reverse developments. I always take the views and criticisms of the consultative bodies, positive and negative, very seriously. The criticism that has come in from the consultation bodies on the proposed proposal on breathing and probe feeding is also taken very seriously. Now we prepare the question, and we return to the Riksdag with a bill, and as soon as we have information on how to handle the fact that breathing and probe feeding should be seen as a situation where it is absolutely not just a question of incubation and disconnection of the hose.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-290	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Social Affairs, for your answer. Should I interpret the Minister's reply that the delay is due to the criticism that has been received? I think it is positive. We have debated this issue in the past, and it is very important that it should be as good a law as possible. At the same time, there is a very urgent situation. Every day without legislative changes is a lost day for all these people who need help to survive. When does the minister think the amendment will be in place?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-292	Madam President, I would like Pia Steensland is as aware as I am that it takes time to change legislation, and we want to make a change that can be good in the way we had planned. The government has recently received referrals, which means that we are currently preparing them and looking closely at them. My answer should be understood so that we will look at the views of the consultative bodies and the criticism that exists. We will not leave a proposal to the House until we feel that we have a proposal that is good enough to solve the problems it is intended to solve.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-296	Madam President, I would like In Sweden, we are used to counting on electricity every hour, every minute and every second, that is, stable electricity production that is sufficient for both households and industry. Unfortunately, the security of electricity supply will not be guaranteed in the coming winters. Those affected live and work mainly in central and southern Sweden. The power reserve may need to be used more and more often, which means, among other things, that the power plant in Karlshamn needs to be started. It's anything but climate smart. In addition, we will need to import more electricity, which is often based on coal or gas. It is clear from the Liberals that we now need a security of supply target that takes into account society's needs and the impact of the chosen target in the energy agreement on our competitiveness as an industrial nation and on the climate. I'll put my question to Minister Ygeman. Is he prepared to set a security of supply target for Swedish electricity generation to ensure stable and climate-smart electricity generation?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-300	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Teimouri for the question, but there seem to be some fundamental problems with the factual base. Sweden has a large surplus of electricity. Sweden exports between 15 and 20 terawatt hours each year. 51 out of 52 weeks a year Sweden exports electricity. The week that Sweden imports electricity comes most from hydropower from Norway. These are the basic conditions. We will continue to have a stable energy supply in Sweden. The question is: am I prepared to pursue a security of supply target? We have security of supply guarantees. The companies operating on the Swedish market are obliged to supply electricity. The government has no plans to change that.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-303	Madam President, I would like Swedish power grids and a number of other actors are trying in every way to raise awareness of an imminent power shortage, especially in the cold days of the coming winters. Looking at the energy agreement, one can see that there is an end in itself to renewable production that has been done without a serious analysis of what it means for the impact balance and security of supply. Setting such targets but not working towards security of supply is quite remarkable. Does the Government not see that a security of supply target for Swedish electricity generation makes it possible to guarantee stable production?
i-L4RkwvF4f75fRAdwjCMscJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Arman Teimouri! We have delivery obligations in the Swedish energy market. It is not possible to talk away in the Parliament's pulpit. I welcome the views of Liberals on the energy agreement. You chose to stand outside it. You are welcome back into the heat of the Energy Agreement. There we can discuss what is needed to move forward. 75 per cent of Parliament is in the Energy Agreement and is involved in influencing energy policy in the future.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-307	Madam President, I would like With revelations such as Panama documents and the Paradise leak, we have been able to read in recent years how wealthy individuals and global corporations devote enormous resources to hiding tax money. A number of years ago, it was estimated that the world's countries lost EUR 130 billion each year in tax revenue forgone. This is more than the whole of Sweden's budget. While ordinary people work and pay taxes on their incomes, a small but super-rich elite engages in squeezing astronomical amounts that are actually going to go to building roads, hiring teachers and training more police officers. Yesterday, the Minister for Finance and the Prime Minister presented proposals to shift the EU's work towards tax evasion. In view of this, I wonder whether the Minister for Finance could explain the importance of the blacklist and the fight against tax evasion.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-310	Madam President, I would like From the government's side, we have tried to propose that people with very high capital income should pay higher taxes through the tax rates we have in Sweden. It was unfortunately stopped by the Swedish Democrats and the other bourgeois parties. The least one can ask, the absolute shame line, is for people to pay the tax that we in this House have jointly decided to pay. It is unacceptable for people, for example, to spend a lot of time and resources on not paying taxes. Then the bill will be handed over to everyone else. Those who end up being affected are ordinary people but also our children and the elderly who depend on the care paid by tax money. This is why the government has worked intensively to combat tax evasion and tax evasion, in Sweden but also internationally. An important part is the EU's blacklist against tax havens. That is the work we want to develop in the coming years.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-313	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister of Finance. It is good that the black list exists and that it has had some effects. It also highlights the desire to make further efforts. Does the Minister of Finance see which other countries could be included in pushing the additional regulations on the blacklist?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-316	Madam President, I would like The blacklist shows EU cooperation at its best. Here we have joined forces in the EU and set a certain number of criteria that countries should meet in order to avoid being on the list. They shall be transparent, transparent and have reasonable tax systems. Otherwise, they'll be on the blacklist. Countries don't seem to want to be there. Many have now said that they should change their systems. Then we want to move on and make sure that they also make those changes. We don't need tax havens in the world. We need taxpayers.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-318	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister Lind. It sometimes sounds like Sweden's future and competitiveness depend exclusively on tax rates, marginal effects and exchange rates. Our whole future is about our young people getting the tools to understand and change the world. There, the aesthetic subjects play a major role. We see that in more and more professions, even outside those that are referred to as creative, employees today need aesthetic skills. It is about being able to present a service or product in your job, conceptualize your company's activities or be able to understand different cultural expressions.
i-DTg7Nqa5Y7pHdMM3AawxgM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna Sibinska, for the question. Children's and young people's equal access to culture is one of my and the government's important cultural policy priorities. We know that it is important that children and young people come into contact with culture and also come into contact with their own creation and creativity from an early age. There the school is the tool where we have the greatest opportunity to give children that access, because all children in our country go to school. The government has invested in Creative School. We've been working on the culture school. I am pleased that we have been able to reintroduce the grant. The last government put forward a proposal to reintroduce aesthetic subjects in high school. I regret that a majority in the Swedish Parliament chose to vote down that proposal. This would mean greater equality and greater access to creativity and creativity among all our children and young people.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-324	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. For us in the Green Party, the issue of culture and education is a priority. We all know that aesthetic subjects are important for students' development. They can increase students' creativity and also contribute to a better understanding of, for example, source criticism. It is extremely important in times of fake news and misinformation. I hope that we can continue to work on these issues so that we can get the aesthetic subjects back in high school.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-326	Madam President, I would like I fully share Anna Sibinska's ambition. It is important that we take further steps to give more children and young people access to culture and creativity. I hope to be able to continue working on these issues widely during the term of office.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-328	Madam President, I would like The cultural cooperation model was a reform that the Alliance pushed through to create good opportunities for a rich cultural life with both breadth and depth that affirms priorities and variations in cultural life. In my county of Dalarna, the model plays a big role. Dalarna has a rich and wide range of culture and is a region that stands for diversity and tolerance. It is the regional level that must be able to decide whether and how the aid is to achieve the objectives. Madam President, I would like In the government's spring amendment proposal, I can read that Creative School receives a reduction of 10 million, grants for regional cultural activities are reduced by 6 million, special efforts in youth policy are reduced by 25 million and sport is reduced by 20 million. My question to Minister of Culture and Democracy Amanda Lind is: how is this consistent with the distribution of state cultural funds where the government makes targeted contributions to certain activities?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-331	Madam President, I would like Ann-Britt Ann-Britt clearly misses out when she describes the investments in the spring change budget. The government also made major investments in culture. There were investments in the cultural and music school and access to state museums. Several of the initiatives mentioned were planned to be limited. They thus did not have a place to fill in the spring change budget. As far as the cultural cooperation model is concerned, it is one of the most important tools we have for regional culture and for access to culture throughout the country. I am pleased that Ann-Britt Ann-Britt is raising the model of cultural cooperation, and I hope that it will also be visible in the coming budgets of the Moderates. However, I saw none of that in the Moderates' own spring change budget.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-334	Madam President, I would like Culture should be an integral part of children's and young people's everyday lives. They should be able to take part in the various artistic expressions and opportunities. I return to my county of Dalarna, which is a bit from Stockholm, but not very far away. When it comes to free admission to state museums, most of these museums are located in Stockholm, and this does not benefit children in the rural areas of Dalarna. I would therefore like to see greater regional efforts.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-336	Madam President, I would like We seem to be very much in agreement that regional culture is a good thing and that further efforts on regional culture would also be beneficial. Creative school is important. Culture and music schools are also important. In principle, all municipalities have applied for this grant, and now that we have reintroduced it it will give many children and young people good access to culture early in the ages.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-339	Madam President, I would like In the spring budget, the government announced that the public education bill should be moved from the cultural budget to the education budget. It is important to distinguish between what education is and what education is. Formation can be defined as the development of personality and the cultivation of mental abilities, while education may include education but primarily refers to a process in which an individual systematically imparts knowledge and skills. The commission is very important, and the placement of peoples' education in the cultural budget is justified. My question is: how does the Minister for Culture see such a large part of cultural policy being moved from the cultural area in the national budget, and why is this transfer being made?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-342	Madam President, I would like Undeniably, education is an important part of culture. It is about children's and young people's access to culture and meeting culture. But it is also an obvious ingredient in our school system. There is absolutely one point to the fact that education and education also have their place of residence in the Ministry of Education, precisely to make it a self-evident part of children's and young people's education.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-343	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. But it is not just children and young people who take part in the courses of folk education. Folkbildning has targeted initiatives for older people but also for us other adults. So why is this transfer made, and what is it meant to do for this group? And how does the Minister view the difference between education and education? That is something that is very important and essential. Folkhögskolan themselves also announces that it is important to keep this because it is about education.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-344	Madam President, I would like That is absolutely the case. The Ministry of Education and the Minister for Education also deals with adult education and the important issues associated with it. There, folk high schools have a self-evident role to play. In my view, I and the Minister for Education share the view that both education and education are two fundamental elements of our society. They should also continue to be, regardless of where these appropriations and issues lie.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-346	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask a question about family week – the major reform in family policy launched by the Social Democrats in the run-up to the last elections. My question is addressed to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. I am a little curious about how the Social Democrats think the reform was received by the voters. Did it have an impact? Obviously, there must have been some analysis of this because it was an important point in the January agreement. There was a three - day family week, but with three days to each parent. It is therefore a matter of six working days in total. You will understand that this is a reform that the Center Party does not cheer for, but in a negotiation you have to give and take. Sweden has seen a very generous parental insurance policy internationally – a parental insurance policy that is unfortunately being taken out far too unequally today. Is that not what we need to propose? Do more days solve the problem? My question to Magdalena Andersson is: How does a family week benefit gender equality? I would also like to hear a few words about the cost.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-350	Madam President, I would like M steam parents who have children of school age or in the later years at preschool testify to how difficult it is to puzzle during the summer, where the holidays are so much longer than the parents' vacation. Not least, this is something that is tough for single parents. Family Week is a reform in order for children to have better opportunities to spend summer holidays with their parents, for example, but also other holidays. It is also something that makes it easier for parents to reconcile family and professional life. Sweden is a world leader in combining work and family life. This is another step in the development in order for Sweden to stand first in terms of opportunities to both work and have a family. It is something that has meant a lot to Sweden and to the fact that we have such a high employment rate and that there are so many women in Sweden who work – all of this thanks to our family policy.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-353	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not get many answers to the questions about how family week benefits gender equality and how much it costs. Some estimates say that the cost of the family week will be up to $30 billion. I wonder: Is it worth this? Is it worth it for equality? We have parental insurance that is incredibly generous and can be used far up to the age of the children. But it is not being done today. What guarantees that the family week will make it a more equal outlet? The best thing for the kids is that the parents have a job to go to.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-355	Madam President, I would like There are final estimates for the cost, but a few 30 billion is certainly not the case. It's one-digit billions of dollars. Why does the Family Week promote gender equality? It is because it makes it easier to combine family and professional life. This is where Sweden has been the world leader. That is why we have the highest employment rate ever measured in an EU country. That's because women can both work and have a family. It is good for gender equality, but it is also good because we have many children in Sweden.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-357	Madam President, I would like Swedish shipping is doing well. There are, of course, several reasons for this, and one of them is the tonnage tax system. It is good that tonnage tax now exists in Sweden, but the system can be improved and developed so that more can be covered. Today, a ship sailing within Sweden must not be included in the system for more than a quarter of the time in a year. At the same time, it is a requirement for a ship to be included in the scheme for at least 10 years in order to be covered. This means that a shipping company must be sure that the traffic outside Swedish waters will be stable for a long time in order to have the courage to join. This creates uncertainty. Simplification of the regulatory framework would mean an even more positive development of Swedish shipping.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-360	Madam President, I would like Good conditions for Swedish shipping have been a priority for the government. I, who have worked with taxes for many years, know that tonnage tax is an issue that has been discussed for over a decade and for nearly two decades. I am therefore proud that I was the Finance Minister who had the opportunity to go to Parliament with a proposal on tonnage taxation with a proposal voted by Parliament. Now we have had tonnage taxation going on for a few years, and there will certainly be a situation where we need to evaluate it to see if there is reason to screw the system and make different simplifications. It is also important to know that one of the reasons why we have tonnage tax is precisely to strengthen Swedish maritime international competitiveness. That is why the tonnage tax is mainly directed at international shipping rather than to those carried out within Sweden.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-363	Madam President, I would like Like Magdalena Andersson, the tonnage tax system was initiated by the Alliance Government and then introduced by the Red-Green Government. That was good, but at the same time we should remember that we were the second last in Europe when this was done. And the Swedish slowness damaged shipping. But now we're on the right course. Now is the time to make improvements. Swedish shipping has the potential to be really competitive. But then policy needs to help with simplification and improvement.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-365	Madam President, I would like The Government shares the view that it is extremely important that we have competitive Swedish shipping. That is why we have made important changes. We will, of course, evaluate the current system once it has worked for a number of years. Let's see if further adjustments are needed. But the fact that we have a tonnage tax system in place is of course important for Swedish shipping and its competitiveness.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-367	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anders Ygeman. We are proud of the broadband expansion we have made and the fiber that has been drawn around Sweden. However, we are perhaps not quite satisfied, because this is an important step in the right direction for Sweden. Above all, it is about the fact that it looks very different in city and country. For example, in my own county, Örebro County, it looks very different in Lindesberg and Örebro. It is said that it is the market that will deliver the broadband. How does the Government see that the market does not deliver in all places? What can we do to ensure that the market does so?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-370	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Denis Begic! It is important and right that we should be proud of the broadband expansion we have. At the same time, we have a worse broadband expansion in rural areas than in the city. However, it is gratifying that the pace of expansion is now almost twice as high in rural areas as in the city. In the latest spring budget, the government has added an additional million SEK. We are now up to SEK 4.4 billion that the government invests in broadband expansion throughout the country, in order to achieve the goals that the parliament and government have set over time. But then we must also be tough on the companies that are expanding and ensure that they live up to the agreements they have entered into with their customers. In cases where the companies are unable to fulfil their part, they must give those customers the opportunity to break the contract.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-372	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. When it comes to breaking the agreement, many people have contacted me and said that there have been signs with different company names for years without anything having been built. If you want to break the agreement yourself, you will owe some amount of money to pay the company, but it is not the other way around. How do we see the possibility that they too will be obliged, when they break the agreement, to provide compensation?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-373	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Denis, for the supplementary question. In my world, of course, a company, regardless of the market in which it operates, must strive to have a good relationship with customers and also compensate them if you are unable to deliver what they expect. As I would put it, I have a good discussion with the industry and its various companies. I hope that they will shortly express this in their communication.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-376	Madam President, I would like I would like to put a question to our Finance Minister, Magdalena Andersson. Everyone should know that we now need to speed up the environmental and climate transition. Yet in the M-KD budget in December there were quite large reductions in the environment. A reduction that has not been discussed much is the reduction in the county administrative boards' work on environmental inspections. It was reduced by 65 million. This was bad, because environmental inspections are a necessary lubricant not only for systematic environmental work to work but also for urban planning processes, development in the energy sector and industrial activities not to be penalised because of lengthy processing times and lack of necessary evidence.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-380	Madam President, I would like The very extensive reductions in environmental and climate policy that the Moderates and Christian Democrats pushed through with the help of the Swedish Democrats are worrying on several levels. It is about the image of Sweden as a climate-leading country. It is our responsibility for future generations to do what we can now that we know what is happening. But, of course, it is also a matter of individual activities. I am concerned that the county administrative boards will not be able to maintain the high level of environmental inspections that they have had in the past. Among other things, it is that all the industries that are now doing well and following all the laws and regulations that exist are in danger of being outcompeted by those who do not, when you cannot have adequate supervision. It's very troubling. At the same time, this money is being used to reduce tax, and unfortunately there is nothing that can be reversed in an ongoing financial year. It is a worrying consequence of the policy of the Moderates and Christian Democrats.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-383	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I am fully aware of this. The County Administrative Boards have presented to the Committee on Environment and Agriculture that environmental inspections are poorly funded, but also that we are now facing major changes, including in the field of hydroelectric power, which require increased environmental inspections. How can we work in the future in the government and parliament to raise awareness of the needs of environmental inspections?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-386	Madam President, I would like I share the view that environmental inspections are extremely important. This is also why the government has increased the funding for environmental inspections in several rounds. It is about companies that do not do right themselves not competing out those who do right, but it is also about protecting our nature and our environment here and now. Precisely how we are going to develop the appropriations in the coming years, we will be able to come back to in budget proposals. However, it is important that this issue be raised and discussed, because it is an issue that concerns all of us.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-389	Madam President, I would like Swedish health care is struggling with major and serious problems, problems that have become significantly worse during the time of the Red-Green Government with Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. For example, the care queues have doubled, and although Löfven themselves for the 2014 elections promised that all cancer patients would receive treatment within four weeks, developments in cancer care have gone in the wrong direction. What does the government do? Are concrete measures taken to improve accessibility and develop healthcare? No, the government is withdrawing the SEK 500 million that M and KD had invested in their common budget in a new cancer strategy. Instead of growing queues and reduced ambitions for cancer care, we Moderates want to develop it with a strengthened and developed national cancer strategy.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-392	Madam President, I would like I know Johan Hultberg as a very serious Member of Parliament, but this was a rather strong low-water mark, I must say. It would be interesting if Johan Hultberg could use his next post to describe how cancer care has deteriorated and also tell us where he finds the statistics that say we are withdrawing money from the cancer strategy. The reality is as follows: During the last parliamentary term something called standardised health care processes was introduced. This means that each individual cancer strategy – now it's over the thirties – has a specific healthcare course where you decide how long it takes between each intervention. It is optimised; if nothing goes wrong and there are no flaws, it should go at that speed. This has speeded up and shortened the times in cancer care. In addition, we have an increased survival rate when it comes to childhood cancer care. In terms of resources for cancer work, 500 million remain for the regional cancer centres.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-395	Madam President, I would like It is very clear in the Government's spring change budget that the SEK 500 million allocated by M and KD to a national cancer strategy is being deducted. It's not possible for the minister to talk away. The government is setting other priorities, and I regret that. I believe that a national cancer strategy is an important tool for developing healthcare in this area. Unfortunately, we see that the care queues have run out, and I can see that the government has been unable to put forward concrete proposals to this House to develop Swedish health care. I find it rather embarrassing for the Minister.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-397	Madam President, I would like It would be wise for Johan Hultberg to distinguish between queues in cancer care in the future, where real progress has been made over the last four years with standardised health care processes, and waiting times and queues in general. Johan Hultberg is quite right that the latter have increased, and one of the most important tasks we have now is to shorten those queues and increase proximity to healthcare. When it comes to resources to work for a cancer strategy, we do not make a new cancer strategy, but the strategy that applies wants all the parties involved to remain so that we have a long-term perspective in the cancer work.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-400	Madam President, I would like In 2016, a law was passed whereby the state, via Kammarkollegiet, will compensate for drug damage. The ceiling for this amount was set at SEK 150 million in total for those affected by personal injury as a result of Pandemrix, i.e. the swine flu vaccine, which was still used without sufficient knowledge of the side effects. Lena Hallengren wrote in a debate article in DN on 15 June 2012 that the affected children and young people and their families should not have to devote the future to tough legal proceedings. In the same spirit, you promised that the state will take responsibility for the compensation when the money in the Medical Electrical Insurance is over.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-403	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs From Utterstedt, for a question on a subject that has not been discussed for a while but, of course, is extremely urgent for those who were then affected and who are still suffering from the suites that Pandemrix caused in the case of narcolepsy. The purpose of the debate article, which I myself signed together with the then Minister of Social Affairs Göran Hägglund, was to show that there was a party political consensus and a long-term view of people having the courage to vaccinate themselves, and when you have been harmed, as in this case, you should feel that the state is on your side. The pharmaceutical insurance money has not run out yet, but the promise remains that if the 150 million ends, there should still be the possibility of applying for funds from the state.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-406	Madam President, I would like Despite the response from the Minister for Social Affairs, I am concerned that the victims are not receiving the compensation to which they are entitled. In fact, most of the claims regulations have not even started yet, and there are also 30 to 40 new cases of narcolepsy every year as a result of vaccination.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-407	Madam President, I would like When the time was set at ten years, it was not a political decision but a medical decision which assumed that the cases where people are supposed to have become ill due to the vaccination would have appeared within that period of time. The truth is that very few new cases appear. But it is important that we follow this question. We have committed ourselves to this, and it is a promise that this government maintains.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-408	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. Important discussions are taking place in both the EU and the OECD on corporate taxation, not least on where companies and production should be taxed. Sweden is a small, export-dependent country with a relatively small domestic consumption market relative to our production. My question is: how is the Minister of Finance's discussion on corporate taxation conducted to safeguard Sweden's tax base interests?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-411	Madam President, I would like This is a key issue which is currently being discussed both in the EU and in the OECD. This is, of course, a government matter of protecting Swedish interests. But it is also about something much more than that. There are great points to the system we have for international corporate taxation today, namely that it makes it very beneficial for countries to have laws and rules that make it possible to get companies that create new goods and that invest and thus create profitability. If you change that system without considering it very carefully, you risk having globally lower growth and fewer innovations than otherwise. I am raising these issues in all the different international contexts in which I find myself. Last time was at the International Monetary Fund and World Bank summits in Washington.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-413	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance. With regard to these discussions, I wonder which friends outside the Nordic countries we have on this issue.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-415	Madam President, I would like We form alliances with other countries that have a similar view to Sweden on this. It is often small, open countries that also have successful companies. There are a wide range of countries. In addition to the Nordic countries, Canada is a country that is partly similar to Sweden, so is Switzerland. We build alliances and promote Swedish interests but also the interests that we should have around the world in terms of maintaining a good business environment.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-417	Madam President, I would like Physical activity through life is extremely important for body and soul, both for children and for middle-aged people and especially for older people. 70 000 people are allowed to seek treatment for falls in homes and nursing homes, and this also leads to 1 000 deaths a year. Moving around as you get older has not only a preventive effect but also a positive effect on your diet, especially among many elderly people who eat many medicines. About a year ago, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson and Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren promised a major investment in sports for the elderly. The Moderates and Christian Democrats went from words to action and put this in their budget. Then judge our astonishment when a 180-degree turnaround was made on the place – as a former military, I know what it is – and this was removed in their spring change budget. What has responsible Minister Amanda Lind to answer that?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-420	Madam President, I would like It is clear that older people feel good to move around and that it is urgent that we continue to maintain the dialogue that has begun with the Swedish Sports Federation and pensioners' organisations on how we can work together to get more older people moving. However, I would like to point out that there was an effort on older people in the spring amending budget to combat the loneliness of older people. In this context, efforts relating to movement and public health could be included, but we will have to come back to that. We will also have to come back to future budgetary work on further specific initiatives.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-421	Madam President, I would like As far as this dialogue is concerned, there is disappointment on the part of pensioners' organisations and Sports Sweden when it is not possible to make this public education effort on food and meal and access to activities and associations. The fact that you can break loneliness is one thing, but the physical activity is incredibly important. It's about 60 million kroner, and it's not small money. Will the responsible minister change his mind in the next budget?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-423	Madam President, I would like Again, I would like to say that it is extremely important that we move more in Sweden. It's about children and young people – we got a report from the Public Health Agency the other day and have a lot to do there to counteract sedentary sitting – and about older people. We have a dialogue with the Swedish Sports Federation and pensioner organisations. It is a constructive dialogue that we will continue to have.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-425	Madam President, I would like I want to ask Amanda Lind a question. Democracy is under threat in Europe. In Hungary, for example, the rule of law is being dismantled. A slave law has been introduced whereby workers may be forced to work overtime for up to 400 hours, and the employer can withhold wages for up to three years. We can also see that Trumps's former Chief Strateg Bannon is in Europe mobilizing the extreme right for the EU elections. Fake news, fake news, is also used as a political method to win elections. We could see it in the elections in the United States. We could see it in the vote in Britain on Brexit. We could actually see it even in the Swedish elections. Every third shared article on social media was fake news.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-430	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hillevi Larsson, for a very urgent and highly topical issue, not least in EU elections. In the run-up to the forthcoming European elections, it is of course important that we raise the issue of democracy and see what we can do within the framework of European cooperation. But it is also important that we stand up nationally to both promote and defend and anchor our democracy. Democracy in Sweden turns 100 in 2021. A preparatory work is currently under way, within the framework of a committee, in drawing up proposals to take further steps to strengthen democracy. I would also like to highlight the important work on media and information literacy. This applies to young people at school, but not least also to older people. You should have the opportunity to review and decipher things you take part of yourself, not least on social media where false news is unfortunately spreading increasingly.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-435	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. Given the boring money laundering story that has been rolled up in Swedbank, the government has acted extremely passively. Now, at least, Minister for Financial Markets Per Bolund has communicated that he is prepared to set up an accident commission. It should be remembered that the bank's crisis is not just a crisis and a major problem for Swedbank's owners and employees. This crisis is also a national Swedish matter, as Swedbank is systemically important. It risks creating surges throughout the financial sector and threatening financial stability in Sweden. In view of this, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance whether she shares the view that there is a need for an accident commission and, if so, what conditions must be met in order for it to become a reality.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-439	Madam President, I would like The government is closely following what is happening in Swedbank. It is, of course, important that the Bank cooperates with the authorities so that we can ensure that all cards are on the table. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, which is the responsible authority, has also started close cooperation with the Baltic counterparts. All the work that the government has done to limit the possibilities for money laundering and to tighten the penalties for those who carry out money laundering is also important. The government has taken a wide range of measures in recent years and has vigorously tightened the penalties for money laundering. If further things need to be done, the government is prepared to do so. There are also legislative proposals under way. In the coming period, we will consider whether an accident commission is the best way forward and how to proceed.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-443	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Lena Hallengren a question about the care queues. Johan Hultberg has been into it, but we look at it in a slightly different way. However, we fully agree that care queues vary greatly between different regions and county councils. Some pay private health insurance to get ahead of the queue. It doesn't feel good for a social democrat. It is therefore important to emphasise that the government has already paid attention to the problem and that the government made a great deal of effort during the last parliamentary term. I think it is important for the Swedish people to hear the Minister of Social Affairs' plan to shorten the care queues during this period and to make healthcare more accessible throughout the country.
i-2D3jaqzCBHhVDvRGdJX9zd	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Wiking, for the question! The question of an accessible care, a close care and a care where one must not wait is very urgent for all of us. When we or our relatives suffer from illness, it is important that the care is there. My plan as Minister of Social Affairs together with the parties that have concluded the January agreement is to have an updated queue billions, and to have a general plan where we can take account of the different regions. But it is also a question of having a comprehensive view of the supply of skills. It is about that there should actually be skills available to have that proximity and for a person with the right skills to meet the person seeking care. It is therefore a question of a billion dollar of wealth, and it is a question of providing skills. A concrete example is how to ensure that we train nurses with good conditions.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-450	Madam President, I would like This is a testimony: he continues. He's knocking on the door of my classroom. I look at him for two or three seconds and I realize it's real. But I don't have time to do anything until he stabs his stomach. This terrible event took place at Kronan, a school in Trollhättan. A lone killer went in and took three lives. The only reason the bestial killer could take only three lives was because the police were there in four minutes. But what would have happened if the ruthless killer had gone into a bar in Bengtsfors? The police have one hour and 35 minutes there, one way. Politics is real, and politics matters. Madam President, I would like I have two questions for the Minister for Finance. At a time when insecurity and crime are increasing, we need more police officers. How will the government strengthen the police when you simultaneously take their budget resources off? And when does the Minister of Finance estimate an increase in police salaries?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-455	Madam President, I would like The government has continuously increased its resources to the police for several years. Our goal is that there should be 10,000 more police employees. It is a very large-scale increase in police resources and the ability to operate throughout the country. I see that we will also increase resources in the coming years in order to implement this extension. It is also important that there are good conditions for the police who work. It should be attractive to work in the police, to stay as a police officer but also to train as a police officer. Therefore, the Police Authority has been given increased resources to ensure good working conditions. I am pleased that there is support in the Riksdag for the government's extensive expansion of police activities. However, it is also important that we ensure that resources are included when data is transferred to other authorities. Otherwise, these authorities will not be able to carry out their tasks.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-459	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Energy Anders Ygeman. Magdalena Andersson earlier today highlighted Sweden's role in the climate change transition. This is something that I find extremely positive and important in order to meet the challenges of the future. But in order for us to make it, our electricity grids are of the utmost importance. Anders Ygeman, Sweden's Minister for Energy, spoke to the whole of Energisverige a while ago. The Minister for Energy then compared Sweden's electricity grid to a plastic bag – a plastic bag. The government also wants to ban plastic bags. Is it reasonable to minimize the weight of the networks in the climate transition to plastic bag level? Is the plastic cassette model a development of the Swedish model? Madam President, I would like I would like to hear Anders Ygeman, Sweden's Minister for Energy, develop what he meant by that comparison.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-464	Madam President, I would like I thank Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby. One simple way would have been to listen to what I said. I stood by the many Swedish electricity consumers and found that many of them have a electricity grid charge higher than the electricity charge. I said: What if that were the case for those who went shopping for food that the cost of the food bag was higher than the food? This is something we need to talk about. Should it be the case that the electricity grid charge is higher than the electricity charge? In fact, I believe that Cecilie Tenfjord Toftby and the Moderates share my view. It is not reasonable for the largest Swedish electricity grid company to increase its profits by 360 per cent last year while not making any necessary investments in the Swedish electricity grid. I look forward to working together with the Moderates to expand the electricity grid and secure energy supply for Swedish consumers.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-467	Madam President, I would like Government Ygeman can return to the speaker's seat. A leading environmental party said this week in Svenska Dagbladet that there is a risk of electricity shortage only during the coldest days. Svenska Dagbladet writes that the alarms about the risks of a future electrical deficiency in Stockholm are toned down by the leading environmental party stone, which says: Of course, a question to Ygeman is whether he shares that view. In sharp contrast to this, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has the title In the course of just over a week, there has been a notification of the closure of cogeneration in both Stockholm and Malmö, it says. This is deeply worrying and threatens the supply of electricity in several of Sweden's metropolitan regions," says one of Sweden's leading energy experts.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-471	Madam President, I would like I thank Lars Beckman for the questions. If Lars Beckman wants to ask questions to the Green Party, I can first say that there are plenty of forums in Parliament to debate with environmentalists. But the question is interesting, because Stockholm's moderate and environmental party government has threatened to shut down cogeneration production – electricity generation – in Stockholm due to the fact that cogeneration will bear its own environmental costs. The question should actually be put to Lars Beckman : Is Lars Beckman prepared to dismantle Stockholm's energy supply and thereby threaten the capital with a shortage of electricity?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-474	Madam President, I would like Every day, every year and every 24 hours, Swedish customs officials do an important job of monitoring and preventing it from entering, among other things, drugs and weapons within Sweden's borders. Therefore, it is of the utmost importance that they get the best conditions. I visited Customs in Helsingborg about a month ago and got to be there, among other things, when customs dogs were trained to seek weapons. Then it became clear to me that the regulations today prevent customs from practicing with whole weapons. Today they are only allowed to practice small parts of the weapons. This, of course, makes it harder to make a customs dog really good. Will the Minister of Finance take the initiative to review this regulatory framework and make it possible to train customs dogs better?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-477	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an important question. Customs is an extremely important activity. The government has strengthened customs as an authority and made the largest contributions in a decade. This is important in order to safeguard our borders and not least so that weapons, drugs or alcohol do not come in illegally. Customs has been very successful in its activities here. Among other things, in cooperation with other authorities, the liquor buses that previously rolled in across our borders with alcohol that then came illegally to restaurants or to our young people have been eliminated in practice. Of course, it is also important that customs and its dogs have the opportunity to work well and to practice well. I am, of course, prepared to review any regulations that would obstruct customs in one way or another in its work.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-479	Madam President, I would like I guess I'll have to recapitulate this soon. I asked Emma Hult a question about why in her speech she did not even mention how we could get more housing in Sweden. This is remarkable given that it is the Green Party that is in the ministry. In her reply to me, Emma Hult said that this is not a debate on housing policy and that she is therefore not going to answer this. Madam President, I would like Planning and construction, however, are primarily about building housing. That's where we're in a housing crisis. Of course, the fact that we are not here to torment representatives of the government with questions about housing policy and the total absence of government in housing policy is not sustainable. That's one of them. The second was the question of whether Emma Hult shares the attitude of the constantly absent Minister of Housing in relation to the housing crisis. He was asked by the building industry magazine: Does the housing minister think that there is a crisis in housing or not? He replied: There may be a crisis for individuals, but in general: no. The Minister of Housing has not gone out with any rement of this. I asked Emma Hult if she thinks there is a crisis in housing. Then Emma Hult answered yes, and it is a reasonable entrance. It's just sad that the housing minister doesn't see this. He has also kept himself constantly absent from this Chamber and from all the debates on housing policy in Parliament and elsewhere, Madam President, unless he has been forced here by the Constitution. It's not okay. We need a housing policy worthy of the name.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-483	Madam President, I would like I note that Mats Green did not ask a new question. So I have no new question to answer. But I would like to say very nicely that I do not find it a pain to meet you here in the pulpit, Mats Green, even if you put it that way. I think it's pretty nice. I think it is good for democracy that we meet in this forum too.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-485	Madam President, I would like As Mats Green mentioned, Emma Hult was quick to point out that we are not debating housing policy today. I would like to agree with Mats Green – it is housing policy that we are debating. You cannot talk about planning and construction without talking about housing policy, building housing and housing shortages. But I'm gonna stick to the subject as Emma Hult sees it. We in the Left Party think it is a good idea to coordinate construction and planning at regional level. The cooperation of the state, the municipality and the region is important. At the same time, we find it problematic when this is only indicative, when, so to speak, it is not binding. If we now have a residential planning that is regional and in some way defines what is needed, what needs to be built, which municipalities will build what and how many homes will be built, what is it that says that the municipalities will follow that planning? We have experience of this here in Stockholm, where you have planning at regional level. There are still municipalities here that choose not to build even though housing is needed. The Left Party wants this to be binding. What does the Green Party think about that?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-488	Madam President, I would like Then let me start by saying once again that yes, one can talk about the regulations regarding both land planning and how we build our housing without talking about housing policy. This is a matter of great concern, but since we have all reported only six minutes' speaking time, I chose to deal with it and just talk about what the report is about because it is a motion report we are debating. I am delighted that Momodou Malcolm Jallow is highlighting regional planning. I think it's a key in the future. We see a great need, and not all municipalities may be able to build what is needed in that region. Maybe you should be able to help each other. I believe that a first step is to identify where the need is greatest and which housing we need to build. Once we have seen it, we have to have faith that the municipalities take the responsibility they should. I have also opened up in this House in the past when it comes to the fact that we have a housing responsibility according to law in Sweden, but that nothing happens if you do not comply with the law and assume your housing responsibility. That's something we need to keep working on.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-493	Madam President, I would like I agree with Emma Hult that this is an important step forward. But it is just as Emma mentions: If you do not comply with the law and assume your housing responsibility, nothing happens. We have experience of that. We know what the consequence is-- nothing happens. There are currently municipalities that choose not to build even though housing is needed, and nothing is happening at all. We cannot continue to have the same model, where we do not have any means of sanction, where it is not binding, where we do not make demands and say that you have to do this, otherwise there will be consequences. We in the Left Party do not think it is sustainable to have such an order. That is why the Left Party says firstly that it must be binding so that everyone knows that if you have planned this at regional level, where you know how many homes are needed, then it will be built. Secondly, we say that half, 50%, must be rental apartments. Thirdly, we say that, because it should be binding, we must have sanctions. If you don't follow the rules, there must be consequences. That is the position of the Left Party on this issue. Do Emma Hult and the Green Party agree on these positions?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-499	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Momodou Malcolm Jallow, for highlighting this problem! We've discussed it before. Then we have also mentioned a number of municipalities, for example municipalities adjacent to Malmö, which we two agree do not take full responsibility they need. I agree that we must ensure that housing security legislation is complied with. We simply have to come back to what tools are needed for it to be followed. But I have a belief that the municipalities actually want to. I do not want to believe that they do not want to ensure that new residents come to the municipality – residents who also help to strengthen the municipality. I will comment on this: 50% will be rentals. I wouldn't say it right off. It is certainly needed in some municipalities, in some parts. But most important for the Green Party is that we have a mixed settlement, a mixed society, where people with different backgrounds and different economic conditions can meet in the same area. In some areas more rental apartments are certainly needed, but in others more residential apartments, terraced houses and villas are certainly needed. To say so categ orgy that it should be 50 percent, I will not stand here and do. However, some municipalities certainly need to build more than 50 per cent rental apartments. In others, there is probably a need for other things too.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-502	Madam President, I would like Then we know that Emma Hult thinks it's a housing crisis. Soon it will be only the Minister for Housing who believes that it is not a housing crisis. Emma Hult and the Minister for Housing are in the same party and should reasonably discuss these issues, so my question to Emma Hult is: How high is the housing issue on the agenda of the government? If it is a crisis, it should be at the top, and we should see the measures corresponding to a crisis. I wonder, then, what proposals the government intends to put forward in the next six months that will somehow deal with this housing crisis. Emma Hult agrees that there is a housing crisis. Then you put away all the other things and concentrate on the housing crisis. What we have discussed today, as the Christian Democrats have proposed, is that more parts could be released from building permits. In fact, this can increase the pace of housing construction. The right of appeal could also be restricted to speed up the process. An appeal fee could be introduced to remove this with a cross-appeal. It would also speed up housing construction. The problem is that the government parties, including Emma Hult Miljöpartiet, have rejected all these proposals – without presenting their own proposal that means that we increase housing construction in Sweden. I believe, like the previous speaker, that housing planning is a major part of housing policy. The fact that the government cannot deliver answers to how it intends to solve the housing crisis is extremely serious.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-509	Madam President, I would like How high is the housing issue for the government? I note that it is mentioned both in the Government Declaration and in the January Agreement and quite often in the debate, so it is absolutely high. What I answered the question of whether there is a crisis was that for those individuals who have no place to live, who cannot accept jobs or places of education, it is of course a crisis. However, it is not a national crisis in the sense that it is a fire disaster, a war or something like that that is happening. But, yes, for the individuals affected by the situation we are in right now, it is absolutely a crisis – a crisis that we need to solve. The January agreement also mentions regulatory simplifications. That's what Larry's talking about. There will be regulatory simplifications, but they are not yet described because we want to see what else we can do before we mention them. As we usually do when we present legislation, we use the investigative tool. There are certainly things that can be freed of building permits. Some of these things are mentioned in the January agreement, but it is very possible that there are more. Here it is important to mention that we remove the building permit requirement for patios, yes, but not because patios solve the housing shortage but because building permits handlers around the country should not spend time on granting building permits for patios but focus on granting building permits for dwellings. As far as appeals are concerned, we made a change last term of office when we moved the appeal body from the county boards to the Mark and Environmental Court of Appeal in relation to detailed plans. I hope that the committee will be able to visit the Land and Environment Court to see how that work goes. Hopefully things have improved since we made the change.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-514	Madam President, I would like Then I think I have misunderstood Emma Hult's reply to the two previous questioners in the interpellation debate. I got the impression that Emma Hult shares the view that it is a housing crisis. The fact that there is a crisis for someone who does not have a home is clear. But I think it is a national crisis because so many people are affected. It is not only the person who does not get housing, but also those close to him. Emma Hult can be clearer if she thinks it is a national crisis or not. If Emma Hult and the Green Party do not think so, I understand that there are no new proposals, because then there are other measures that they think are more important. Emma Hult didn't answer my question. What measures will be taken in the next six months that will enable us to get away from the housing crisis that we have? I made some suggestions. We have had housing debates several times before in this House and have made more suggestions as to what can be done. I expect Emma Hult to present in one way or another the proposals we can expect in the next six months. Targets can also be set for the number of homes to be built in one year and in this case give the county boards the task of discussing with the municipalities. I share Emma Hult's view – I believe that the municipalities certainly want to be involved in solving the housing crisis. But I think there is a need for a national part that talks about how many homes are needed and to what extent it needs to be built in the different parts and then discusses with the different municipalities. Now it is some municipalities that take a lot of responsibility and some municipalities that build nothing. There may be different reasons for that. There may not be good economics; there may not be opportunities. In that case, we at the national level will have to support and help. I have still not heard Emma Hult talk about any measures over the next six months that will allow us to cancel this crisis, which actually exists.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-521	Madam President, I would like On the issue of setting a target, we are in complete agreement. In general, I think this is a good thing, and it is also something that the Green Party has mentioned before. We did this last term of office, and we have achieved that objective. The Alliance also set up a counter-goal. I think that's a good way to show what your ambition is. So yes, this is an issue that I will pursue in this term of office as well. This may not apply to the number of homes to be completed in one year, because it is very difficult to indicate from year to year, but during the term of office or up to a given year. I can also say that much more is actually being built at the moment than before. But we see declining figures, and both Larry Söder and the rest of the comrades in here know that we from the government think that this is at least as problematic as everyone else. However, I can also note that neither simplifications, exemptions from building permits nor appeal fees solve the housing crisis in six months. If it had been that simple, it would probably have already been solved. The biggest challenge we have is that those who have a place to live live very well and large and can usually afford to live there while those who have no place to live can stay ever closer. In the January agreement, we will now reintroduce investment aid and make it more effective. That is one of the measures we believe in. We also need to look at how we can support the individual. Now we are dealing with housing policy, which I believe this report is not about. But since Larry so badly wants answers, I can say that I think we need to look at how the individual should have the opportunity to buy their accommodation, how more people can participate in a owned housing, how we look at new tenure forms and how we make sure to support those individuals who have the most difficult financial situation. It can be both with housing allowance and in other ways. I would like to say once again that it is not just about building housing. It's about building a society. That is what this debate is about – not just about what is inside the walls or how many homes we complete, which we so often debate, but about building a sustainable society for the future. I would have liked this debate to have been a little more about it.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-528	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the civil committee's proposal to be approved in the CU12 report. Today we are going to debate proposals under the heading Planning and construction – motion proposals on issues of planning in a broad sense. Most of the proposals are directly or indirectly related to what is regulated by the Planning and Construction Act. Some of the issues involved in this thick booklet are digitalisation work on planning and building permits issues, revision of the Planning and Construction Act, climate issues in planning, regional planning, requirements for new and re-construction, common building rules, student housing, building permits-free measures and appeal rules. However, as we have discussed here, I have noted that a number of other housing policy issues, which do not concern the report, have been highlighted in the debate. I will try to stick to today's report, but I would just like to say a few words about the construction and the levels it has been at, with today's rules in the PBL. Construction of 35,000 dwellings in multi-family buildings began in 2015. In 2016, the figure was 45 000, in 2017 it was 50 000 and in 2018 it was 45 000. In addition, 10 000 to 15 000 small houses were built each year. With today's regulations and all its problems, it is possible to build much more than during the time of the alliance government. Return to the report. Many important issues that we are going to discuss here today are about how an idea becomes a house, which becomes part of our society. We note that the committee's report shows that many of the issues raised for discussion today are dealt with in the Government Office. This applies, for example, to Digital First, the Overview Plan Investigation, the Plan Process Investigation, the Construction Law Investigation, A common housing supply responsibility and others. The Committee on Modernisation of Construction Rules is working to modernise the regulatory framework, and Boverket, among other things, works supportively on many of the issues raised in the report. I just want to say that the reason we have a framework for planning and construction is that we are not just building houses; we are building communities. I mentioned it earlier in my speech, I have said it in previous debates in this House and I highlight it with both private and public actors because this is an important starting point when we discuss planning and construction. In society, there are different interests and needs that need to work together. The Planning and Construction Act is the law that sets the rules for this cooperation. I would like to emphasise the word a lot of cooperation. When we build communities, we need knowledge of the needs of, for example, housing, which in turn creates other needs for, for example, kindergartens, schools, sewers, water, electricity, public transport, parking areas, health centres, shops, service, recreation, national interests, sports and health – yes, the list can be made as long as possible. To meet all these interests and needs, an orderly process is needed. In this process, cooperation between states, regions, municipalities, developers, property owners, property owners, stakeholder organisations and others is needed in order for the planning process to be as fast and legally secure as possible. All too often when I meet construction companies, planning and building permits officers, representatives of regions and various government authorities and associations, I notice that they have buried themselves in trenches and see other actors as counterparts. In all honesty, however, I will say that I have recently met more and more players, both private and public, who see other players as co-players instead of counterparts and thereby facilitate the cooperation that I am trying so hard to highlight in the report. It is very gratifying to see this progress in fact. As we can see in the report, there are many proposals for regulatory simplifications, which I do not argue against either. However, I believe that long-term rules of play, which are not constantly changing, are also needed in order for planning and construction cooperation to take place quickly and legally. Constantly new regulatory simplifications create uncertainty and can counter its own purpose by waiting for projects when the conditions are constantly changing. Therefore, any change should be carefully considered and investigated before it is decided, and an important point should also be, from my point of view, to strengthen cooperation between the actors, or rather to throw gravel into the machinery? In order for decisions taken here in Parliament to be long-term, it is good if there is a broad consensus so that the proposals last over several terms of office. It is therefore gratifying that the January agreement has been reached and that several of the motions for resolutions are included in this agreement. On the other hand, ambiguities and threats of tearing up everything, as suggested in the electoral movement, although it has now been reduced to a third, are not a constructive entrance to talks but lead to uncertainty among different actors, both private and public. That is why a calm and serious discussion is needed. During the last parliamentary term, a large number of cross-block agreements were implemented. However, we did not reach all the way through in the area of housing policy. But we still came up with a 22-point program that no one opposed. Nevertheless, this suggests that cross-block talks can also take place during this term of office. I also note that in an interpellation debate in this room – he sometimes exists here – Minister of Housing Per Bolund expressed his support to Larry Söder for opening cross-block talks. Next week, everyone in the Civil Committee will also be invited to the Minister for Housing Per Bolund for talks. Then it is a good question to raise the very question of how we should proceed in order to bring about cross-block talks. Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to call for the civil committee's proposal to be approved in the CU12 report.
i-BVLxVhnZkXqqQ2vUaHwStG	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Leif Nysmed, for your speech. Emma Hult was just in the speaker's seat and was asked if she believes that there is a national housing crisis in Sweden. Then she clarified and said: No, it doesn't. It is only a crisis among those who are affected, as the Minister said. I think this is deeply serious. It is serious that we have a government that does not want to recognise a reality that everyone can see. How can it not be a national crisis when homelessness increases and several families with children in my own municipality, for example, lack homes, when pensioners sleep out in the cold and housing queues are longer than ever? You have to wait ten years or more to get a place to live. These are massive public utility sales and renovations. The researchers say that there is a need to renovate 140 000 apartments in the million million-dollar programme. Do the Social Democrats, unlike the Green Party, feel that there is a national housing crisis, or not?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-546	Madam President, I would like Momodou Malcolm Jallow is asking very important questions. There is a housing shortage in Sweden, answer yes, and it has been for a long time. We live with a debt that we are grazing off. I mentioned here earlier how much housing has been built during the period. We have worked with both regulatory simplifications and stimulations to get more accommodation going. This has involved investment aid, which in the last term alone created 20 000 new rental apartments with less rent than it would have been without investment aid. In addition to this, both rental apartments and flats are built. What is dipping today is the expensive apartment buildings. This alerted Sweden's construction industries already in February 2015, when they presented a report that I have quoted here a couple of times. On p. 30, everyone can read that it was estimated that if the price development of the owned dwelling continued at the same level as it would then be possible to build up up to 170 000 to 180 000 dwellings by 2020. After that, there is no demand for housing, they meant according to the conditions of the time. After this, we introduced investment aid, precisely to respond to this and actually create housing that normal wage earners can demand. This is what it depends on. We need to create housing that people can afford, right? We shouldn't go into debt indefinitely. There are still people in debt after the crisis of the 1990s, when we had quite generous lending. There must be sense and balance in this discussion as well. I visited two different housing companies on the south side of Stockholm – not in Nacka, where apparently some other members had been – and there they are still building. They still sell, and they build flats at a cost that ordinary employees can demand. It's possible.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-551	Madam President, I would like I agree with all the points made by Mr Leif: investment aid and the very high level of debt. There's nothing I'm going to disagree with. But that has nothing to do with my very question. Leif mentioned that there is a lack of housing. We all agree on that. But my question was whether Leif believes there is a national housing crisis. If today we had a reform that had removed all subsidies for wealthy people, it would have been in the newspapers that it was a national housing crisis. When it's rich that's vulnerable, you take it seriously. But when poor people are homeless, families with children have no home to go to and pensioners have nowhere to sleep in the middle of winter – I heard on the radio how they interviewed homeless pensioners – we choose not to admit that there is a housing crisis going on. The researchers say that 140 000 apartments in the million-dollar programme need to be renovated. What is it if not a national housing crisis? If we do not believe that this is a national housing crisis, we will be worried. This may mean that we may not take it so seriously that we want to put in place urgent national efforts to deal with the crisis. That is why I would like clarification. We know that there is a lack of housing. But do the Social Democrats believe that there is a national housing crisis in Sweden today?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-557	Madam President, I would like Momodou Malcolm Jallow, you're pushing hard here about just the word crisis. Yes, it is a crisis for many who do not enter the labour market and for many who live in apartments that are renovated away. But there are also good e xempels on how to renovate the million million-dollar program without kicking anyone out. I have visited two such projects, including in Botkyrkabyggen and up in Gävle. There we were two weeks ago and looked at how they had renovated their apartments without anyone having to leave their home because the rents have risen. You can do this. It is about political will in the municipalities, among those who are our municipal representatives and sit in our utilities. It is they who have that responsibility. We must also remember that. We do not solve all the problems here in the Swedish parliament. Housing responsibility lies with municipalities. I'm also thinking a little bit about the question you asked Emma before, about how we look at the municipalities that don't build. Regional planning is extremely important here. I do not believe, however, in the solution that you advocate, that municipalities should be forced to build a certain number of homes every year. The economic cycle varies a little, and the local authorities look a little different when it comes to the needs that exist. But regional planning can also provide ultimatums for municipalities. It can be said that there will be no metro or other infrastructure investments if they do not respond to this regional problem. But it is not forcing them to build 50 percent rental apartments. I believe in carrots more than whips in this context. We must also remember that we have municipal self-government. In fact, we must allow the citizens of each municipality to vote for the representatives they think represent the municipality best. Then we may think that they are voting wrong, but that is actually their choice. That's how it works in a democracy.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-563	Madam President, I would like These are strange times when I am allowed to repeat some of the questions I have previously asked and also the representative of the Left Party here, because we are not getting any answers. It is quite remarkable that, now that we are talking about planning and construction, where the 90 percent exercise is about building housing, the representatives of the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Liberals and the Center Party want to talk about housing policy. It is, of course, totally untenable, especially in the light of the crisis that we are actually dealing with. I would also like to ask Leif Nysmed: Do you share the housing minister's input that there is not a crisis in housing in Sweden? The Minister for Housing states that it can be difficult for individuals in Sweden to find a place to live, but there is no real crisis. This is, of course – and I must use this expression, Madam President – a mockery of those who are outside the housing market in Sweden. My first question is about the constant uncertainty if there are any cross-block discussions on housing policy. Reference is made to statements made by the constantly absent Minister for Housing in other contexts, but when you look at the statements, it seems very uncertain whether he really intends there to be any cross-block discussions on housing policy at all. I note that representatives of the Center Party, the Social Democrats and the Green Party come up with various messages there. Will there be any cross-block discussions on housing policy, as promised?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-567	Madam President and Mats Green! I'm actually hoping for cross-block talks. That's a question you'll have the opportunity to ask the housing minister on Wednesday, when we meet him. It was in this room that he was very positive about Larry Söder – he also asked the question. I read the protocol. Of course, I was a little curious myself, because I knew I was going to get the question. I believe in this. But then it's also about maybe having a little positive input when trying to get cross-block conversations. We can see that we already have cross-block talks with the January agreement. The Liberals and the Center Party still belong to the former alliance, don't they? There are already the first steps taken, I would say. Steps were tried already during the last parliamentary term, but in the previous eight years there was a single cross-block agreement, and it had nothing to do with housing policy. Yes, I think we are taking this issue very seriously from the Social Democracy. What about the Moderates? Are you willing, with a degree of humility, to go into the matter rather than constantly, time and again, ask the same question, with a certain glaring tone, to the Minister for Housing? I think we can raise the level of debate a little in the speaker's chair.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-570	Madam President, I would like The problem is that we have a housing minister who is totally uninterested in housing policy and who has not participated in a single housing policy debate unless, through the Constitution, we have forced him here to do so. We're meeting the Secretary of Housing next week on the Civil Affairs Committee. Yes, it is because we Moderates in the Civil Committee demanded that we meet with the Minister for Housing to discuss how we can move forward on the housing issue. Leif Nysmed is quite right that we all need to slaughter our sacred cows in housing policy. Yes, but that is precisely why we need cross-block housing policy talks. Now Leif Nysmed says he hopes that they will come. No one can live in hope, Madam President. It is said on the part of the government that it hopes that this will happen. Yes, it is the government that owns the question. We Moderates have been very clear that we are prepared to enter into cross-block housing policy talks and slaughter a variety of sacred cows as long as we can handle the Swedish housing challenge in the long term and in depth. I would like to conclude with a question to Leif Nysmed about what his party leader, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, said in Parliament last week. He was asked about the government's latest amortisation requirement. The Prime Minister states that he does not believe that the latest amortisation requirement has meant that it has become a lower proportion of young borrowers. That is, of course, an extremely remarkable statement, because it is directly wrong. Then my question to Leif Nysmed will be: Do you share the position of your party leader, Sweden's Prime Minister, that the latest amortisation requirement has not meant that there has been a lower proportion of young borrowers? Then I can say that in fact it is completely wrong.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-576	Madam President, I would like You yourself answer that question, Mats Green, that it is wrong. I don't have that information, so I can't answer the question. As far as his reply is concerned, I have not read the Minutes, so I am not going to speak on this matter. But I have a question. You can't answer it now. If you take credit for your meeting with the Minister of Housing next week, why are you so unhappy? Why do you have this tone of voice in the speaker's chair for the next meeting? If you are so willing to have the cross-block talks with the Minister for Housing and the rest of us, perhaps you would have some humility and say: These questions we would like to discuss with you. That is what you could do instead of standing in the speaker's room and talking about the absent Minister of Housing. I do not think it raises the debate in this House – unfortunately.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-578	( FIRST VICE PALMANN: I would like to remind the speakers that they should speak through the President when they speak and not to each other. )
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-582	Mr President, I would like to Over 100,000 youths aged 20 - 27 are reluctantly living at home. We don't have enough social contracts. There are people who do not get social contracts and who live under circumstances that none of us in this House would like to do. I believe that this is clear proof that we have a housing crisis in Sweden and that the government urgently needs to take action against this. We also see that those who have money and contacts manage in a housing crisis. Those who do not have it are the ones who have to take the brunt of the housing crisis that we have. Nor can we build ourselves out of this crisis, as previous speakers have said. But mobility in the housing market can actually get us out of this crisis. That is why I think it is important that we set a target for the number of homes we are going to build, that we ensure that the municipalities help in some way and that the county boards are given a role in talking to the municipalities. I also believe that it is important for the Planning and Construction Act to be reformed in such a way that it goes much faster from the idea to the fact that the dwelling is actually in place. I do not think the speech by the Social Democrats contained any new ideas on how to get out of this housing crisis. We say yes to cross-block conversations. We in the opposition think it is good that the majority – the government parties S and MP together with L and C – invite the opposition to talks. But it does not help at the other end, because we need to take action right now. I put the same question to the Social Democrats that I put to the Green Party: what measures can we expect in the next six months to ease the housing crisis that exists? I have been given the impression that the Social Democrats think it is a housing crisis.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-588	Mr President and Larry Söder. These were very interesting and good questions. I'm going to start with a comment I have about the housing shortage, Larry Söder, and it's about what you're saying about the municipalities helping out. Housing responsibility lies with municipalities. It is not just a question of helping, it is a question of municipalities taking on their responsibilities. This involves, among other things, using the funds a municipality has, such as a utility company, to develop housing that people can afford to demand. Here are some good examples that are going on today. I'll mention the investment support again – it's obviously good to repeat things in the speaker's chair, because then they get stuck in the head – but there are also other parts in this, including Sabos Kombohus and SKL's negotiations to obtain cheaper housing, which municipalities can procure. It is important that we develop housing that people can demand. There is something that is very much in demand, especially in the places in which there is a crisis, which are actually the larger cities in this country. I can take Stockholm as an example when I get out of here myself. We have a long housing queue, and the gender applies to rental apartments. People want rental apartments. Nevertheless, the current majority in Stockholm is going out with additional sales of the rental apartments that are actually cheap and that ordinary employees can demand. They shall be converted into flats. I think it is very important to have a right-of-occupancy in these areas too, but then you can actually build a right-of-occupancy building. For example, a company does so in Alby, Norsborg: They are building today, and they are selling because they build at a price that people can afford to demand. It's a good way to complement, but removing rentals makes the gender of people who are asking for a rental apartment – and the crisis that Larry is talking about – worsens.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-593	Mr President, I would like to It is true, as Leif Nysmed says, that the housing supply is on the municipalities, but I would argue that responsibility must be taken at national level. You cannot place the responsibility for housing provision at the national level at each municipality, but it must be the national level – that is, either the parliament or the government – which in some way tells us what the goal is and how much we should build. Then one must somehow discuss with the municipalities. I think it is a self-evident process that must be started. Leif Nysmed then talks about investment aid. I argue that investment support has not created a single extra home. Rental apartments have been built, yes, but the number of residential apartments that have been built has been reduced to the same extent. If you look at the figures for 2018, you will see that the number of dwellings completed is smaller than it was in 2017. There is therefore no support anywhere for the fact that investment aid has provided more housing. However, more rental apartments have been built. There's a long queue for rental apartments. Yeah, why? Because people who live in rental apartments may want another home. That is why more villas and flats need to be built, to get people in the right place to start the process. People have different needs: Some want to live in rental apartments, some want to live in residential apartments and some want to live in villas. That is the problem we are seeing today. That is why we sit with long queues for rental apartments, even though everyone may not want to live in rental apartments but in something else. I didn't get an answer from Leif Nysmed. What measures will the Social Democrats propose in the next six months to ease the housing crisis? I believe that Leif Nysmed shares my view, namely that we have a housing crisis. We have to solve it.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-597	Mr President and Larry Söder. After all, investment aid makes it possible to build homes that people can afford to ask for. There are no apartments built that people can't afford to demand. Why were the homes that Lars Beckman visited in Hammarby Sjöstad – not in Nacka – so hard to sell? Well, they're at a price level that very few can afford to demand. We cannot just go into debt to make it possible to build more expensive and expensive, but we actually need to find housing that people can demand. Then investment support is very important. The regional plan is also an important part of getting more municipalities to assume their responsibility to build housing that people can afford to demand. It is clear what the overall need is, not only in the municipality but in the region. You can also see what carrots there are for municipalities to build. Does a municipality receive infrastructure if it builds more housing? It is also a good way to work and an important part of it. We have the accounting rules for new construction of rental apartments, which stops a lot of rental apartments that people could demand. We need to look at this and get to grips with it. That is one of those points. Then as you say, Larry Söder, we need to get the migration chain up and running. More villas and brfs must be built to allow people to leave a rental apartment and someone else to take it, but then it must also be built so that people can afford to demand. A villa will not be built if no one can afford to ask for it. Then you have to look at how the price picture of the owned dwelling has looked during a certain period and how the income development has looked during the same period, and there are two separate graphs. This is what we see the effect of now. I refer once again to those of you who are literate to read the Swedish Construction Industries report of February 2015. You can read p. 30.
i-CYkaovBCxKrPFtJY43VHQs	Mr President, I would like to We are here to debate the report of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, which deals with motions on property rights from the general period of exercise. The report deals, among other things, with rent issues, land lease rights, expropriation compensation, land acquisition legislation, review of the Real Estate Act, financing and access to geodata and review of Lantmäteriet. In the report, a majority in the committee proposes an announcement to the government in response to the motion for a resolution on a simplified procedure for changing rates of participation in common facilities. On this issue, we have a reservation, reservation No 4, which I support. As a matter of fact, we do not entirely disagree with the majority; we probably just have a slightly different picture of how such a change work should be done. Of course, we think it is important that community associations that have the need to change out-of-date percentages should be able to do this in as simple and legally secure a way as possible, and we expect the government to continue working on this issue. Mr President, I would like to This report also contains a section entitled ‘Right to organise bicycle routes'. In that section there is a motion by two of my party colleagues, and it is about changing the expropriation possibilities to just build and develop national and regional bicycle trails. Among other things, the exercisers consider that the Construction Act should be reviewed with a view to granting the State or a municipality a right to use land for the construction and development of bicycle routes. The social benefits of cycling are indisputable. Lower emissions, better air quality, less congestion, better health and good economy come as a result of more people choosing to cycle instead of, for example, taking the car. People like bike commutes perform better at work, live longer and are generally happier. Happily, we can see that cycling is increasing in Swedish cities and that cycling is increasing. Both daily and exercise cycling increases physical and mental health. More worrying is the fact that cycling is decreasing in sparse parts of Sweden and that children and young people's cycling is also decreasing. The single most important thing for more people to choose the bike is that the infrastructure is of the measure. These are the arguments we recognize, though most often when we talk about other forms of infrastructure. This calls for a significant increase in the focus on the development and improvement of infrastructure, not only on the part of municipalities but also on the national and regional side. Perhaps the most important thing that should be done in the long term is to ensure a proper cycling infrastructure throughout the country and ensure ground access for this infrastructure. Despite the tangible benefits of the cycle in terms of health, economics and the environment, important legal instruments are currently lacking in order for municipalities, regions and states to guarantee a well-developed bicycle infrastructure. Outside urban areas, where land is normally not planned in detail, it is currently difficult to obtain the land needed to build reasonable infrastructure. It is not possible today to expropriate the land for the purpose of construction of free-standing bicycle routes, which can be done in the case of motorways. This makes the development of national and regional cycle routes linking different agglomerations, municipalities and regions more difficult. Another obstacle is that the Construction Act, which regulates the right of expropriation, only covers the definition of road by the Road Act – which therefore does not include bicycle routes. The question of soil access for cycling routes, among other things, has been discussed for a long time – already in the 1970s there were discussions about introducing this. Various studies have also proposed it, most recently in the final 2012 report of the bicycle investigation and in the final report from the Fossil Freedom on the Move in 2014. I think it is time we moved from investigation to action on this issue. I can also say that both the Liberals and the Christian Democrats also think that this issue is important. I therefore hope that together we will be able to find ways forward to improve cycling conditions in Sweden.
i-G1bNehQVLAqKdusitTbjf	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Civil Liberties is today debating a motion for a resolution on the general period of exercise in the area of property law. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4 of S, V, L and MP. Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Civil Liberties has to deal with a wide range of issues. Earlier in the parliamentary year, we had several debates with a focus on housing and housing policy, even in the previous debate on planning and construction. Property law is an extremely important and powerful tool for us to maintain housing construction and have a functioning community development. A key player for a functioning property law is Lantmäteriet. Many real estate matters are linked to Lantmäteriet's operations, which is why it is important that their processes are effective, qualitative and legally secure. Even during the last term of office's property law debate, Lantmäteriet's high workload was up for discussion. The increase in housing construction in recent years has not reduced this burden. I was just over two weeks ago, together with my Social Democratic comrades on the Civil Committee in Gävle, where we visited Lantmäteriet. We were then able, among other things, to follow up the assignments given by the Government to Lantmäteriet to report how they are working to attract new employees, how to focus on solving the major challenges that exist in terms of skills supply and, above all, how to work with finding new ways of working where you might be able to combine different competences and thus solve the challenges that exist within Lantmäteriet's framework and area of activity. Fortunately, we were able to learn from the information that we now have the number of employees in place needed for an efficient operation. Although the issue of the right skills is a matter of continuing further training through the activities themselves, Lantmäteriet has taken several steps in the right direction in recent years. Even more interesting is the process development that is taking place – and has taken place – in order to prioritise and manage matters on time. Unlike what I myself spontaneously believed, not all cases need to be dealt with quickly but rather at the right time. In this way, the Agency believes that the processing time for time sensitive cases will be shortened. In the report from Lantmäteriet, which has been available to all of us for a few days, we are also pleased to see that the processing time has been more efficient in terms of public service and infrastructure. However, we can also see that much work remains to be done to shorten the processing time. In particular, this case group concerns the cooperation of buildings and common facilities, and above all concerns matters in rural areas. It is positive that Lantmäteriet's ongoing change work has already had an effect. Knowing that major gains can still be found through new technologies through different types of digitalisation and automation, the further development looks bright. Mr President, I would like to I thought I would continue to focus on one issue in the report: the issue of individual roads. Individual roads are usually set up as common facilities according to the Construction Act. The decision to create a joint plant is made by Lantmäteriet. Lantmäteriet determines how the costs of road construction and operation are to be allocated among the properties concerned. They also allocate a number of percentages depending on how much operation different unit-holders have. The percentages are calculated on the basis of a particular type of property and can be changed by a new surveying exercise or by all members agreeing on how the percentages are to be distributed– then approval from Lantmäteriet is sufficient. The long processing times we have been able to see at Lantmäteriet depend in many ways on what I have talked about before, i.e. that there is a lot going on in society at the moment. That's why Lantmäteriet has fallen behind. This, of course, is not something we should accept. Lantmäteriet must come down in processing times. We must not have a system in which individual or larger groups of individuals are caught up because the state is unable to deal with individual issues. What we are discussing here, with the proposal for a declaration that has received a majority in committee, concerns whether to amend the law and the way in which the road consensuals work. It is good that there have been constructive proposals from the National Association of Individual Roads on how to look at and solve the challenges in the future. What we Social Democrats are concerned about is that, with a change like the Finnish model, we are in danger of falling into legal uncertainty for individuals. Alternatively, we need to build up a system of appeals in which parties who disagree have to hire consultants, which is a process that risks costing large amounts of money. Mr President, I would like to The matter is complicated and involves conflict of objectives. We do not want minorities or individual property owners to get caught up in the search for a more efficient system. Legal certainty must come first in a country like Sweden, but legal certainty and efficiency must also reasonably be reconciled. The question of further simplifications of the procedure by allowing joint societies themselves to change the unit rates of the properties included in the association is currently being prepared within the Government Office. We would like to stress the importance of analysing the possibility of further regulatory simplification in this area. However, as preparations are under way in the Government Office, we believe that there is no reason now to address any announcement to the government.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-627	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 12 for time-winning, but of course we support all our reservations in this report. I note that the Social Democrats are talking about something like the same topics that I will talk about, except that we Moderates think that action is more important than words. Mr President, I would like to This is a broad motion report, which deals with many different areas. One of our reservations is about food production, i.e. that agriculture can be conducted on leased land in the long term. Arrendena are often one-year, which may cause problems for the long-term viability and productivity of agriculture. In a report from December 2018, the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences proposes that it will be easier for landowners and tenants to decide for themselves what the agreement between them should look like. The Moderates believe that the Government should give priority to the preparation of the Final Report of the Settlement of Lands and leases so that the issue of leases can have more long-term solutions. Mr President, I would like to For property rights and property formations, it is crucial that the state resolves its core task: to ensure that Lantmäteriet works. There are probably no differences of opinion about this politically. We have heard in a previous debate today how, not least from the Social Democrats, it has been said that it is the municipalities that have housing plans and that it is the municipalities' responsibility. Local authorities, municipalities and municipalities have been stressed. But, Mr President, the core activities of the state must work. Therefore, it is deeply worrying about Lantmäteriet's exceptionally long processing times. As Gävlebo, I am naturally proud of the operations that work well at Lantmäteriet, and there are many employees who do a fantastic job based on the conditions they have. But much more delivery of Lantmäteriet is required. I recently produced a RUT report to find out how the business is organised in our Nordic neighbours, what processing times you have and what it costs. If you want to summarise the RUT report, you can say that there are significant differences in processing times between Sweden, Norway and Denmark. Norway has a maximum of twelve weeks in queue time, 0.23 years, in Finland it is 0.41 years and in Sweden 0.6 years. So there is a dramatic difference in processing times. With regard to the charges for comparable services, they are, unfortunately, also very much higher in Sweden than in our neighbouring countries. For many municipalities it is very frustrating that the state does not solve its core business when individuals want to build or when companies want to expand. I was myself in Ljusdal, where one was deeply frustrated that it could take only one year to get one case officer and then another year before the case was completed. After all, this slows down social development in rural areas. Mr President, I would like to The municipality has then made exemption applications and said: We must have control over this situation. But the government has consistently rejected the exemption applications. What can we do in Parliament? Either we can stand here and be satisfied, say that progress is moving in the right direction and hope that it will work out – we just heard the Social Democrats say that it was their solution – or, as the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Centers do in this report, we can demand a review of the whole Lantmäteriet. The review will, of course, show how the state will resolve its core business. If we want more to be built, if we want a living countryside and if we want social development to continue, the state must deliver, and the government's tools in this case do not work well enough. In Denmark, a large part of surveying activities is privatised in the case of preparation. In Norway it is a mixture of tasks between the state and the municipality. However, the Swedish Parliament's investigation service writes that Norway is moving towards the privatisation of the services to develop and improve the land surveying process within the country. What it should look like in Sweden should the review show, but obviously there is a great potential for improvement compared to our Nordic neighbours. There are also many actors who would be willing to engage in surveying. It can be consultants or retired surveyors who see an opportunity to run a business and work extra. As the Social Democrats said, there is an announcement in the report which deals with participation rates in joint ventures. We often look for concrete examples here in the Riksdag of how we can shorten processing times. Here we have a ready-made proposal from the National Association of Individual Roads. The proposal is so far advanced that it is being prepared at the Government Office. We have been debating this for the last two years, but nothing has happened. The majority of the committee now states that it is time to get to grips with this. That is why we are sending an announcement to the government on this issue. It has taken a long time to act. I certainly hope that we will not be standing here again in a year's time without something happening. Now it takes action. The state must keep its part of the social contract in order for us to build more throughout Sweden.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-644	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have two reservations in the report, reservations 2 and 8. We agree with both reservations, but for time-winning, we only agree to reservation 2, which is about lease. We believe that the side-arrest with a shorter tenure period should have weaker possession protection and should be limited. This should be considered in the further preparation of the Tomato and lease report. Furthermore, we are pleased to see, hopefully, an announcement on the rates of participation in road cooperation. Together with the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party, we have put forward a proposal on this issue that we believe would bring economic gain to the state, to individual communities and to society at large. There are many associations of different kinds that need simplifications in order to develop their activities, reduce costs and shorten processing times. The proposal that has now been put forward also seems to be able to go that way. Of course, we must take into account the possible consequences of the proposal, but we are very positive about it. Sweden is a country with a lot of associations. We believe that we should try to simplify for those who work with associations of different kinds as much as possible and reduce costs. Association activities have made Sweden develop well. We can continue to have a well-functioning, low-cost society if we all work together to improve things. This is a good proposal that goes in the right direction for the association activities in Sweden. Like many others, we point out that the Finnish model, which enables community associations to change their percentages, is a very good model to be based on. We believe that it would make it very much easier for Lantmäteriet. Instead of spending resources on this, you can choose to put resources in other important areas that today need faster management of your business. What Lantmäteriet manages can be handled by the associations themselves to a large extent. The National Association of Individual Roads supports this model, which is extremely important for it to work in reality. In these words, Mr President, I and the Swedish Democrats support the committee's proposal on the rates of participation in road transport and call for the approval of reservation 2.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-650	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the gallery! Swedish power grids are in the process of replacing older overhead lines from the early 50's with new safer wires with higher capacity. Being able to distribute power is becoming increasingly important when we get a more electrified vehicle fleet and large computer halls that require stable electricity supply over time and still have an industry that is energy-intensive. We have enough production capacity in the country, and Sweden exports net 19 terawatt hours of electricity to our neighbouring countries this year. Given that our renewable production is more decentralised and to a large extent located in northern Sweden, there is a need for pipelines that can transport the electricity to where it is currently consumed – pipelines that cross fields, through forest land and pass people's homes, sometimes so close that the health is affected by the radiation from these. A few weeks ago I visited forest owners in Hylte municipality in Halland who do not feel that either municipalities, county governments or authorities, and perhaps at least Swedish power networks, have an understanding of how important their forests are as income from farming, as carbon sinks, i.e. growing forests that bind carbon dioxide, and as home to the biodiversity that we all want to protect. Mr President, I would like to Forest owners make an environmental benefit by using the forest. It is shameful when they are not paid for land that is claimed, often against their will. Land should be protected because it houses some important and safe species or is used to ensure the important common infrastructure that contributes to our growth, prosperity and also national security. There's no doubt about it. However, it must not be a public interest paid for by financial sacrifices from the owner of the land. We see this in the Center Party as the most important issue of property rights at the moment. At last, the landowners are being taken seriously when it comes to the biotopes, because it was one of the demands of the Center Party to release the government's Löfven. But we also want to satisfy the interests of landowners of fair compensation when forests are used for pipelines and transport infrastructure. Reasonably, when you get paid for the environmental benefits of the forest and the alternative value if it is used, the current levels of compensation are too low. With a higher remuneration to the landowner, it becomes a stronger driver for the owner of the infrastructure to seek the most ground-efficient solutions for its conduction. That is why the Center Party is in favour of its reservation 6 in paragraph 7. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to see that we have a decision that significantly simplifies the rules for the country's more than 10 000 road convening members, who together manage 430 000 kilometres of road. This is by far the largest proportion in kilometres of the country's total road network. The decision to allow road consensuals to decide for themselves whether the percentages see the Center Party as a first step. Over the past century, much has happened in the road network, and there are thousands of examples in the country, not least from home to Kungsbacka, where former agricultural areas in barren coastal areas have become attractive places for year-round housing and recreation. There are often opposing interests along these routes, and it is a tough job for associations' boards to balance the interests of the various property owners. This may be a road originally managed by five six farmers, now inhabited by about a hundred homeowners and where ever larger agricultural machinery is to be combined with local buses, passenger cars, baby carriages, cyclists and occasional visitors to bathing areas. It is now time to go further and see how we can simplify further for both Lantmäteriet and the community associations. The role of ultimately responsible authority should not be taken away from Lantmäteriet. However, we will ensure that their workload consists of the most difficult matters that require their expert knowledge, not of mathematical calculations that can form the basis for individual decisions on the percentages of an association meeting. I therefore strongly support the report in that part. I fully understand that Lantmäteriet is busy with the rapid changes in society we have and the need to strengthen property rights at a time when more land is being used for settlements. Digitalisation is an opportunity and a challenge. The collection of geodata needed to anticipate fire disasters, which we seem to be experiencing more and more, is important, and Lantmäteriet's information is needed to enable emergency services to get to the fire sites. Mr President, I would like to We believe that in the process of change that affects Lantmäteriet, and other authorities, other methods of organisation must be considered, for example, to allow outside operators to carry out the work that is currently being done by surveyors employed by the agency with continued regulatory responsibility. The difficulty of obtaining newly trained surveyors is well known. I believe that it would facilitate recruitment if there were opportunities to pursue the profession even if you are employed in the construction industry, in consulting firms or by a major property manager. The Center Party also supports reservation 12 on a review of Lantmäteriet. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to point out that a case is currently being prepared at the Government Office concerning a review of the Land Acquisition Act. There is a study that suggests that it will be easier for legal persons to buy land from individual landowners. The Center Party is concerned about this and that a change in the Land Acquisition Act in this part may lead to difficulties for young farmers, for example, to assert themselves against companies when buying real estate. We have reserved ourselves against this, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 6 in paragraph 7.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-666	Mr President, I would like to We are therefore debating the Real Estate report. It is important to highlight the responsibilities of municipalities in this matter. Municipalities play an important role in increasing housing construction. It is among other municipalities that develop the detailed plans that specify how areas should be built. If more housing is to be built, the level of planning needs to be good, and in order to increase housing construction, municipalities should be given a more offensive and governing role. Mr President, I would like to One of the municipalities' most important tools for offensive housing construction is land policy. A prerequisite for implementing important civil engineering measures is that the municipality also owns exploitable land. In municipalities that become dependent on the good will of individual landowners to plan and then build, housing construction risks becoming uneven, unpredictable and inadequate. However, the possibility for municipalities to acquire attractive construction land has decreased since the 2010 Riksdag endorsed the bourgeois government's proposal to abolish the Pre-Purchase Act. The Pre-Purchase Act granted a municipality pre-purchase right for the sale of certain types of properties. This meant that the municipality had pre-purchase rights to a property in the event of a transfer that met the criteria laid down by law. The law was an important tool for local authorities' spatial planning and urban development and support for more exploitation agreements. Mr President, I would like to The construction law investigation has been tasked with reviewing municipalities' possibilities to ensure that existing building rights are used. The background to the assignment is the great need to quickly find housing because there is a shortage of housing. In August 2018, the study submitted its report A faster housing construction. The study's analysis shows that problems with delays and building rights usually relate to privately owned land as municipalities have sharper tools to quickly obtain housing on their own land. The study therefore considers that municipalities should pursue more strategic and long-term land policy with a view to acquiring their own land. Mr President, I would like to We know that land is not infinite, and new land will not grow. When I was in the City Council in Malmö, the municipality sold land at every meeting we had. You have probably heard of Percy Nilsson who bought land in Malmö very cheap. When he sold it after a few weeks, he made almost 300 million in profit. Mr President, I would like to The investigation proposes, among other things, that Boverket be commissioned by the Government to investigate the issue of the introduction of a municipal pre-purchase law that can facilitate residential and urban development in the municipalities. The starting point for Boverket's mission should be to investigate a new modern pre-purchase law that can also overcome the problems that existed in the previous pre-purchase act. In my opinion, the government should give such a commission to Boverket and then return to Parliament with proposals for a new pre-purchase law. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party therefore believes that a new pre-purchase law should be introduced in order to improve municipalities' ability to plan for and build more housing. Today's housing shortage drives up prices on land. As a result, developers who have obtained from the municipality access to plotted land for the purpose of building on it do not build because they expect further increases in land prices and higher returns on their investment later on. This was confirmed by Dagens Nyheter's review in 2016. According to the audit, which included around 25 000 dwellings in apartment buildings that were completed in 2015, this is an important reason why it is being built too little and too slowly. Keeping on land in this way means that buildable land is not built even though there is a great need. The Left Party cannot accept a system whereby the developer's delayed profit structure is allowed to control the housing supply while Sweden has a national housing crisis and there is a housing shortage in large parts of the country. Mr President, I would like to I agree with all the reservations of the Left Party, but for time to come, I only agree to reservation 7.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-680	Mr President, I would like to After this attack on property rights and the market economy, I thought that the Left Party could clarify what it really means. We agree on the problem: little is being built. Much more needs to be built throughout Sweden, but confiscation of private property by granting the municipalities pre-purchase rights, I would like the Left Party to develop a little more. I have two questions concerning that part of the speech, namely: Does the Left Party believe in ownership – does the Left Party think it needs to be strengthened in Sweden, not least for landowners? The second question is: Does the Left Party believe in a market economy? It's connected to that part. Then I have a question. The rest of us have talked about the essentials of this debate, namely the processing times for Lantmäteriet, for example. I note that the Left Party has not supported the much-needed review of Lantmäteriet which is necessary. It would be interesting to hear the Left Party's solution to shorten the processing times and give municipalities advice over the situation that gives social development, for example in the municipality of Ljusdal. There are other municipalities that have also applied to carry out land surveying activities under their own direction because the state does not deliver on its social contract. Today, it is year-long processing times, which dramatically damages the development of society in Gävleborg and other parts of Sweden. It would be interesting to get some answers from the Left Party to these questions.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-683	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your questions, Lars Beckman! There were many of them, but I'll try to answer. The Pre-Buy Act is important to us. It is particularly important in these days when, as has been said here before, we have a national housing crisis. People must have a place to live. In order to be able to build, land is needed, and then municipalities, which have housing responsibility, must have access to land. If the municipalities do not have access to land, we can stand here and have so many reforms and give them so much support – no housing will be built. If you turn to those who have privately owned land, they think of a market economy, which you were talking about, Lars Beckman. They say, "Why should we build?" We can speculate and wait and see how high prices can be, and then we can build or sell the land. This is not something that benefits the public. It is a right for every person to have a place to live, and that is why we Members of Parliament must have arrangements and reforms that enable municipalities to have access to land. This means that municipalities must also have an effective land policy, which I believe many municipalities do not have. I mentioned my own municipality of Malmö, where they sold land every time we had a council meeting, as if new land were to emerge. This is not a good or effective way of carrying out land policy. Therefore, we in the Left Party believe that the pre-purchase law, as we had before, should come back so that we can enable the municipalities to build housing.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-686	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party would have greater credibility in this matter if they had supported the call for a review of the Lantmäteriet, as we responsible parties in this House have done. Because there's a clear land and the market economy works, but the government doesn't deliver. It is the core business of the state that does not deliver because it is year-long waiting times. You have to sort of make the chain hang together. We agree that this is a housing crisis. We agree that more must be built. We agree that we have an invisible Minister of Housing. We agree that we have a January agreement that will not deliver. I am not sure that the housing crisis in Sweden will be resolved by the fact that we have building-free patios or that more young people will get housing from it, but what we absolutely do not agree on is the confiscation of private property. I find it unpleasant, Mr President, that we have a party in the Swedish Parliament that does not protect property rights and that stands here and says that more or less we should give municipalities the right to confiscate private property with legislation from the Swedish Parliament. I am pleased that the Left Party is alone in this House. In the honourable Member's second reply, the Left Party is happy to explain why the Left Party is so content with how it works with today's situation at Lantmäteriet. If we agree that too little is being built and that the municipalities should be advised about their activities, why do they not support a review of Lantmäteriet's activities that will enable us to reach the goal, namely that the municipalities should be able to build more housing and ensure that companies can expand and that rural areas can live? This would be good to know.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-690	Mr President, I would like to I think Lars Beckman actively chooses not to hear what I said. What I'm talking about is the Pre-Buy Act. What I'm talking about is a law that we've had in Sweden recently – it was removed in 2010. The difference between the Left Party and the Moderates is that we in the Left Party want to protect the public – all in one community. That is what matters to us. The Moderates focus on the individual's well-being, which is not very important to us. If we can somehow create a society where more people have somewhere to live and where more people's living conditions are better, I can say that even the individuals that Lars Beckman and the Moderates care about are included. But with the politics of Lars Beckman and the Moderates, poor, vulnerable and homeless people are not included. That is the difference. What we are talking about is a crisis where people need a place to live, and we are trying to find solutions so that they get it. This is nothing new but something we've had before. And Lars Beckman stands here and says that we are the only party in the entire Swedish parliament that does this. As far as Lantmäteriet is concerned, I think everyone agrees that we need to do something about the long processing times. We also agree that it is important for the state to take responsibility and deliver community contracts. This is not the issue, at least not for us.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-694	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry, this line change happened a little spontaneously! We have very different views on the characteristics of an individual landowner. In its reservation, the Left Party writes in municipalities that become dependent on the good will of individual landowners, and so it is taken into account to suspect that there are individual landowners who do not have a good will and to suggest that we reintroduce a strongly criticised pre-purchase law. I can tell you about landowners. Landowners can be a younger farmer or a farmer my age. Now I am not a farmer, but it may be a person who has a plan to let their children or grandchildren continue to run agriculture on the same basis as it may have been run for generations on the outskirts of a city. This could be a forest property, which I described in my main speech, where there is an expectation that the forest will give some form to growth and yield and also act as a carbon sink, as all growing crops do. I can see the risks of seeing municipalities buying up land for warehouses, logistics centres and other land-demanding activities on the best agricultural land in the country, supported by the left-wing buying law, and also the possibility of not even replacing the landowner for the expected income from the land's use. Is this the policy of the Left Party, with its demand to reintroduce the Pre-Purchase Act and its position that you should not receive fair compensation for the land that the municipality buys and uses for the housing that the Left Party wants to force?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-699	Mr President, I would like to Again, it is important to listen to what is said or perhaps read our reservation properly. Ola talks about taking land from private landowners without reasonable remuneration. No one's ever said that. We have talked about municipalities that become dependent on the good will of individual landowners in order to plan. In this case, I simply mean that private landowners quite often want to make as much profit as possible on their land. This is the logic of capitalism. Why should I sell my land cheaply when I know that if I wait, the market will lead to a further increase in the price level. Why would I do that? It goes against the logic of the market and capitalism. That is what is meant here. The municipalities rely on the good will of the individual landowners in order to gain access to the land or be able to plan it. We find that deeply problematic. Once again, we are not only blaming private landowners for the problem, but we are also placing it on the municipalities. They have poor soil policy, which must change.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-702	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to hear the Left Party lecture me on the logic of capitalism. We have diametrically different views, which comes out in an opinion such as that with which Momodou Jallow ended his shift in line with Lars Beckman. He said the individual isn't very important. No, it's not that in Left Party society. In the society that I advocate, the individual is important. The individual is an extremely important factor in creating a driving force so that you can make use of what you currently own and manage. Maybe it's not some big estate. They may not even be worth much, but for future generations, for children and grandchildren or potential future generations, it is extremely important. What I would like to highlight, which may not, however, be apparent from Momodou Jallow's reservation, but which is very clear from the policy of the Left Party, is the investigative proposal put forward by his party colleague Mr Nooshi Dadgostar. This means that you should be able to use land to make various joint investments in infrastructure and other things to enable housing construction without giving any compensation to the landowner. Expropriation is not a sufficient expression, but it is clean and cutting theft of land to make the kind of community effort that will enable housing construction. This is completely foreign to the Center Party, and I am absolutely convinced that the Social Democrats present will not contribute to such an investigation. Does Momodou Malcolm Jallow want to see a development where you can no longer even get paid for your land if society decides to do so?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-706	Mr President, I would like to As Ola may know by now, I love having ideological debates. Capitalism is the opposite of what I and my party stand for and the ideology I believe in. I have a strong conviction about socialism. It's about building a community. This is what Sweden is about, about a community where we build a welfare. If I'm healthy, I can work and pay taxes because someone who's sick can be at home and recover. If I have a job, I can pay taxes so that the unemployed can have a place to live and money to live on. Those who can contribute with their ability, and those who have different needs, can get what they need. That is our basic ideology. It is not about individuals, it is about us in the community. I will show solidarity to my closest fellow human being. That is the difference between the Left Party and the Liberals. Liberals think of the individual. It is just like in the United States and other capitalist countries. If you are an individual and strong and can use your elbows to get by, you don't care how your neighbor is. I don't want to live in such a society. That is why we are talking about housing being part of the common welfare in Sweden. It has to be for everyone. We cannot have individuals buying land and using it for their private profit while there is a great need to build new homes for different people – pensioners and families with children – who are homeless. I do not want to live in such a society, and that is why I am a socialist.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-710	Mr President, I would like to The Santa Claus Institute was introduced in Sweden in the early 1900s as a solution for less mediated people so that they could build houses even if they could not afford to buy the land on which the house would stand. I believe that as a principle, the leasehold can still enable people to afford their own accommodation. You don't need to borrow as much money directly, and thus your own accommodation becomes more accessible to more people. During the day, we have discussed this issue quite a lot. I would argue that we have a housing crisis which means that we have to find other ways and new ways. Santa Claus is something that I think we need to move on with. Under the alliance government, the Santa Claus and lease investigation was set up, which presented a number of proposals for modernising the leasehold in the sub-report Santa Claus. Among other things, the investigation suggested that the debtor be adjusted each year. In the case of small house leaseholds, a three-year valuation interval was proposed. The investigation also suggested that a general interest rate should be specified in law. The interest rate shall be determined on the basis of the long-term real interest rate and shall amount to 2.75 per cent. Flats for residential purposes can become more attractive and more secure as a tenure form if the pay-off periods and the level of the pay-off rate are adjusted in accordance with the investigation's proposal. Many of the reports in the media deal with this particular problem. The increases are high when you do the list too rarely, and the municipalities charge different fees. Therefore, some kind of standard is needed. The lease and lease investigation submitted its interim report in October 2012. In January 2018, then Minister Helene Fritzon answered a written question as to whether the Government intended to take any initiatives to modernise the conditions governing property rights. The Government said that the Government carried out active preparation work and that in 2017 the Government Office had held a meeting with certain authorities and organisations specifically concerned about the continued focus on the work. The Government explained that the views expressed at the meeting were analysed within the Government Office. After all, the fact that those comments were analysed is reassuring. It is true that the Government did not set a timetable for the completion of the analysis, but I hope it will be soon. It would be nice for anyone who wants their own accommodation. It is remarkable that the government has not yet put forward any concrete proposals on how it intends to move forward on this important issue. Can the government parties perhaps account for this in this House today? That would be desirable. For a number of operations and for the entire urban development process, Lantmäteriet's efforts are of crucial importance. Housing construction requires the creation of new properties, and the construction of new railways requires land leases with the support of the Property Forming Act, the Rights of way Act and the Construction Act. When commons are formed for roads or when broadband installations are installed, the Authority is connected to solve land lease issues. For those who want to change their property by conversion or extension, register ownership on purchase or sale or change property limits, the efforts of Lantmäteriet are needed. For many years Lantmäteriet has had major problems with long processing times. Despite access to new technology, waiting times and processing times are a major problem for many who want to develop their businesses and their properties. The long processing times also have a negative impact on the development of business in many locations. The Land Survey's fees are determined by the government, but they do not correspond at all to the work and service effort. In our opinion, many actors, such as consultants, construction companies or property owners, could carry out the measurement part themselves in an execution, which today's regulatory system prevents. In most other countries there are solutions where certified companies or people are allowed to perform different tasks, and we would like to look at this further. In order to overcome the problems, we believe that a general review of Lantmäteriet's activities is needed. It is of the utmost importance to reduce the length of proceedings. What could soon be done is to leave it to the road consensuals themselves to decide on changes in percentages. These percentages are important for, among other things, the annual fee for the joint venture. It is today associated with long processing times and expensive fees to make registration. We believe that it is more convenient for the parties to be able to decide on the percentages themselves, and therefore the registers of the road communities are always correct. Should there be a dispute in road transport, it is reasonable for Lantmäteriet to be connected, but in 95% of cases it is a matter of routine matters that should be handled at local level. Then Lantmäteriet's resources can be used for other parts that are important for increasing housing construction. We believe that there is great support for such a change among road communities. Examples are from other countries where it works much better. You should be able to solve this quickly, if the government wants to. However, I am surprised that the Liberals have come across the other side of the issue. When I say the other side, it is a question of the fact that it should be natural for the Liberals to end up on the side where the road confederations are given greater freedom in one way or another. What is it if not liberalism? The Joakim Järrebring of the Social Democrats is concerned about the rule of law. I am concerned that we have a system that does not work at all because the registers are incorrect, and the system is administratively unwieldy. I think it is a bigger problem and I think we can resolve this quickly and in a good spirit. I hope that Parliament will decide on an announcement so that the problem can be resolved quickly. And I hope that the current government can take the problem to its heart and solve it quickly. We cannot put these resources at Lantmäteriet, but it is better if they are put on the local plane. With these words, I am in favour of reservations 3 and 12.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-724	Mr President, I would like to The surveying process has for several years been suffering from problems that have continuously worsened. The execution time for services is far too long. Inadequate local knowledge means that services are not always done with the quality that can be expected. In addition, there is great dissatisfaction with high maintenance costs. During the period 2012 – 2016, the median processing times in Lantmäteriet have doubled. In real estate regulation cases, the median time is approaching one year. Long processing times at Lantmäteriet not only make housing construction difficult, but also create concerns in many other contexts. For example, delays can lead to financial losses for those farmers and foresters who need to cut-off existing buildings. Road maintenance and the setting of percentages for road associations are also made more difficult. These are no unknown problems. The issue has been debated several times in this House, not least during the last parliamentary term. A number of measures have been launched to address the structural shortcomings that are at the root of the problem. This has been mentioned by previous speakers. Liberals are open to making radical reforms to improve the proceedings. We believe that it is important that community associations that have the need to change out-of-date rates of participation can do so in as simple and legally secure a way as possible. The Liberals have three reservations in the report. I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 5, which relates to a completely different issue. It's about bike paths. The fact that walking and cycling routes cannot be organised within the framework of the Road Act if they are not connected with public roads often makes it more difficult to organise walking and cycling routes than ordinary roads, which is of course very strange. That is an obvious problem. If we are serious about taking a strong stance on the climate issue, we must do something about this issue.
i-Vk5y8ahMxPYTvwF352LBfK	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Henrik Edin, for your speech. The problem is that we Moderates can support it. Liberals are, of course, quite right that the system of participation in road transport is not working well enough today. There is a concrete proposal that would work better, as the National Association of Individual Roads thinks would be good. Just as Larry Söder said in his speech, you're surprised. Why is it that the Liberals are changing sides and taking sides with the Socialists? That would be interesting to hear. What is even more remarkable, of course, is the review of Lantmäteriet. Just as Henrik Edin said in his speech, it is long processing times. The state cannot deliver its core business. The state is failing. The state is hindering social development. The state is making construction difficult in the municipalities. Local politicians are sometimes desperate because it may take years to do things easier. The logical thing is, of course, to do a review of Lantmäteriet. You can look at how it looks and is organized in Denmark, Norway and Finland – nearby countries to us. It would be interesting to know what Liberals' solution is to shorten processing times at Lantmäteriet and why Liberals think it is so important not to review the business.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-734	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I do not know whether it is so obvious that the Liberals do not want to review Lantmäteriet's activities. That's what we want to do. This is clearly something that needs to be done in order to shorten the processing times. What then needs to be done to shorten the processing times is a little different. I believe that Lars Beckman exaggerates the differences in committee, although we have different opinions. I believe that when we review Lantmäteriet's activities, we need to have as broad a perspective as possible. What is recommended by, among other things, the Moderates is that we only proceed with the so-called Finnish model. I am not saying that this would not be a viable option, but I believe that we need a much broader approach to tackling the problem.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-737	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether the honourable Member is confusing matters. One relates to participation rates in road transport associations. There may be 10,000 partners – members – in the association who want a solution that they think is good. For me as moderate, it is logical to listen to what you want in the industry; what solution they want. The second case concerns reservation 12, which the Liberals do not support. This is a general review of Lantmäteriet. I gave some examples in my speech, such as the fact that there are considerably shorter processing times in Finland. I gave examples from Norway with considerably shorter processing times. I gave examples from Denmark, where the business is largely privatised. A general feature of all three countries is that in many cases they have shorter processing times and lower costs. Then I wonder what the liberal is to disagree with a review of Lantmäteriet, Mr President. I believe that action always beats words. It's when you do something that makes a difference. It is when you support in this case three bourgeois parties, M, C and KD, that you can push something through. We had hoped that all parties in the Swedish parliament had supported it. It was unlikely that this would happen after the Left Party's intervention with the attack on property rights. They want a completely different model of society. But listen to the name of the Liberals! I cannot imagine that the Liberals would be against, for example, increasing the privatisation of the activities that we see developing in other countries.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-740	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we have a major problem that we need to deal with. We need to take the broadest possible approach to this issue. It's like Lars Beckman says. There's a reservation here that the Liberals sign. But it has a huge focus on the fact that the associations can change the percentages by majority decision. That is really what we feel we need to have a wider entrance to. I believe that there are conflicts of interests on this issue. I'm sure Lars Beckman realizes that too. These conflicts mean that it could happen that a single person might end up in conflict with his neighbours, i.e. a majority. That is something we need to take quite seriously. That is why we really need to broaden the scope of the review of activities to include solutions other than the so-called Finnish model.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-743	Mr President, I would like to Today, I would like to read out what we have actually written in the report: ..................................................... I think it's rather loosely formulated. I cannot quite understand what in the sense that the Liberals are having problems with. Liberals take the same view, that is to say that it is a problem. I share the view that we should change the system. What is it in this wording that makes the Liberals oppose this? I can't for my life understand how to get on the other side. I say the other side, because I think the Liberals are an alliance party. Liberals should stand up because when we can make decisions at the lowest effective level, we should do so. In this case, it is quite clear that it is at the level of road cooperation. As far as the review of Lantmäteriet is concerned, I cannot quite understand how you land where you do. There we open up so that you can get other actors who do some of the tasks that Lantmäteriet does so that Lantmäteriet will do more of what it is actually good at and that only it can do. It should be a liberal idea that other actors are also allowed into state activities. This means that we are opening up those elements to competition in order to make it as effective as possible and to make the best use of tax resources. I think I agree with Lars Beckman in his interpretation. I would like the Liberals to explain a little more why they end up on the other side.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-749	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder makes the same criticism as Lars Beckman earlier and claims that it is a loose formulation on the issue of percentages. It may say something about precisely the position of the Liberals on this issue. Of course, the issue is already on the table of the government. We heard this from Lars Beckman not least in the opening speech here earlier. I certainly do not want to defend the government on this issue in any way. But does Larry Söder mean that the Riksdag supports a question that the government is already dealing with and pushing it to the government? Maybe it's a loose formulation. But isn't that also a pretty loose move? Is it not better to have a much clearer and effective wording that takes a broader approach to the issue? At least I think so. We agree on the reality statement. That is a very big problem. Lantmäteriet's operations need to be reviewed, and we need short processing times. There's nothing strange about that at all.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-753	Mr President, I would like to How do the Liberals want to do that? That is the big question. The Social Democrats and the Green Party reject this motion, and the Liberals reject this motion. This means that they have no mandate from the Riksdag to do anything at all. How do the Liberals want to deal with the long processing times? How do the Liberals want to move decision-making power closer to the people? Actually, that's what we want to do. Unless it is liberal policy, I do not know what liberal policy is anymore. When it comes to being afraid that it is legally insecure, it is clear that one must have a system where one can try it out in one way or another. But in 95% of cases, everyone agrees on what percentage it should be. These cases will work perfectly well with this system. The percentage will be right. You will pay the fee you have to pay, and Lantmäteriet will not be charged. But in this case the Liberals think it is better that it goes to Lantmäteriet and it should sit and decide whether it is right or wrong. Forgive me, but I think the Liberals are on the wrong side of these two parts. Otherwise, we have the same reality description of the problem. If the Liberals want a sharper wording that will allow them to agree to this next year, yes, preferably. It's nice for me. But this is such a loose text that the Liberals, too, could agree to it.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-758	Mr President, I would like to It is perhaps a kind wording in the report. But there is a conflict of objectives in the so-called Finnish model. We really need to take this into account. I think it is important to see that individuals can get caught if it is not properly implemented. Although Finland may have a well-functioning system today, it is not certain that it works to apply to Swedish conditions. That is about what I have to end the debate with. What we in the Liberals want to do to shorten the processes is to work with regulatory simplifications and also make a complete review of the business.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-761	Mr President, I would like to Now we have to debate a very important area of public health policy – namely ANDT, i.e. alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco. The Alliance government initiated a first comprehensive strategy for the area, which was decided upon and entered into force in 2011. Now we are in the second strategy period running between 2016 and 2020. As the government is now working out a new strategy for a third period, I think it is important that the government does not make it too easy for itself. It is not good enough just to give the strategy a slight boost, but I and the Moderates think that there is reason to undertake a rather fundamental review of the strategy, its objectives and efforts. We want to see an increased focus on damage reduction and a strategy based on a better scientific basis in terms of the different adverse effects of different products and preparations. In this context, I would like to highlight reservation 1, which relates to taking account of differences in harmful effects in the future work. This is also fully in line with what we in the Moderates highlighted when the Red Green Government presented the bill New Law on Tobacco and Similar Products. We criticised the government at that time for not having taken into account the various harmful effects of different products and for the fact that the proposal contained a number of proposals which were not very well scientifically substantiated and were also not proportionate. Unfortunately, however, the government largely passed its bill, but on a couple of points the parliament voted against. In addition, Parliament called on the government to come back with a proposal by 19 March of this year on how tobacco advertising on the Internet could look like in order to ensure continued reasonable conditions for the online trade in tobacco, and in particular snus. Now, however, I have to say that the government has not done what Parliament has demanded. It's serious. Unfortunately, the same applies to the issue of farm sales. The Parliament said exactly a year ago, on 2 May last year, in an announcement that the government should work for legislation that makes it possible to sell alcohol on farms. Mr President, I would like to Broadly across party and block borders, we can agree on the crucial importance of strong prevention and health promotion for the achievement of our public health policy objectives. This applies, in particular, to alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco. Preventive work must be carried out widely, but a particularly important group to target is parents. In the joint budget of Moderates and Christian Democrats, which won the approval of Parliament in this House last autumn, there was a special investment of SEK 75 million annually on parental support programmes. This initiative is now abolished in the spring change budget presented by the government. My question then is: Does the S, C, L, and MP not think it is urgent to support parents in their important task? Anyone can develop an addiction and have problems with, for example, alcohol or drugs. However, good parenting can reduce the risk as well as contribute to the attention and timely support of children or young people who start testing and experimenting with drugs. Mr President, I would like to Let me now talk about the area of drugs in particular. It is an area in which I believe that we as politicians, regardless of party colours, really have reason to be self-critical. Although Sweden as a country has been successful in keeping down the number of people who have ever even tried drugs, we have a frighteningly high drug-related mortality rate. According to the European Union Drugs Agency, in the EU only Estonia has higher drug-related mortality rates than Sweden. Mortality in Sweden is four times higher than the EU average. From this I conclude, Mr President, that we in Sweden really need to step up work on harm reduction and on developing addiction care. The figures I just mentioned are disappointing. But I am pleased that there seems to be a great will in the Social Affairs Committee to develop addiction care, which was manifested only last week in this House. Then, on a proposal from a united committee, the House could decide to call on the government to review the question of how the responsibility for care for co-morbidity in the form of mental illness combined with an addiction disease can come together with a principal. We also agreed to urge the government to review how there should be access to pharmacological treatment throughout the country for people with addiction. These were important steps forward, and now it really is a matter of the government taking the baton that we have sent from this House and driving the work forward. Mr President, I would like to As I have just said, we want the government to review how access to pharmacological treatment can be ensured throughout the country – in the whole country. One problem in today's Swedish drug policy and addiction care is the large regional differences. As I said, it is about the availability of pharmacological treatment, such as substitution therapy for opioid dependence. However, these include syringe exchange programmes, as well as access to the opioid antagonist Naloxone, which can effectively save lives when it reverses the effect of opioids in overdoses. Mr President, I would like to Of course, I support both the moderate reservations in the report. However, for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation No 8, which is about extending the syringe exchange programmes and increasing access to the life-saving drug Naloxon. The National Board of Health and Welfare has recently carried out a review of the national guidelines on care and support for addiction and addiction. It was a welcome review. Good dependency care must be evidence-based, and for this the national guidelines are an important support. Unfortunately, there are today significant problems with implementation and compliance with the guidelines. Here I really think that there is reason for the government to consider further measures to address this problem. Anyone suffering from an addiction disease needs, and is entitled to, care and support that is evidence-based. It should be care based on knowledge and proven experience – not from opinion. With this, Mr President, I thank you for the floor and hope that during this parliamentary term we in the Committee on Social Affairs will continue to work constructively together to reduce the use and harm caused by drugs, alcohol, tobacco and doping.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-777	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco – a large and important area that affects us all in one way or another. I was going to focus on drugs, but for that reason none of the other areas is less important. The Swedish Democrats are behind all their reservations, but for time winning, I only call for reservation 3. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish people want a restrictive drug policy; it shows regular polls. Action against drugs is high on the citizens' list. High death rates, open drug management in streets and squares, and an increasingly permissive view of cannabis cause people to feel anxious. The school is one of the most important arenas for prevention, early detection and early intervention. Pupils have the right to a safe, safe and drug-free environment, and the school has a duty to ensure it. It should be obvious that the school environment should be free from alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco. The school needs to work both on prevention measures to limit the use and spread of drugs and on early detection, intervention and support of students using drugs. The most important tool in this work is school policy, action plans and routines. The basis of a policy is clear rules and consequences and support and assistance when drug use is discovered. Cooperation with social services, relatives and police is also of great importance. One question that is often asked is whether and how the school can use drug dogs as a complement to prevention. The aim of the search of narcotics dogs in the school environment is to increase the risk of detection, thereby choosing not to store drugs in the school. Random drug tests are also becoming more common in upper secondary school. Experience so far shows that students are positive about drug testing and the prevention of the school. Mr President, I would like to The sale of drugs via the Internet is a major problem. On the one hand, we are talking about new synthetic drugs that are not yet classed as drugs, and on the other hand we are talking about classed drugs where sales take place on encrypted sites, where both sellers and buyers are anonymous. 30 years ago it became illegal to use drugs in Sweden, and the law has not been evaluated since. But now Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils want the law to be evaluated to find out if it makes relief efforts more difficult for people with addiction disease or not, which we also consider to be much needed and topical. It is of great importance that people with a good knowledge of today's problems sit down and go through the current challenges so that current working methods and legislation also keep up with developments. This is not about legalisation, it is about trying to meet and help individuals with addiction disease in a better way. Mr President, I would like to People with substance abuse problems are a vulnerable group in society, which is basically in need of care. Today, the addict is often denied care, because the care offered does not correspond to the problem picture. The problem of dependence is also often linked to other forms of mental problems or diseases, but the increased prescription of drugs is also a problem. The situation of drug users has deteriorated over a period of years, a development that is not acceptable. Often they are deep into a destructive existence and may have survived one or more overdoses of drugs once they get a place in an LVU or an LVM home. In order for the help given in these homes to be as good as possible, absolute freedom from drugs is required, which one might think is a matter of course. Since a very small dose of drugs can give rise to an intoxication, checks on both mail, spaces and people in the person's presence are required. In order to prevent those who are already motivated from being affected by those who still have a strong drug intake, flexibility in placements is needed. Hard demands must be made, and sometimes controls must be carried out to ensure that the place is drug-free. In order for care and support to work, it is important to cooperate between the substance abuse and addiction care of social services and the psychiatry, addiction and primary care of health care. You should receive good care and support wherever you live, and this may mean that small municipalities need to cooperate in order to offer a wider range of interventions and treatment. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats believe that the focus must be on prevention and early detection in order to reduce the use and recruitment of young people, while ensuring good care and support for those who are caught up in addiction and addiction, as well as a law enforcement effort by customs and police.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-793	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating issues relating to alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco, areas which are highly linked to public health. Getting a society free from drugs and doping and with reduced medical and social harm caused by alcohol, along with reduced tobacco use, is an important challenge for improving health in our country. I also believe that it is absolutely crucial if we are to be able to afford welfare in the future. A great deal of work is being done to achieve this goal in municipalities, in regions and, not least, in civil society from all NGOs. To all of you, I would like to thank you very much – you are really everyday heroes for real! The state part of the job we are discussing today is governed by the ANDT strategy, which applies between 2016 and 2020. In the tobacco sector, we have a good international situation, but much remains to be done here too. As far as tobacco use is concerned, it is moving in the right direction. Daily smoking has decreased in Sweden. In 2018, the daily smoking rate was 7 per cent in the adult population. However, there has been no change in daily snus use in recent years. Since the early 2000s, young people's use of both cigarettes and snuff has also decreased, which is very pleasing. Now it is important that the new Tobacco Act is well implemented and that we have more smoke-free environments and better supervision and regulation of sales of tobacco products – all in order to achieve the goal that no people in our country will get sick because of smoking. As far as alcohol is concerned, we also see a positive development in Sweden. Total alcohol consumption decreases. Not least among young people, it is clear. It's a trend that's been going on for years. Despite alcohol advertising and the fact that large quantities of alcohol are taken into the country, total consumption has fallen. Alcohol is not just a commodity. It has a wide range of negative health effects, which we must have in the back of our head when discussing sales. But just because it is, it shouldn't stop us from thinking new. In order to increase the availability of Systembolaget's services, but also to improve the profitability of retailers, I think it is high time that we made it easier for retailers to become Systembolaget's representative. A simple system should be put in place to make country merchants warehouse agents with Systembolaget's prices as the lower limit, with the possibility to charge a higher price than Systembolaget. The second part of the innovation concerns farm sales. Today, a new industry is emerging around our countryside. Not least in Skåne we can see the trend with vineyards and local beer breweries. For these entrepreneurs, we in the Center Party want to enable farm sales. Only last Friday I was at Pär Fredholm at Fredholm's vineyard in a small village called Mjölalånga just outside Tyringe. Pär and his wife have about 1,200 vines and annually produce 1,500 bottles of white wine from the Solaris grape. Pär put it: My dream is that we will have farm sales on equal terms with the rest of Europe. That I should be able to sell one of my bottles to someone who comes cycling from the village, think how wonderful it would have been! Pär is just one in the line of entrepreneurs that I and the Center Party want to make this possible for. For decades, the Center Party has been pushing the issue of allowing farm sales. In connection with the January agreement, a major step was taken towards carrying out an investigation into the sale of alcoholic beverages by farms. One condition is that Systembolaget's monopoly is secured. I assume that the agreement will be implemented and therefore choose not to reserve me on this issue. Instead, I intend to follow this issue very closely. As far as drugs are concerned, the trend is less positive. Here we need to do more to support the broad preventive work ranging from enhanced pupil health to supporting civil society. In Sweden we can see that drug use is increasing, although from internationally rather low levels. While mortality in many European countries has stabilised and even started to decrease, we see the opposite in Sweden. In Sweden, five times as many die as in comparable countries in this disease. Then you can ask yourself why this is the case. Well, it is because, precisely in the case of this disease group, the treatment has been largely governed by political decisions and ideology and not based on science and proven experience. But here we have finally taken steps forward. Last week the Committee on Social Affairs examined an important report and a specific opinion on which we will take a decision during the vote. There are three important changes in Swedish drugs policy. Firstly, there must be an end to the division of heads of addiction and mental illness. Secondly, the law of coercion must be reviewed. Thirdly, pharmacological treatment for people with addiction diseases should be available throughout the country. These are very important decisions. These are major steps forward in drugs policy that the Center Party has long worked to push through. I am very pleased that it was a united committee that joined our motion so that we can take a decision on this. People with addiction diseases are worth treatment based on science and proven experience, not on political ideology and political opinion. Of course, I agree with all the reservations expressed by the Center Party, but for time to come, I only agree to reservation No 6.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-813	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by telling you that we support all the reservations of the Christian Democrats, but for the winning time, I only call for reservation 1. Madam President, I would like In the area of alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco – and gambling, you might add – most people agree on most things. In Sweden we want a restrictive policy on these issues. So far, so good. But there are some areas that we Christian Democrats believe could be improved. The current ANDT strategy needs to be properly updated and reviewed. Alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco are not beneficial, especially when use turns into abuse and becomes an addiction. However, the difference in damage between, for example, the use of heroin and snus is enormous. In a forthcoming revision of the ANDT strategy, there must, in fact, be a scientific review of the dangers of the various substances. From the point of view of danger, the strategy must be built on the basis of science and proven experience. This is a motion that we Christian Democrats have put forward. Why the committee as a whole does not support this is, and remains, obscure. What can be bad about constantly ensuring the best scientific support in both legislation and different forms of treatment? Many people in the committee are guilty of the answer. Madam President, I would like As far as cannabis is concerned, there is an ongoing debate in society where surprising numbers say that we should let it go for our own use. We Christian Democrats are opposed to this. The reason is that there are many serious effects of cannabis use, not least on young people whose brains are not fully developed. Cannabis is addictive and is very much the gateway to heavier drug use. I and my colleague Pia Steensland had the privilege of spending a day with the narcotics police in Stockholm a few weeks ago. We asked those who work with this daily if they think it is good to allow their own use of cannabis. The answer was an unequivocal no, given the risks, of course, and because they see a difficulty in helping people to get out of their addiction. If personal use is allowed, the police cannot intervene and start talking to them or fix and dona, but then just let it go. I asked the same question to a number of abusive people whom I had the honour to meet. Even there, the answer was consistent: No, don't let it go! One of them looked at me and said: But Michael, do you really think someone starts their addiction career by injecting heroin? No, of course not. But very often it starts with cannabis. Moreover, there is no clear evidence that a more liberal approach to cannabis use would lead to fewer heavy abuse or to less crime and greater security. On the contrary, evaluations from Colorado, U.S.A., show that when marijuana was legalized, crime increased. Madam President, I would like A major problem in the police work on drugs is the shared responsibility between health care and social services. The committee has already agreed to change this, and this afternoon the Parliament has taken a unanimous decision to announce to the government that it will set up an investigation with the aim of creating a principal in relation to addiction with concomitant diseases. This will not solve all the problems, but it is an important step on the road to better addiction care. Madam President, I would like The majority of the committee has supported the idea that smoking should be prohibited in outdoor restaurants, bus stops, outside shops and outside health care facilities, etc. The Christian Democrats said no to a general smoking ban in public places because instead we want to give municipalities greater powers to introduce local guidelines and smoking bans in outdoor environments. Legislation should be used with a great deal of weight and only when absolutely necessary. This proposal is already perceived as a concern for the country's traders. Imagine yourself, the trader has a responsibility that no one smokes outside the entrance. He's gonna go outside and talk to the people who smoke. If they do not obey and do as he says, he should go in and call a guard or a police officer. You realize for yourselves how unreasonable this is to be. It won't work in real life. Legislation that is not being followed is being eroded. Then people won't take this seriously, and then we won't get where we want to go. This new legislation, which will enter into force on 1 July, also means that traders will have a licence that will cost money. Just to show you how crazy this could get, I'll give you a few examples. In Kalmar it will cost 5 000 SEK, in Karlstad 8 000 SEK, in Sundsvall 10 000 SEK, in Umeå 7 784 SEK, in Örnsköldsvik 9 300 SEK and in Östersund 10 900 SEK. This means that the fee for a trader who wants to sell tobacco is 100 percent higher in Östersund than in Kalmar. I have put a question to the Minister about this, and it is said that the judiciary will have to clarify this. Yeah, let's hope so. Otherwise, it could be an idea to set a ceiling on how high the fee may be. Maybe it would've been a faster way. It is not reasonable that there should be so different conditions depending on which municipality you live in. Equally insensitive is it when the law says that all smoking in bus services from 1 July is prohibited. I can see a bus course on a rather desolate road somewhere in central Sweden where there are two buses a day and that I stand alone in the bus-cut and think: No, I can't smoke here, because they have said that. Our proposal is that municipalities that live close to their own reality and know where there are problems with smoking outdoors in public environments should have better opportunities to decide this for themselves. They are far better off than we can in this House. Madam President, I would like A restrictive policy within ANDT is necessary. It is equally necessary to take care of addiction without guilt and shame – a care of addiction that meets people with addiction better than it is today and provides lasting and adequate treatment.
i-6RLZaPaFiL47Xq6PpNfm2x	Madam President, I would like This report deals with the issues of alcohol, drugs, tobacco and doping. I thought I'd comment on a few topics because there's a lot of exercise and they're running in all kinds of directions. Several motions are about the abolition of the alcohol monopoly, either entirely, as the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats want, or partly, as the Center Party wants. The position of the Social Democrats on the alcohol monopoly is that we want to keep it. It is a fundamental principle of our alcohol policy that there should be no economic interests whatsoever at retail level that can help increase sales. Alcohol may also not be sold to a person under the age of 20. The reasons for this are to protect public health, limit accessibility and convey a good drinking culture. The Social Democrats think this is a good thing, and we do not want to upset that principle. The alliance parties apparently did not want this either during their term of government from 2006 to 2014, as no steps were taken in this direction. I think that's good. Madam President, I would like Some of the exercises are about the farm sale of alcohol. It's not a simple question. Had it been a simple question, farm sales would have been in place a long time ago. But it is not possible to just allow farm sales without having consequences. Two previous investigations have shown this. The Alcohol Act investigation concluded in 2009 that sales of strong beer, wine and spirits directly from the manufacturer could not be allowed because it was not compatible with Systembolaget's monopoly. According to the investigation, it was also inappropriate from the point of view of alcohol policy. A new study was carried out in 2010, which presented the report on the sale of farms. The mission was to develop proposals on how farm sales could take place in a way that was compatible with EU law but with which the retail monopoly could remain. It would also not have negative consequences for public health. The conclusion of the investigation was that it was possible to introduce farm sales but that it had to be done according to a model that did not prevent foreign producers from selling their products through farm sales. In September 2012, the then alliance government, via Minister Maria Larsson, decided that there would be no farm sale according to the 2010 proposal. Here you can see that this is not an easy question. All in all, EU law requires equivalence. If the Swedes are to sell their products, foreign manufacturers should also be allowed to do so. They should be given access to the Swedish market, and sales cannot only take place in rural areas. Farm sales are therefore not about limited sales of products made on Swedish farms, but about activities that can include both rural and urban areas and both Swedish and foreign actors. That's not what we wanted from the Swedish side. The question, however, lives on. In 2020, the government will set up an investigation into farm sales, provided that the monopoly is secured. I therefore call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-837	Madam President, I would like As far as the ANDT strategy is concerned, the Left Party has been exercising in the past to turn the strategy into a more forceful action programme with objectives to follow. At least something has to be done. I have long been fighting for needle exchange and injury minimisation for addiction and have sometimes felt quite lonely. It has been going on for quite a long time, even within Stockholm Municipality. That is why I am happy today when I hear, for example, the Moderates talk about exactly that. It's a big step forward. I am very happy that there are more of us who want to work in a more constructive way with addiction. We are talking about equal health contributions. We're talking about Naloxon. We're talking about needle exchange. And we're talking damage relief. Now only equal health and resources are lacking as well. But we'll talk about that later. Madam President, I would like The physical and mental status of the drug addiction group is very poor. There has been long-term marginalisation that has driven many between hope and despair. When it comes to prevention, drug dogs may not be a priority. It is the school that is the most important preventive effort. To complete comprehensive school with grades and to finish high school with grades is the best preventive instrument. It's structural. Failure at school is a clear indication of an increased risk of dependence and of becoming involved in criminal gangs. Any number of studies point to that. You simply have to make a bigger effort at school. It is also a class issue, Madam President. Today we have over-emergency-controlled addiction care. There is hardly time for evaluation. And there's bad housing. A lot of people in the group are homeless. They weren't when I was working with the first HIV-infected heroin addicts in Stockholm. Everyone had a place to live. It was 1987. It's gone backwards. It is also about detoxification, which has been cut all over the country. And it's about care places, coherent care chains without broken links and so on. It is also about the harm-relieving efforts, which you have been able to like completely different things about in the county councils. Madam President, I would like We need an addiction care that has low thresholds, where everyone can feel welcome. And we need specific receptions for women and young people. However, a change of law is not enough. I'm glad we've also taken the step of reviewing the headship. But there must also be a change of attitude when it comes to dependence. They have the right to equal health. There should be efforts based on research and not on any kind of ideology, as it has been to a large extent. It must also include structural measures involving housing. That's a super important question. Financial investment is needed. Welfare must also reach the most vulnerable. Madam President, I would like Now I'm going into the alcohol. When I look at the exercise I get a little fascinated and frightened. In a number of motions it is raised that the alcohol monopoly should be removed, that an alcohol monopoly is a bit boring. We're drinking so little now. Therefore, it can be sold at the Press Office instead. You can think about that. Farming is a central issue for the Center Party, which I find a little strange. When you look at alcohol dependence in Sweden you can see that 400 000 children grow up in families with hazardous alcohol consumption. 100,000 of the children's parents are in contact with various addiction clinics or are cared for in hospitals because of their dependence. But if you look at how many of those children receive support, you can see that only 2 000 - 3 000 children receive support because of their parents' dependence. Children suffer very badly and risk having psychological problems or becoming self-dependent. Today it is voluntary for municipalities to give advice and support to these children. That is why Left – we have exercised it before, but not this time – thinks that legislation is needed that means that these children and children of parents with mental health problems should have the right to receive, through law, broad assistance and support, in groups, individually and so on. This is an extremely important effort. Farm sales and the scrapping of the monopoly open the door to the market for the alcohol industry. Then I think the consequences will be rather sad for these very children. Madam President, I would like The Left Party stands for a solidarity-based alcohol policy. We believe that the availability of alcohol should be held back. It's supposed to be limited. We must have high taxes, a strong system company and stricter rules for private entry. It's something completely different from the flum-right ideas, if I may put it that way. I have been working on these issues for quite some time, in different contexts, such as the Alcohol Committee. I am very pleased that Sweden has nevertheless won to have a good alcohol policy. That has produced results, Madam President. Allowing the farm to sell alcoholic beverages alongside Systembolaget would of course mean a departure from the systematic and coherent alcohol policy that we have in Sweden and which has been very successful. I think Systembolaget is amazing. They have a very good assortment. You can go in and ask what wine you should have for the sheep; you can hardly do that in an ordinary grocery store in France. It's a little harder. Systembolaget has 400 stores and 500 retailers – my God! You can even get home delivery of alcohol these days. It's a great tool. But the best thing about Systembolaget is that it holds back alcohol consumption. I thought we agreed on that. I think you're gambling with this when you open the door to the alcohol industry and talk about farm sales as a nice thing; I would think so myself. I don't think there's a lot of people going to the farm and going packed out of there. This is not about that, Madam President. It's about that it upsets the whole of Systembolaget's existence. We have looked at the issue of farm sales in various rounds, just as the Social Democrats have raised it in the debate. The last time you looked at it properly was Maria Larsson's Minister. She commented on farm sales on 16 September 2012 that it was said then that it was not possible to maintain Systembolaget's monopoly if the proposed farm sales were to be introduced. Nothing that would change that has happened since then. I think it is partly populist and partly that it plays a lot with the market. But now the government in its 73-point program has accepted to have that business, thanks to the increasingly hungry Center. The liquor is supposed to save the countryside. I allow myself to say that I am skeptical, friends. I call for all motions to be rejected.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-860	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking Karin Rågsjö for her long-standing commitment to the development of a better Swedish addiction care. I hope, as I said, that we can continue the constructive approach that we have begun during this parliamentary term in terms of taking steps forward. It is good that we fully agree on the steps that the House took as late as today, when we decided on the announcements that we debated last week. That is very positive and good. Madam President, I would like However, I wanted to take a line based on the discussion about farm sales. I think it is almost ridiculous when this huge danger to Swedish alcohol policy is painted when we who argue for farm sales highlight it as an important issue for the possibility of developing the tourism industry, the opportunity to strengthen Sweden as a destination and the opportunity for individual traders to develop their businesses. Just as Karin Rågsjö said, it is not that that expensive wine bottle from a vineyard in Österlen is what will be the way into an alcohol abuse. However, it can be an important way forward for this company to develop its business to have the opportunity to sell to customers visiting the farm. If you want it, you can do it. That is my firm conviction. Sweden is, I know, the only country in the EU that does not have farm sales. It is therefore possible to do this, even with a retained monopoly. That is also what the announcement says. Then I find it a bit dazed that it is always assumed that Sweden has the perfect system for alcohol policy and that the monopoly is perfectly designed and delivers exactly the values that we want. There was just an interesting ESO report which I still think is worth considering and which actually condemns the Swedish alcohol monopoly. It is believed that price regulation is the way forward rather than the monopoly.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-865	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg highlights the farm sale, and I will say two things. If it was possible to have farm sales and still keep Systembolaget, which we have fought very hard to keep – if one saw it in investigations, if the EU did not react to it and if it would work perfectly – this would not be an ice. Then I do not think that would be a big question even for the Left Party. But now we have worked on the issue, and a consequence of the sale that would take place at a farm, where there would also be other goods – there would be some development – would be the EU knocking on the door and asking: What have you done with your system company? That is not at all what we have agreed on. I am absolutely convinced of this. A number of investigations have been carried out. Why should we investigate this again? I find it hard to see; I have to say that. I, who travel around quite a lot in the countryside, believe that one could increase the value of the countryside in a completely different way from just farm sales. Actually, I think so. Johan Hultberg mentioned the new investigation that has been carried out. It goes completely against all the other investigations that have been carried out in the past; that is to say. We have reduced our alcohol consumption in Sweden. We'll be happy about that. We have also worked very well with the issue in Sweden. We have also informed parents that they should not invite children to drink at home and so on. But we're gonna stick to our system company. I think this is so important in terms of alcohol consumption.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-871	Madam President, I would like In some sense, the whole discussion around ANDT is a bit colored by different locks. I can say, self-critically, that my party has had certain locks on, for example, what I highlighted in my speech about the more damaging measures in the form of syringe exchanges and other things. There it is actually that the Moderates have been a braking force many times, and is it perhaps even continued in some places in Sweden. However, I think that in this debate we must actually be able to turn stones around and look at whether our previous assumptions have been correct and correct and whether they are still valid. I do not share Karin Rågsjö's view. I think it is quite possible to have a farm sale with a retained Swedish alcohol monopoly. But when, for example, there is such a heavy report as the one that came from ESO, I think that there is still reason to evaluate the Swedish system company. For me as a moderate, the monopoly is not an end in itself – certainly not. On the contrary, my basic position is always that we should have free markets as far as possible. But the Moderates have historically supported the alcohol monopoly from a public health policy perspective. It has been a tool for achieving public health policy objectives. But now there is a report that says that this tool does not work any further, that it is other tools that have led to the effects that we have had in terms of reduced consumption and that Sweden is a little lower in consumption than, for example, our neighbour Denmark. It is said that this is not because of the monopoly, but because of our high alcohol tax. Why, Karin Rågsjö, can't we investigate and look at this? Is not the result the important and not an individual tool? Is Systembolaget an Purpose for the Left Party?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-875	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg asks if this is an end in itself. No, but Systembolaget is doing a very good job precisely to prevent an increase in alcohol consumption. Alcohol is not just any product. If we are talking about deaths, we are talking about children who are getting ill, we are talking about tragedies, alcohol is absolutely at the top of the list of ANDT issues. It breaks into all classes. Anyone can become addicted to alcohol. It can be quick if you have genetic conditions, environmental conditions and so on. If this issue had not been investigated – two investigations have looked at the issue of farm sales – I would hang on the train and say that we can look at it. But now it's under investigation. When it comes to the question of keeping Systembolaget and the report that Johan Hultberg points out, it is a report. There are 26 other reports that point to something quite different, namely that it matters. It matters what alcohol tax we have and how alcohol is sold. Accessibility plays a huge role. This can be seen in those countries that have a fairly high alcohol consumption, such as Denmark. Nevertheless, we have managed very well to keep down alcohol consumption, specifically in youth groups. If the alcohol were to be sold in the hot dog kiosk, at Ica and so on, we would not just miss out on a good service. In all probability, alcohol consumption would also increase quite rapidly. Then the alcohol damage also increases. There is something that says that the more alcoholic beverages a country drinks, the more the damage increases. There are a great many studies showing this. Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg is preparing an investigation. I can pull up 26 investigations if I can do it. This is a very important question. We think differently.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-880	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for your contribution in the debate and your clarification on what you think and think about farm sales. I think that the image that the Left Party and Karin Rågsjö paint of the farm sale is a bit tragic, so that this is something that would crush a monopoly, that would cause us to get more alcohol damage and that the countryside would bathe in alcohol in some way. That is absolutely not what this issue is about. I wonder if Karin Rågsjö has ever been out and met our producers in the countryside, especially in the Scanian countryside where very many vineyards and local beer producers have actually grown up. Their great dream is indeed to be able to sell their products with pride in the same way as is happening in the rest of Europe. This would certainly help us to develop the entrepreneurship and spirit of rural areas, where you actually want to show off your countryside with pride. You want to connect the other producers around. Maybe there's a lamb producer and someone growing asparagus. Together you create a concept and expand. That is precisely why we want to allow farm sales – in order to be able to show up, sell and create an income and an added value for their countryside in a simpler way. It is precisely small-scaleness that I really cannot understand how the Left Party and Karin Rågsjö can be against. Or that's how we're supposed to understand it – like hugging the monopoly. One sees a state guardianship and a state monopoly as the only way forward. I would like to hear a little bit about how Karin Rågsjö views this.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-884	Madam President, I would like Sofia Nilsson asked me some questions that I will try to answer. I think this is the case: behind these farms there are other interests. The whole alcohol industry is there, hoping and thinking, Wow! Hey, what's going on? In fact, if you open the door to the alcohol market, I think we will be rather in trouble. I can also talk about what Minister Maria Larsson said in a radio interview on 16 September 2012. She said that the then government did not intend to make any proposal in relation to the proposals in the sub-report on farm sales. The government considered that it was not possible to maintain Systembolaget's monopoly if the proposed farm sale was introduced. Since then, nothing has changed that will allow this issue to move on. I myself would not have any problems whatsoever with a small-scale trade that could connect different goods in rural areas – and neither would my party – if it were not that it risked Systembolaget. That is the case, and it has been pointed out several times. If so, Systembolaget will be called into question by the European Union because of the negotiations on how our alcohol sales would proceed as we did when we joined the European Union. I do not believe that this will be compatible with a monopoly. I do not hug Systembolaget, but I do not want the availability of alcohol to be such that alcohol consumption increases dramatically. That would be the case. We've been trying to have middle beer in the stores for a really long time ago, when I was a little girl– maybe you don't think so, but that's actually the way it was – and it wasn't like that, I have to say. I think you should be careful about gambling with this.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-889	Madam President, I would like Then we are once again in that picture that alcohol consumption will increase. In fact, I don't think that so many people will take their bike or their car and go out into the countryside, perhaps 20 miles outside a densely populated area, to purchase the weekend's ration of alcohol. This is about smaller lots of wines or beer that is a craft and that you want to sell. I'm thinking about what you said in your post that the alcohol market is behind this, Karin Rågsjö. You can also think about what kind of alcohol market and pressure is behind Systembolaget. The big bulk there are often bag-in-box wines. There is probably no local producer who will have such a large production and production as the companies that mix together and sell bag-in-box wines. What causes dependence and big problems and difficulties in families is actually the big bulk – bag-in-box wines, which Systembolaget happily sells. I think it's a bigger problem that we have such large quantities at Systembolaget. I do not believe in painting the picture that alcohol consumption would increase because we have small, small-scale farm sales.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-892	Madam President, I would like Sofia Nilsson is asking about the same questions as before. I can say this: I do not think, of course, that alcohol consumption will increase depending on the farms. No one is going to go out on the bike, fill up with wine and go home again. It won't happen. In the good world, the EU would say, "Well, go for it – you can keep Systembolaget and run farm sales!" But that will not be the case. That is the problem, namely that farm sales will knock the EU on the door. I am absolutely convinced of this, and it is not only I who believe it, but very many others too. The European Union will say that this monopoly you would have, Systembolaget, would mean that you would not sell alcohol in other shops. Now you do. Then we question Systembolaget. ..................................................... In the long run it can mean that Systembolaget disappears. If we do not have Systembolaget, alcohol consumption will go up. If customers can buy their alcohol in the store anyway, it will be difficult to control. There will be increased accessibility, and, as you know, it will mean increased consumption – especially for people who have problems with alcohol consumption. I'm absolutely convinced of that, and I'm not the only one who is. If this were about us having farm sales and having Systembolaget left – if it were possible to unite and if the EU were to understand us – I would certainly not mind farm sales. Then I'd be a promoter of farm sales, but that's not the case. That is not the case, and it has been investigated. Now we're going to investigate again, which I think is a little unnecessary.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-897	Madam President, I would like The Liberals support the report on ANDT. What is written here is based on the national strategy we decided on a few years ago that runs between 2016 and 2020. I find that some reservations here actually only reinforce what is already in the strategy, while some others are of a different nature. I want to say that the Liberals want to protect the monopoly. We have followed closely the assessments of the monopoly that have come over a number of years and paid particular attention to the fact that the World Health Organisation is of the same opinion, namely that the monopoly is a very important instrument for keeping an eye on the use of alcohol. What I want to mention here is that, under the January agreement, we have agreed to investigate farm sales once more. There are different opinions within the Liberals about the success of such an investigation. Having read the previous investigations, I doubt that a way can be found to combine farm sales with the maintenance of the monopoly, but it is certainly good that a new investigation is being carried out. Alcohol consumption in Sweden is declining in a pleasant way. The exception is the year-long generation, where we see both an increase in alcohol consumption and an increase in drug damage. This has been brought to the attention of the Public Health Agency, so there are knowledge compilations – which I hope will be really used in the country. I know that pensioners' organisations take advantage of the content. One question that was relevant when we said yes to alcohol in retirement homes was that it was feared that it would cause problems. Now there have been reports that there is a retirement home where this is a problem. It is important that the responsible authority now takes care of this and supports the staff in how to deal with it. Because you do very different things in different places. Here lies the privacy and self-determination of the individual, i.e. the resident, in one balance, and in the other balance lies how the environment of other residents and the staff is affected if someone uses too much alcohol. I would also like to mention tobacco. There will be a smoking ban on 1 July, and there are different views on this. What I think is most serious is that there is no money to go out and inform the public and entrepreneurs – the outlets and restaurants – about the reasons behind this and how to handle permits and other things. To a question, the Swedish Public Health Agency answered that you do not have any money and that the parliamentary decision was taken so late that you have already earmarked all the money available for 2019, but the Government Office says that the Swedish Public Health Agency has money for information. I think this is serious. This applies not only to this legislation, but to legislation in many areas. We adopt laws in all good sense but fall in terms of then getting the knowledge of them out to society in an understandable way. Then, as we did in the SIP investigation, we see that there is no idea that this law exists. I think that we in the Committee on Social Affairs should really keep an eye on the fact that, when we adopt new legislation, we also have to have the resources to inform about it. The snus is less dangerous if we look at cancer but not when it comes to cardiovascular disease. Now there has been a thesis by Felicia Nordenstam, who has followed children who have been exposed to snus, tobacco or neither during pregnancy. It now turns out that the former have vascular damage and higher blood pressure, both a few months after birth and when they are five six years old. It is as dangerous to snus during pregnancy as to smoke, and this information must be released. I would also like to say something about drugs. I helped start the injection exchange in 1986, so it's a long trip. There has now been a thesis, which should convince municipalities, regions and county councils that we should have a syringe exchange, that those who are offered syringe exchange come much more into treatment, so-called LARO, for their addiction. This brings us to the headship. This is a disease, and those who take advantage of the needle exchange have confidence in health care that they obviously do not have in social services. So the decision that was made earlier today is great. Now I see a red light on the clock here. I know I have to go over time, but I'm not actually going to. The clock's ticking!
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-909	Madam President, I would like Today we are discussing the ANDT strategy. ANDT stands for alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco. I think we could actually add more letters to this strategy – we could talk about gambling addiction, sex addiction and perhaps even screen abuse. Here we work in different ways. It has begun to pay attention to screen abuse – I think we all feel from time to time how this affects not least our young people, who no longer move as much. The government is now taking on gambling addiction, which includes all the hugely aggressive marketing that is taking place against those who are vulnerable and the tragedies that this leads to for gambling addicts and their families. I think many of us here – at least I – remember the 90s, when you were smoking in cafes and restaurants. It was foggy all over the hall. You barely saw each other, but it was the natural thing. Horror came when smoking was banned. It was thought that it would be so terribly boring and that no one would want to go to restaurants or restaurants. It's kind of strange that it was actually like that. Now it feels so good to be able to go there and breathe fresh air, and asthmatics can sit in restaurants. In addition, many of us – including myself – have actually stopped smoking. Because of this, we have seen a decline in the number of people in Sweden who smoke. Speaking of this by banning smoking everywhere, there is another strange phenomenon, not least here in Sweden, namely smoking on the street and throwing away the butt. You stomp on it and move on. This is actually an environmental problem; it takes 200 years for a butt to decompose into nature. The microplastics in there are a huge problem. It's strange – we don't throw other junk on the ground, but we just throw butts in Sweden. In Sweden we have a fairly high alcohol consumption, one may say. Unfortunately, there are children who are forced to grow up in drug families where a lot of alcohol is consumed. We in Sweden have a lot to work on when it comes to taking care of these children and these families. We in the Green Party think it is good that we have a system company. It is good that in the new government constellation with C and L we have agreed that Systembolaget's monopoly should be preserved. But what really affects most, Madam President, is drugs. It is not just about the people who use drugs but about the whole drug industry. It affects developing countries in particular, where drugs are often produced. Criminal gangs, heavy, serious crime, and vicious death follow in the wake of drug abuse. The drugs then land in Sweden, for example. Here too we can see that there is a difference: there is more crime out in our suburbs, where it is traded. I saw the DEA last week. Anyone who looks at where young people tend to see most that it is not in the suburbs. User surveys have been conducted and girls and boys in grade 9. The surveys have been blind – the people in the surveys are therefore anonymous. It turns out that 22 per cent of the boys in grade 9 at Kungsholmen and Norrmalm here in Stockholm have used narcotics. So this is in ninth grade. In grade 2 in upper secondary school, 40 percent of girls have tested narcotics. These policemen were alarmed and told us parents that we really need to be careful about checking our children. This was true of all parents. They are out lecturing about this in all schools, and that is very important. We should be very clear that all drug use – including cannabis abuse – is extremely harmful. There is also research showing that there are people who have cognitive impairments and who suffer from schizophrenia, for example, due to the use of cannabis. Madam President, I would like It is important that we here in the Swedish Parliament – and we agree on this – see addiction as a disease. We saw the case of Sanne, and there are many Sanne in Sweden. There are many who have fallen between the chairs – between the social services and the health services – and who have not received treatment for the addiction and the often underlying mental illnesses at the same time. They have been thrown between different chairs and have not received the necessary care at all. It is great that we in the committee agree that we should now have a principal and that this cannot happen without being able to get help at the same time. Another important thing is not only to work preventively but also with those who are stuck in an addiction. It is important that nurses are allowed to print out Naloxon, that it can be directly sold so that those who need Naloxon do not have to go to the pharmacy and collect it but can get it in their hands. The distribution of waste is also an important contribution. It is important that it will be available throughout Sweden. This is not the case today, it is quite unequal. One important thing that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Lena Hallengren mentioned a few days ago is that there should be a review of the Sis and HVB homes, which is needed. There are alarm reports that the first people who come there with addiction have met with drugs. With these words, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision and rejection of the motions.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-928	Madam President, I would like I think this is an important debate, so let us have it for a moment. It is a bit striking, Madam President, when you listen to the representatives of the government parties in this debate but also in previous debates that there are not so many proposals from the government parties on how to develop, for example, this activity. It is mostly rather general descriptions of the situation, problematising and so on. I think it is a bit inadequate. But I think it is true, as Pernilla Stålhammar said in her speech, that we often have the wrong picture of the use of drugs. We are happy to believe that it is in socially vulnerable areas and so on that farming is at its greatest, but it absolutely does not have to be so. That is why it is important to carry out studies that, for example, involve drawing drug residues into waste water in order to gain a better picture of knowledge and a basis for good work. Pernilla Stålhammar said in her speech here that it is important that we, as parents, take a great deal of responsibility. Then I have to ask the question that I put in my speech: does not the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the parties supporting the budget that the government has put forward think it is important to support parents as well? M and KD had an annual investment of SEK 75 million in parental support programmes and want it to be mandatory in each municipality, precisely because we see that parents are so important in providing their children with good upbringing and support through life but also because parenting is demanding, tough and difficult. As parents, we can all need counseling and special efforts to be good parents and to deal with situations where your children test and experiment with drugs. Why have you withdrawn that resource? Why do you not want to give all parents in Sweden access to parental support programmes?
i-Uk7js2XW7aXfvaLYgmqNVZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for the question! We're all working hard on these issues. I would say that quite a number of efforts are being made, at least here in Stockholm, with regard to parents, schools and how to work on drug addiction and the dissemination of information, how to inform teachers and how to organise such meetings as I mentioned here. But I have to say that I do not know what it looks like in the rest of the country and what needs might possibly be outside Stockholm. I can't really answer your question. But I agree that there are many things that record when it comes to who it is who tests drugs from the start, often cannabis. It is those who may not have good self - confidence, who do not have a home environment where parents are present properly or for other reasons have gone wrong. It's terrible if you do it already in very young years. We must invest all the resources there.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-935	Madam President, I would like I am quite convinced that how you work to prevent addiction and that our young people start testing drugs are very different in Sweden. It is clear that the conditions in Stockholm are completely different from in my municipality of Tanum, which has a completely different population base and a different structure. But whether you are a parent in Tanum or in Stockholm, I think it is important that there is access to good support. The parental support programme to which we, KD and M, allocated resources is about providing broader support to parents. Of course, it is not just about these issues, but it is very much about getting support in their parental role to be able to face, for example, the growing problem of mental illness, which Mrs Stålhammar mentioned in her reply, is certainly linked to how to test and experiment with drugs. It is worrying and regrettable that the government parties have chosen to abolish this effort. I think that the government, and apparently also Pernilla Stålhammar, owes the answer to what you want to do instead. Madam President, I would like Another issue that is urgent, and which Mr Stålhammar also mentioned in his speech, concerns our Sis institutions where young people come to be who have fallen wrong and in an abuse. There we know that the drug incidence is very high. It has not succeeded well enough to protect young people from what they are actually there to be cared for and helped for, namely their addiction. Is the Green Party prepared to look at the possibility of giving Sis greater powers in the area of peace? Today, for example, it is not even possible for Sis to reject people living in the area around the institutions – people who are simply there to deliver drugs into the home.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-939	Madam President, I would like Mr Hultberg once again raises an extremely important issue. As I said just now, it is important that we now look at the Sis homes and HVB homes, because we have seen that there are problems there, not least with access to drugs. We have seen various features on SVT, Mission review, and on TV4, which have shown that the first thing young people face is the sale of drugs. Of course, we can't have that. The review that the government will carry out now is very important. It's possible that things like this can get in there. The Green Party does not question whether such a thing could happen.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-942	Madam President, I would like Today, we in the Committee on Social Affairs are going to debate public health issues in this House. Let me first say that I am extremely pleased with the willingness of the Committee on Social Affairs to introduce HPV vaccines into the general vaccination programme also for boys – one for us Moderates important and welcome will. It is now up to the government to work on this as a matter of urgency. Public health issues are an important area for me, but they do not always receive as much attention as health care. The debate is usually about health care and not about health issues. Let us now turn around and start discussing prevention and prevention more. Moving around is positive for our health, we are all aware of that. Yet there is a report that sedentary sittings are on the increase. The Pep report, which is a major health study involving over 11,000 children and their guardians, has mapped how children aged 4-17 move and what they eat linked to lifestyles. The report shows that girls move less than boys and teenagers less than younger children, and only four out of ten children report eating vegetables daily. The results of this report confirm that we face major challenges in achieving public health policy objectives. For society, the consequences of physical inactivity and unhealthy eating habits are costs of many billions annually. With clear coordination and prioritisation of the issue, we can jointly help to turn the development towards a more active and healthy future for Sweden. Madam President, I would like Last week I together started Mats Wiking, Member of Parliament of the Social Democrats, up the parliamentary health care network. It is a network that I hope can be a forum for these very important issues. We started with a seminar on the sugar in our diet and a seminar on the importance of physical activity for our children and young people. There are many good examples in our country. Let me mention one that I have followed closely, the wellness group in Kungsbacka in Halland. It is a concept that includes mental, social and physical health. It is a working model of collaboration since 2010 between the region, the municipality and the association and business community for children with overweight. This model focuses on the children who most need it. The model reaches children with overweight or obesity in combination with physical or mental illness that often led to high school absenteeism. These children constitute a group with high expected morbidity and low quality of life, with high costs for society. The participants in the wellness group participate in group activities with activities that stimulate movement and strengthen the children's self-esteem. Madam President, I would like Physical activity is also important for age-rich people. One of the biggest single causes of hospitalisation for the elderly is falls. In many cases both the case and possible fracture could have been avoided by physical activity. A regular dose of physical activity works broadly and preventively against a number of diseases at the same time. One is dementia where the risk decreases by 30 percent. It shows that it is never too late to influence one's health. Having said that, it is extremely sad that the government removed precisely the state aid for sport for the elderly that was included in the M-KD budget. With this initiative we could have started a collaboration, writes the three chairmen of the Swedish Sports Federation, PRO and SPF Seniores in a joint debate article on 16 April. They also write: a public education effort on food and meal could have been made available, more meeting places would have been available, and facilities would have been available during the day for physical activity to feel better and more able, as well as increased community to reduce loneliness and isolation. ..................................................... I am not saying that this would have solved everything, Madam President, but it would have been a good help for a more healthy ageing. I recently visited South Korea. It's an interesting country in many ways. Many were on the move, and well - attended outdoor gyms were abundant. But what I thought was an extra smart and easy way to show the importance of everyday movement was that on the steps of the stairs there was a small figure that showed how many calories were burned for each step. On the other side of the step was shown how many seconds one extended life by taking the stairs. This was a positive and informative way of encouraging everyday exercise, which for me is public health. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I support our specific opinion and our reservations, but for time-winning, I only support reservation 6. It is a reservation that is extremely important because it is about suicide prevention. We Moderates believe that more needs to be done to prevent mental illness and reduce the incidence of suicide. It is important to gain a better understanding of the underlying causes and to strengthen prevention. Suicide can be the ultimate consequence for a person suffering from mental illness. We Moderates believe that suicide research and prevention need to be strengthened. Let us discuss preventive measures and a public health policy without coercion and pointers, a policy that works to enable a health policy direction that provides the right conditions for an active and more healthy lifestyle.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-958	Madam President, I would like She's no longer with us. She left us just after years of fighting her mental illness. She was young, beautiful and well educated with a social network and an exciting job. She had all the conditions. But the anguish was too strong; it took over her life. It was medical experimentation. She was alone and locked up in the psychiatric clinic. I cannot help but ask myself: Has anyone ever been healed by such measures? We live in a modern society that is constantly evolving. We have advanced medical technology development, and we can save lives in quite spectacular ways. At the same time, we often cannot offer patients suffering from symptoms such as severe depression and anxiety more than medication and storage. The reason for this is not a lack of other effective treatments. There are many proven and successful methods that show very good effects. In March this year, I made a study visit to a psychiatric clinic in Lund, where I got information about user-controlled admissions. It is a method aimed at persons with self-harm. User-driven placement means that patients can decide for themselves when they want to be admitted, based on the contract developed jointly with responsible healthcare professionals. The self-selected insert has had very good effects. The method involves patients in their treatment and increases their own responsibility, which means a great deal of security for the patient. In addition to notably positive effects for patients with self-harm problems, a positive outcome is a reduced number of acute deposits, which means that healthcare resources can be used more efficiently. User-led approach is just one of many successful methods that can be considered as an alternative treatment method. In order to achieve new results, we need to be more eager to try new and innovative treatments. Madam President, I would like Suicide is the most common cause of death among young people in Sweden. It is therefore shameful that the need for suicide prevention is not taken more seriously. It has soon been eleven years since the Swedish Parliament adopted a zero vision against suicide, but serious efforts to meet the high suicide rates have not been made. The figures continue to be very worrying. In Sweden, about 1,500 people take their lives every year. Some 15 000 people try to kill themselves each year, and as many as 150 000 people suffer from serious suicidal thoughts. This is far from enough to counteract the existence of suicide, and the Swedish Democrats want to change that. In order to achieve results, concrete milestones must be set in the pursuit of zero vision. We believe that this work should be led by a national coordinator who should have a collective responsibility for the suicide prevention work. We also need to deal with how we catch up and treat suicidal people. The risk of relapse after a suicide attempt is markedly increased during the first year. Healthcare therefore needs to work on clear structures in the form of guidelines and methods for the follow-up of suicide-related patients. In Sweden, healthcare should not let go of people who are in so great need of subsequent care. We need to standardise guidelines that should apply throughout the country, guidelines to ensure that each patient receives adequate and personalised care after the discharge date to prevent repeated suicide attempts. Today this is not self-evident, and the Swedish Democrats believe that it must be. Madam President, I would like Every suicide is a tragedy, a tragedy that in many cases could have been prevented with the right efforts. Let's not deny it. As politicians, we have a great responsibility to deal with the current developments and to do everything in our power to face the increased mental illness in our society. The Swedish Democrats last week presented a strong package of measures with targeted resources to combat mental illness, which is the greatest public health challenge of our time. In the package of measures we allocate, among other things, 150 million annually to the overall national work on suicide prevention. We also allocate SEK 5 million annually to research on suicide and SEK 55 million annually to non-profit organizations that work with suicide prevention and other interventions in the field of mental illness. We are prepared to do what is necessary to reverse developments and strengthen the mental health of the Swedish population. That is a question which my party is giving very high priority. I support all the reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservation No 7.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-977	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that we Christian Democrats support all our reservations in the report, but out of respect for the time in this House, I only call for our reservation No 14. I would also like to emphasise that we support the committee's position, which assumes that the government will urgently ensure that HPV vaccination of boys is introduced into the general vaccination programme. Madam President, I would like Public health in Sweden is developing positively, and life expectancy continues to increase. People are more involved in their health than ever before, and that is very pleasing. At the same time, however, health is unequally distributed. In some groups, stress, mental stress, smoking, alcohol risk, overweight, and other health problems increase. There are therefore still significant health gains in strengthening pre-emptive work. Through early detection and person-centred care, many public health problems can be prevented. Strengthening primary care, together with a continued restrictive alcohol policy and preventive work on issues such as smoking and physical activity, is therefore crucial. A Christian-democratic public health policy aims to support the individual in making healthy choices. It should be easy to do the right thing, and then society must also offer evidence-based support that promotes good choices. Madam President, I would like In an international perspective, Sweden is good at scientifically developing and evaluating public health promotion projects. Here, City, Stockholm prevents alcohol and drug problems, at the Centre for Psychiatry Research at Karolinska Institutet here in Stockholm, is a role model. For almost 25 years, they have successfully developed several preventive methods in ANDT – alcohol, drugs, doping and tobacco. The city's working models consist of three crucial parts. First of all, there is collaboration and mobilisation of key actors in society. It can be municipalities, restaurant owners or youth receptions, to give some examples. The key players are then trained and, finally, intensive policy work is done and supervision is improved. Responsible alcohol serving, which aims to reduce over-serving of alcohol and prevent serving to minors, and Hooks against drugs, which aim to reduce the prevalence of drugs in the restaurant environment, are two examples of effective methods. The evaluation of these two programmes has shown, among other things, that ghost crime is reduced by 29 percent, and for every penny spent on Responsible Alcohol Serving, society has also saved 39 SEK in the form of missing costs for violence-related crimes. The good result has led several countries in Europe to cooperate with the City to implement the methods in their home countries. Madam President, I would like All prevention work requires long-term, continuous education and follow-up. The problem in Sweden is that no authority is responsible for managing and quality-assuring the implementation of the evidence-based methods. If municipalities and county boards do not get support in using the methods properly, the results will not be achieved, despite the resources invested. We now see that the implementation of responsible alcohol serving, for example, has weakened in recent years, and in several municipalities the use of the method has unfortunately been completed. It is a waste of our common resources to first develop and evaluate methods and then renounce responsibility for those methods that have a proven intended effect. As a researcher and a Christian Democrat, I believe that it should be a matter of course to actively manage and implement those projects that have shown good public health-promoting effects through scientific evaluation. I regret that not enough parties supported this proposal. Madam President, I would like Involuntary loneliness is a major social problem that needs to be taken more seriously than it is today. Figures from SCB show that over 1 million people in Sweden lack a close friend. Statistics from our funerals strengthen the image that more and more people live in loneliness. In 1990 the average number of participants at a funeral ceremony was 49. In 2016, the corresponding figure was 24. More and more funerals also take place without ceremony, without a single friend or relative. According to figures from Sweden's Funeral Homes, almost every ten funerals take place in this way here in Stockholm. Involuntary loneliness has obvious negative effects on mental health but also on our physical health. As early as 2010, U.S. researchers in a large meta-study showed that involuntary loneliness is as much a risk factor for premature death as smoking. Research at Karolinska Institutet shows that loneliness affects, among other things, the brain's pain center. Even our cognitive abilities can be affected already by an expectation of future loneliness. It is clear that a greater national political focus is needed on the issue of loneliness. We Christian Democrats therefore want to develop a comprehensive national strategy for the fight against involuntary loneliness and isolation. The strategy should cover everything from urban planning to health care, school and civil society. Madam President, I would like The most devastating and fatal effect of mental illness and in some cases loneliness is when a person sees no other way out than to end his own life. About 1,500 people kill themselves every year in Sweden. Every day — today — four people see no other way out. We Christian Democrats believe that much more needs to be done to prevent mental illness and reduce the number of suicides. It is important to increase awareness of the underlying causes and to strengthen prevention. Suicide research and prevention therefore need to be strengthened. It is also important that all county councils and regions have action plans and stated goals to prevent suicide. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. We Christian Democrats, based on a way of working in Britain, want a Commission of Accidents to be set up when a person has committed suicide. Social services, schools, police, healthcare and civil society will together conduct an investigation into what has happened and what has broken. An accident commission does not give life back to family members who have lost a loved one, but it may save someone else's children or relatives. This is important. Madam President, I would like Through increased knowledge and evidence-based methods, we can improve public health, and most importantly: we can save lives. I would therefore like to emphasise once again that I support the Christian Democrats' reservation 14 under paragraph 20, which aims to ensure the management and implementation of successful public health promotion projects.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-992	( FIRST E VICE TALMANN: I would like to ask whether it is really reservation 14, which is therefore the reservation of SD and L, not the reservation of the Christian Democrats. Please come back and ask for the floor again! )
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-993	Madam President, I would like I think there's some trouble in the reservation list. I now ask for reservation 1 under paragraph 1 on the revision of the CDC. We believe that this is justified because the HIV situation today is quite different from when the CDC was adopted. Today we have well-treated HIV infected people who are not contagious, and then we think that the obligation to inform should be changed. I did not intend to support 1.1, but our reservation on the health of the elderly from a public health point of view. On p. 43, it is treated, and it reads: However, in the draft that we received for the session of the adjustment, there is reservation 15 on this issue, and it is not included at all. I do not think that the world stops spinning because there is something strange in the list, but I intend to spend some time on the very reservation that then does not exist, about the health of the elderly from a public health perspective. We adopted the public health targets last year. At that time we wanted a goal about the health of the elderly, but we did not hear about it. That is why we have exercised that older people's health should be taken into account through integration into the other goals, with the exception of the objective of the conditions of early life. It kind of doesn't fit in there. But the other goals are housing, living habits, health care, work and so on. A very large study has been carried out by more than 200 researchers in 35 countries, and it deals with ageism and how it strikes in different areas. It highlights examples showing that, in the field of public health, this generation is not included to the extent that it should be. If you take work as an example, the work environment does not take into account the needs of the year-long employees in the way they should. The same applies to housing and health care in general. That is why we wanted to emphasise that the public health aspects of older people must be addressed in all these areas. We can see that mental illness is particularly important. We have discussed this in another exercise. When we write exercise and the chamber office sort them out, they sometimes end up under different headlines. As a result, this exercise did not end up in the field of public health, but in another report. The mental health of the year-rich person is very poorly considered. In Sweden there are six specialists in elderly psychiatry. That's all there is. But this is the largest group of mental ill health, which we see if we go into the statistics. This is also the largest group of people who use psychopharmaceuticals. That is why this should be better highlighted. We also see that the group where suicide occurs most is in the group 65-plus. This attracts very little interest. I have mentioned this earlier in the speaker's chair. Of course, suicide prevention is very important among young people who have their whole lives ahead of them, but that the older generation a commits suicide must be taken very seriously. We heard earlier from the KD that loneliness is a problem in this context. However, the government has invested money here. Pensioners' organisations are getting quite a lot of money now to tackle the problem of loneliness. We legislators cannot say exactly how solitude should be addressed, but it is above all civil society, health care and social services that can do so. But they must be given tools. Of course social interaction is important but you can also facilitate Skype contact with children and grandchildren. It could be a matter of association with animals. Former dog owners may not dare to get a new dog. That's something I've mentioned before. Instead, they can become daymatte for both dogs and cats. So there is a great deal to be done in this area, and it is an important public health issue. ( First VICE PRESIDENT: Before Mr Barbro goes down from the speaker's seat, I would like to ask about the motions. So you applied for reservation 1, but what about reservation 14? ) I only ask for reservation 1, not 14 or 15. They looked a little different in the text. Like I said before, I don't think the world's gonna end because things got weird around here.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1005	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected. Public health for me as a social democrat is about my whole life. Public health is about how we live and whether we have work, education, security and social interaction. Of course, it is also about whether we are healthy, about what we eat and whether we are moving. It is also about class differences and feeling included. Today, many people live in alienation. In different districts of the same city, the years of life can distinguish between seven and ten years depending on where you were born and where you live. Madam President, I would like We also see how more children are sedentary in front of a computer and that the overweight among children and young people is increasing. Above all, we need a society in which public authorities, together with citizens, take greater responsibility for ensuring that public health is accessible to all citizens. It should not matter where you live or what school you go to; access to good public health is a right for both large and small, young and old. Here, preventive work is extremely important, as many have been involved. It is important to feel included in the community. The World Health Organisation, WHO, has also set an exciting goal, which I believe the Parliament has endorsed. It's about removing the gap between the poor and the rich in a generation. For that to be possible, however, the journey must begin here and now. Madam President, I would like When it comes to parenthood and children's growing-up conditions, parents should be able to be offered support in their parenting role in order for children to have the best conditions. This has been the subject of a number of comments. Family centres, open preschools and accessible preschools are prerequisites for this. We know that childhood and youth have a bearing on mental and physical health throughout life. Access to language and social and cognitive development in childhood affects, according to research, the future health of the individual, the acquisition of knowledge and actually the possibility of employment. The government therefore takes seriously the mental health of children and young people, and the efforts of parents, society and non-profit forces can be crucial for a successful upbringing and future. Society also needs to provide space to stimulate physical activity and good eating habits. We can offer more sugar-free food in preschools and schools. We can work hard to create good playgrounds that stimulate spontaneous play. We can also support parents in their parental responsibility and parenting to give children a push in the right direction. We know today that the proportion of people with obesity has tripled since the 1980s and continues to increase. Both economics and eating habits play a role here. Strangely enough, fast food is often cheaper, and therefore good food is also a class issue. The Swedish Public Health Agency and the Swedish Food Safety Agency have therefore received a special commission from the government to develop a basis for better health with a focus on good eating habits and physical activity. The Finnish Food Authority will help consumers make more informed choices when buying food. But perhaps we politicians also need to consider whether, for example, it will be more expensive with various useless products. Madam President, I would like All people living in Sweden must have good protection against infectious and communicable diseases. The Public Health Agency has a national responsibility for the existence of good coordination of disease protection. We can see in the national strategy, among other things, that in the case of HIV/AIDS, the situation has changed from being a fatal disease to being a chronic infection today. Madam President, I would like According to the Disease Control Act, the county council and head of student health are responsible for offering vaccinations against infectious diseases. In the case of vaccination of boys against HPV, the Public Health Authority considers that the criteria of the Disease Control Act are met, and therefore they should be included in the national general vaccination programme for children. The Social Affairs Committee agrees on the matter and assumes that the Government will urgently prepare the Swedish Public Health Authority's documentation. Madam President, I would like We know today that more people are killing themselves than are dying in traffic. In a humanitarian society, we need to be better at detecting and preventing suicide. Caring about and asking when we see that fellow humans around us are mentally ill is a way of caring, and that is a civic duty. In the January agreement, the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Liberals have agreed to combat ill health. The agreement includes, among other things, strengthening suicide prevention through increased resources for the dissemination of knowledge and support to organisations that work preventively. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Public Health Agency to allocate funds to organizations that work with suicide prevention. In March 2019 – just recently – the government decided to allocate an additional SEK 5 million to non-profit organisations that work preventively. Madam President, I would like Knowledge of sexual and reproductive health needs to be strengthened. Therefore, the Swedish Public Health Agency has also been commissioned by the Government to promote knowledge building and national coordination in the field. It is a way of responding to people's needs in issues related to sexuality. In 2016, the Government invested SEK 280 million in a four-year investment in meeting the increasing ill-health among children and young people. There would be a particular focus on setting up and developing youth clinics. The public health objectives adopted in 2018 state that it is important to create social conditions for good and equal health throughout the population. Raising awareness in society is needed, and increasing the participation and involvement of older people in society is an important social investment. Several have considered that participation counteracts loneliness and mental ill-health in the population. Madam President, I would like It is important that in a country like Sweden it is safe to grow up. There should be good opportunities for physical activation and access to good and healthy nutrition. Parents should feel good support from society when they need help in the role of parents, for example through family centres that exist throughout Sweden. Citizens who are mentally ill should feel that there is good support in the community through fellow people, municipalities and health care. A basic prerequisite for a good life is to feel involved, be important and be sought after among friends, workmates, classmates and relatives – whether you are old or young. We also know that employment and working conditions are of great importance to public health. When the conditions are good, they can provide economic security, social status, personal development, social relations, self-esteem and protection against physical and psychosocial risks.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1025	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that we are now laying the foundations for making important decisions that will enable public health work to move forward. In particular, I am thinking of the proposal that HPV vaccination of boys should be included in the general vaccination programme. This is an issue on which the Center Party has long worked. Public health covers a wide range of areas. This is everything from preventive health work to vaccination programmes. During my speech, I will dwell on two major areas, both of which are among the greatest challenges we face in terms of health work, namely mental illness and antibiotic resistance. For many years, public health work has been stammering in Sweden. Some might even say that it has gone backwards. Drug mortality is among the highest in Europe. Mental ill health is increasing. Children are more sedentary. We get worse fitness, and overweight and obesity increase. These are some of the health factors for which I am very concerned. Report on the report shows that there are a large number of children and young people who are not well in our country. At the latest this week we were able to take note of Generation Pep's report, which testifies to just that. To do more for children and young people, to protect those who are most vulnerable, we must manage. Preventive work is crucial and needs to be vigorously pursued. Various forms of mental illness today are the most common health problem in Sweden. Above all, women and young people are affected. In order to have a prosperous population, this must be taken seriously. We have to reverse the trend. In order to help all those affected, access needs to be increased, resources increased and, not least, prevention is a priority. Preventive work should always be the priority. The more people we can help at an early stage of mental illness, the fewer people become long-term ill. Therefore, the working methods and treatment of symptoms need to be further developed. For young people affected, school plays a major and important role. The school's transparency and understanding of young people's everyday lives is invaluable. That is why we in the Center Party want better coordinated work between school health care, primary care and social services. Students' health and school health care should be given their own responsibility for the individual's mental and physical health, and there should be access to psychiatric skills in schools. But it's not just young people who feel bad. The elderly are also a vulnerable group in terms of mental illness. The proportion of elderly people with depression is estimated to be so large that one can talk about a public health problem. Here too, care needs to be strengthened. It must be easier for people with mental illness to get the first contact with care. By enabling people with easier mental illness to apply for the first support on their own, without referral from a doctor, more people can be caught up and get help directly. The ultimate and worst consequence of mental illness is suicide. In 2008, the Riksdag adopted a zero vision of suicide. The bill "Renewed public health policy" states that "No one should end up in such a vulnerable situation that the only way out is perceived as suicide". The government has a vision that no one should have to take their own life. ..................................................... It is high time we took this zero vision seriously! Over the past 15 years, suicides have decreased by 20 percent in Sweden, but this does not apply to young people and young adults, where the number of suicides has remained at the same level for a long time. This is a development that we absolutely cannot accept. That is why I am pleased that the substantive agreement reached between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party in January 2019 includes strengthening suicide prevention through increased resources for national dissemination of knowledge and financial support for organisations that work preventively. The second major societal challenge we face – perhaps, Madam President, even the greatest threat of our time – is about antibiotic resistance. For care, resistant bacteria are an ever-present threat. When antibiotics no longer work, a common operation can become life-threatening. After 2050, 10 million people are estimated to die annually because of antibiotic resistance – if we do not take action now. I do not think we have quite understood the extent and seriousness of the matter. Antibiotics are the most valuable medicine available. We have long assumed that antibiotics treat most infections caused by bacteria, but in the near future we cannot do so. This is an issue that concerns all of us. Premature babies with resistant infections have also died in Sweden. We could read about that in the paper at the latest this weekend. Within the EU, nearly 100 people die every day because antibiotic treatment for bacterial infections is failing. The whole modern health care system is actually under threat. In some countries, the mortality rate of stem cell transplant patients carrying multi-resistant bacteria is so high that it is discussed whether the procedure is ethically justifiable. For too long the world has ignored the warning signals. Uncritical over-reliance on the pharmaceutical industry's ability to constantly develop new antibiotics when old people are no longer working has led to a lax approach to antibiotics and in many countries completely uncontrolled use of these important drugs. That must not continue. Sweden is a world leader in the work against antibiotic resistance, and there are also many years of experience of collaboration between universities and authorities in low and middle income countries. Now we have to roll up our sleeves a snap on that leader's shirt and work even harder to achieve collective global responsibility for one of the greatest destiny issues of our time.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1043	Madam President, I would like Public health concerns different areas. The biggest problem is the increased difference in health in terms of class. We can now see that working women lose their lives for months. This has not happened for a very long time, and it is about increasing inequality. It is an extremely central issue. I'm gonna talk to you about mental illness. This is an extremely important issue which I think we have all raised. It's specifically about suicide. I'm re-rehearsing some numbers. Maybe that's a good thing. There are almost 1,500 people who kill themselves every year, three to four suicides per day in Sweden. It is extremely important that people who are mentally ill receive direct help in the healthcare sector and do not get any words on the way about coming back any other day. It affects the elderly, as I have mentioned before, and it also affects young people. There are 150 young people under the age of 24 who kill themselves in Sweden every year. It's the most common cause of death in that age group. It is a great tragedy for them, their relatives and their parents, Madam President. The mental illness is very high in LGBTQ people. For example, every third trans person has considered taking their own life in the past year. That's a very high number. We have no motions or reservations about this. However, we have raised these issues very much in the past. We have exercised the idea of developing a national plan of action to reduce the number of suicides. There must be so much more to be done, and it must permeate from a national point of view in the regions. Madam President, I would like It was about mental health. I'm going to turn to the sexual and reproductive part of public health issues and talk a little bit about abortions. Sweden has one of the best abortion laws in the world. The support for women's right to decide over their own body and lives is very strongly founded on the Swedish people. I think that's good. Madam President, I would like Those who question our abortion legislation often do so by spreading myths about what it looks like today. We have seen it not only in Sweden. It is some kind of right-wing wave that passes across the world, in various countries in Europe, in Poland and in the United States. It's about the far right forces that got wind in the sails. Then it is women who are targeted. Often it may also sound like late abortions are very common. There are 1% late abortions in Sweden, I want to say when I have the opportunity here. Madam President, I would like I will leave that question and move on to how to limit HIV. It is a fantastic success in research when there are opportunities for people who are HIV infected to get medicine and survive. It wasn't like that. I've worked with HIV-infected addictions in 1987, and they're all dead. The very positive feeling you can get when we have the good medical development is not really reflected in the Disease Protection Act. There is also no evidence today that the information obligation actually has a positive effect when looking at the Anti-Contagion Act. Madam President, I would like Sweden has also been criticised internationally for its disease protection legislation. In October 2013, the Swedish Public Health Agency published a knowledge base, Infectiousness in treated HIV infection. This was done together with the reference group for antiviral therapy. They're extremely competent people. The base states that the risk of transmission is minimal. There is 1 case of 150,000 in treated HIV infection and where condoms are used throughout intercourse. However, people with HIV should continue to take their medicines, have ongoing dialogue with their treating doctor, use condoms in sexual contact, and so on. But changing the disease control law is an absolute necessity, according to the Left Party. We did not exercise, Madam President, but we have written a special opinion on it. Some things are rolling at an unimagined speed. It has taken a very long time with the HPV vaccine, but now it will soon be in place, we all have to tell the government, and get into the vaccination program for boys. It's been a long trip. But now it should be in place. We'll have to take the next fight when it comes.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1058	Madam President, I would like I amused to ask the question on my Facebook page: What is public health for you? I got some different answers. One was, dental care. The teeth are part of the body. I agree with that, too. One should have the opportunity to treat one's teeth cheaper in Sweden. I hope we get there one day so that people don't have to live without teeth if they can't afford to go to the dentist. Someone said, "Pacific sitting." More people need to ride a bike. People with disabilities must be more involved in public health work. People with NPF, neuropsychiatric disabilities, should feel more involved. It should be easier to get in touch with the care. Diet, movement, physical and mental ill health. I would like to say that public health is the election manifesto of the Green Party. In fact, it is all policy areas. We can only look at the environmental and climate issue. On a burned-out planet, there's no place for us to go. We must have a radical environment and climate policy. That is not least what the Green Party stands for. If you have a mismanaged planet, we have an air that's not so good to breathe. We get a health that goes down. We must tackle environmental and climate problems. People are being forced to flee, and more people in the world are being starved. This is something we must do now. Public health also depends on how we build our cities. This is about access to housing. No one has to be homeless. People should not have to live in molded houses. But we don't build houses. We are building a society, as we say in the Green Party. Public health is well-being for all, access to well-being for all. I usually say that not a single person should be left out. You shall have the right to a good and dignified life wherever in life and wherever in the world you may be. Maybe you don't live in a developing country in starvation. You may live in Sweden and suffer from a disease. You may experience death in your family, unemployment, or something else that makes life a little more difficult. Then welfare must be there as a safety net for all of us. One important thing we have done is to look at welfare measures and how we can measure welfare. It was introduced last year in Sweden. We look at different indicators of how people are doing and what welfare looks like from different aspects. The next step is to introduce it into the bnp measure where we should not just look at growth. Everyone should of course have access to a healthy lifestyle and have access to close care. That is why it is so important that in the January agreement, the government parties together with the Liberals and the Centers, we have come to the conclusion that we have a cue billion to implement. It will be easier to get to health care faster. This applies to both specialist and other care. Then there's what everyone's been talking about here. It's the mental illness. I would say that something is somehow wrong in our society in Sweden. We're rushing back and forth. Sweden is a very strange society also because we live one and one very much. That's a lot of loneliness. A lot of people don't have anyone to talk to. We live in our small apartments separately. We must find meeting places, and not least for the elderly, about which Barbro Westerholm has spoken so well. Many people eat medicines to cope with the puzzle of life and because it is so difficult to get the time together. Just to make it, some antidepressants eat. Somewhere here we have to look at our society. Maybe we should look at working hours. Perhaps we should allow those who have heavy jobs to retire earlier because they cannot cope but still allow them to retain a pension that is viable. We need to start being a little more innovative in our way of looking at society so that everyone can have a place, even in a future where we cannot only look at growth. Growth must also be sustainable both for people and for our planet. Suicide and mental illness is something we have to work on very much. We notice that many get exhausted and that young people feel worse. Several have mentioned here that 1,500 people kill themselves every year in Sweden. There are several people a day. Here we must arrive at the zero vision that we decided a few years ago. You shouldn't have to have it so bad that you kill yourself. Therefore, it is so important that we invest extra money in efforts against mental illness, for a queue-free BUP and for a close access to mental health care also at the health centres eventually. This is such a large area that you can really talk about everything, but I have to stay there. In these words, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1072	Madam President, I would like I'll be brief. I would like to thank the President for drawing my attention to the fact that there was a discrepancy between the version I had and the final version of the report. Of course, I would like to support Amendment No 13 in paragraph 19.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1074	Madam President, I would like Tonight – for now it is the night we are debating the Environment and the Agriculture Committee's report No 12, Food Policy. We Moderates stand up for all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 5. Public procurement is an extremely important issue. Swedish farmers produce food under some of the world's most stringent environmental and animal welfare rules. That's good, and we'll keep on doing that. I also believe that Swedish farmers are proud to produce on these premises. When we here in the Swedish parliament and on other public levels make laws, rules and regulations on how Swedish farmers should produce food, however, it is one thing. But when we then, in another place in the public sector, procure food, the rules we have set up are no longer as important. We know that there are now good methods to procure food in order to be able to reward the good Swedish environmental and animal welfare laws. I take myself as a farmer when I'm home as an example. If I were to produce in such a bad way as a certain part of the food we procure is produced on, I could be reported to the police and prosecuted for this. But that food is obviously okay to give to our old and to our children in the schools. It's okay to buy food like that. Of course, we can say that things have improved. It certainly has been; we are buying better food today. Nevertheless, I would like to call on the government to put even greater pressure on this so that we make sure that we are even better at buying good food. We are not going to procure food from countries that, for example, do not even have animal welfare legislation, which exists. It makes me get into this whole food fraud thing. Some time ago we were horrified that meat had been procured for Swedish schools from animals that were partly sick at slaughter and partly self-dead. It is of course terrible that this food then ended up in our schools. We had a similar scandal a number of years ago that I think you remember: the horse meat scandal. Horse meat in itself is one thing; in many countries one chooses to eat only horses. But now these were Eastern horses — horses that were probably printed in all sorts of syringes during their lifetime. In addition, horse is an animal that we take trichinae samples of when they are slaughtered in Sweden, just as we do with wild boar and bear. I do not think these animals were Trichinella-tested in these Eastern states; it was about Romania and some other country. Then it suddenly became a matter of food safety that we eat. It was not then that we had been misled as to the type of animal we ate, but rather a matter of pure safety. Madam President, I would like Regrettably, there are gangs all over Europe who are making a lot of money today in engaging in food fraud. It has simply become big business. I believe that Sweden must become tougher in the EU with the issue coming up in the light of day. Here in Sweden we are good at this, but there are many countries in Europe that are not at all as good. Once again, I would like to make a contribution to the government: raise this issue higher on the EU agenda, because it needs to be pursued! Another issue in the report is the expiry date, the expiry date and all that on food. I imagine that today's people, especially young people, do not have as good control of the food. They don't know as well how long the food is fit as food as someone who's old in the game has. And now I'm not going to take myself as an example, because I haven't ended up there yet! In Sweden there is a culture where you can smell the food to feel whether it is good or not instead of reading on the date label and throwing the food straight into the garbage because the date has expired. I believe that this is an information that we need to bring to young people in particular today. Food waste is today perhaps one third of all the food we produce, and we cannot afford it in the future either from an environmental or climate point of view. We definitely need to get better here. Simplified sale of wild boar meat is very important. The wild boar tribes are still growing tremendously. The government came up a few weeks ago with some good suggestions on how to shoot more wild boars. It allows moving lighting, image amplifiers, night vision and other things. These are great things, but we really hope now that the Swedish Food Safety Agency's investigation into small-scale sale of wild boar meat will have a good ending. We need that because otherwise we will not be able to increase the shooting of wild boar to the extent that we have to do. We have 200 000 to 300 000 wild boars today, we think. We might as well have 350,000 wild boars. We'll shoot a bit over 100,000. If we are to succeed in getting the launch off, we must make it easier at all levels. The wild boar is also a very good food. It can be a good and important part of the food strategy, but then it must be easier to get it out to the consumer. In Germany, you work according to a model where you shoot somewhere between 500 000 and 600 000 wild boars every year that you can then sell directly to consumers, local traders or restaurants. It works very well in Germany. They have no cases of trichinosis, and that's what you're most concerned about with wild boars. There are other difficulties in taking care of a wild boar, bacteria and such, but the Trichinella are the most important. I think that if Germany can do this, we in Sweden must be able to do it. In fact, we have the EU's highest statistics on sent Trichinella samples in relation to how many wild boars we shoot, so we are in good shape now. That's why this has to be possible to get through. I was very happy to read this week that schools have started buying wild boar meat. Good, then we'll have a outlet for this meat! Great! We can reduce the damage to arable land. We get more satisfied farmers, as it can strengthen their profitability situation. And we get access to a good meat, quite simply. That is why, Madam President, I would like to conclude by saying that we hope that the Food Authority's investigation into the simplified sale of wild boar meat will land in something good. Then I just want to send that we're late on the ball here. We should have done this sooner. When the result comes in November, it is therefore important that we make a workshop out of it as soon as possible.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1090	Madam President, I would like Food often creates a strong commitment. Why is that? Food is one of the most central things in our lives. It's the fuel that drives us forward. It is the medium that keeps us healthy and allows the children to grow strong. It is a business sector that generates jobs, living rural areas, the environment and culture. It is the deep interest of many. We express identity with the help of food, both individual and common identity. The food is present in all stages of life and in almost all traditions. To invite, to be invited and to share food is an integral part of all cultures, probably in all times as there have been people. The role of politics is to ensure that all meanings and values of food, both direct and indirect, can be maintained at a time when modern man has alienated himself further from production than ever. This should happen without us as consumers not knowingly risk contributing to unethical behaviour, and it should be done in such a way that Sweden can benefit from all the positive effects of food production. Citizens should be able to know that food is safe. Today, municipalities are responsible for a large part of operational food control. However, it is not uncommon for municipalities to fail their mission, and control is not always risk-based. Food controls vary from country to country and resources are limited. The state should therefore take greater responsibility for effective and effective food control throughout Sweden. The County Administrative Boards and the Swedish Food Administration are already guiding and exercising some operational control, but Sweden should try to ensure that food control responsibilities are entirely transferred from the municipalities to the state by parts of or all of the legislation. This would result in food and animal welfare controls being carried out according to the same principles wherever they are carried out. In addition, we believe that the quality of the control is assured and that it increases the possibility of adapting the frequency of controls to the number and size of deviations that have occurred. This means that if a company, an industry or another association does well, they may receive fewer supervisory visits. And it is better to have a system that makes operators comply with the legislation than a system that only finds those who do not live up to it. Foreign animal husbandry often differs from Sweden in terms of, for example, the view of antibiotics, hormones, animal transport, animal husbandry and slaughter methods. It is therefore important to increase consumers' ability to make active choices when buying food. In the past, the Riksdag has announced that the government in the EU will pursue in all relevant contexts the issue of mandatory origin labelling of all meat products including composite products. The Swedish Democrats stress that all animal products should be labelled with origin at every stage of the production chain. This shall apply to meat products and composite products as well as to food in restaurants. We also think it should apply to dairy products. Labelling and other information are important for consumer power at all. Therefore, we also want the main ingredients to be labelled in restaurants and alcoholic beverages to have a list of ingredients. In addition to being a necessary source of food, the food is, as I said, also bearers of traditions, culture and experiences. Sweden has many traditional food products that are closely linked to our country, our regions, our environment and our cultural history and that deserve to be highlighted. However, there are currently no national regulations to protect or pay attention to Swedish food. Against this background, we believe that a national regulatory framework for the labelling of culturally-historically valuable Swedish food products needs to be developed. We believe that this would facilitate the preservation of that part of our cultural heritage and have positive effects on both the tourism industry and rural development. A few hours ago I took note of a survey that showed that many tourists choose Sweden as a destination because they want to experience our Swedish culture. It is good to hear, when many Swedish politicians do not value Swedish culture, if they even acknowledge its existence. Many municipalities and county councils are currently buying food that is illegal to produce in Sweden according to current environmental and animal welfare legislation. The Swedish Democrats believe that all food purchased in public should be produced in accordance with current Swedish environmental and animal welfare legislation whenever possible. The purchasing rules established by the public sector will benefit locally produced food. The demand for organically labelled food in public kitchens that many municipalities have set up in many places exceeds the organic production available in the local area. The objective of organic production thus leads to imports. It's an effect of an unreflected numerical target. Sweden has in several respects higher minimum requirements for conventional food production than current legislation in the EU, and production is more environmentally friendly with several different measurements measured. Our public sector should not put Swedish and local production at a disadvantage. For ethical reasons in particular, imports of animal products from undecided slaughter should also be prohibited. Today, many smaller communities are drained of public service through abandoned schools, shops and supermarkets. Such closure leads to relocation. The possibility of additional community support for rural traders outside the municipalities' centres should be explored, for the many service services that traders need to have in order to survive and for the countryside to survive. In order for more small-scale slaughterhouses to be established, the rules surrounding these need to be further simplified. This is important in order to allow for an increased supply of locally produced food and to improve conditions for animals and keepers. Small-scale slaughterhouses provide shorter animal transport and local jobs. Today we can see a growing interest in farm shops in the countryside, where more people want to sell locally grown and self-produced goods. This is important both for the local economy and for the rural labour market, but also for people's ability to do what they want. Today's regulations often make the production and sale of food unnecessarily complicated. Here, the government should work towards simpler rules for farm sales of food without compromising food safety. In order to promote the export of Swedish food, priority should be given to work on country and plant approvals. Small and medium-sized food businesses should be supported in the form of skills development in order to become better at exporting Swedish food. Last but not least, there is the issue of wild game food. From an animal welfare and environmental perspective, game meat is very good food. We believe that it has the potential to reach more consumers if we manage to change attitudes towards hunting and game meat. You can do that with knowledge. The government should start work on the dissemination of knowledge about hunting and game meat. However, the biggest challenge for game operators is perhaps the complex regulatory framework for dealing with game products. The rules must be simplified in order to bring game meat into the trade, without compromising food safety. We suggest, among other things, that hunters should be allowed to sell smaller quantities of wild boar meat directly to consumers, with certificates that the meat has been tested for Trichinella. As has already been said here in the speaker's chair, wild boars are a huge problem because of their large number. The launch must increase drastically. If we can facilitate the market for meat, we can make the problem smaller and the resource larger. I would like to conclude by saying, of course, that I support all the reservations expressed by the Swedish democrats, but for the time to come, I only ask for the approval of reservation No 4.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1111	Madam President, I would like The drought that hit Sweden last year has caused Swedish agriculture in many places to be in crisis. When you meet individual farmers with red-edged eyes, it is not least reminiscent of the pig crisis just over ten years ago when many had an incredibly tough financial situation. It is those farmers who are going to produce what we are talking about today, that is, what is supposed to be the foundation of the food industry, public kitchens and shops and then end up on our tables. They are the precondition for debating this motion report on food today. This summer the situation was really acute in many different ways. However, the situation remains critical for many, and today there is a great deal of concern about how things are going to go this year. The possible feed reserves that existed last year are now in many places gone. They are exhausted, which is why we do not really know what will happen when it comes to animal feed, and perhaps also when it comes to water supply, which has been a problem in many places. We in the Center Party have done as much as we can to propose emergency aid and various measures, and now we have done so in our amending budget together with the government parties. The food strategy was adopted in Parliament last year, and then the government made its own action plan to reach the targets by 2030. From the point of view of the Center Party, we think that this action plan is too thin, and that is why we have made nearly 90 own proposals to strengthen the whole food chain. To take advantage of Sweden's full potential as a food country, we need to focus on creating an innovative, sustainable and profitable food chain. All companies in the whole chain, from agriculture to tourism, must have competitive conditions. Without strong and viable food businesses, the vision of increased food production can never be achieved. Madam President, I would like In the context of the adoption of the Food Strategy, the Environment and Agriculture Committee has committed itself to making a number of announcements. It has been about cutting red tape and processing times and having good business conditions. It has been a promotion mission to our various authorities such as the Swedish Food Safety Agency, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Agriculture Agency, the Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate and the Swedish Tax Agency – yes, there are many different authorities on which our agricultural companies and food producing companies are extremely dependent. Another issue is discussed in some sports here today, and it is about how to simplify the sale of game meat. There is also an announcement. It should also be easier for consumers to make sustainable and informed choices. The fifth announcement is that Swedish food production should be based on consumer demand and not on policy setting different goals for different forms of production. Madam President, I would like We now face a challenging year in many ways. We will choose which Members of the European Parliament will gain our confidence over the next five years. It is important to be able to put policy into practice in Brussels. One of the most important issues for the future is our climate. It is sometimes called a question of fate, and that is true. The effects of climate change affect all mankind – all people around our globe. Drought, floods and hunger mean that people have to leave their homes. The climate can be saved, and it is not too late. But it requires a bold and offensive climate policy. The climate cannot be saved by stopping growth and looking back. It is not by rejecting all the good that people's ingenuity and growth have given us that we are reducing emissions. On the contrary, it is the green growth that we can create and the innovation capacity of the human being, which is part of the basis of coping with climate change. We must be a driving force in international work, not least within the European Union. Madam President, I would like The availability of clean drinking water has long been a matter of course in Sweden. When I was a child, vacation in Norway was enough to advise me not to drink the water in the tap to get sick in the stomach. Today there are many countries we can visit without having to brush our teeth with water from a bottle. But even now it is dry in much of our country. It was actually a little nice to get to put on the green rain jacket today and feel that it might still be a weather change so that we get the rain that our soils long for so much and that we as users in different ways so well need. In recent years, many agricultural companies and large parts of our country have been affected by water scarcity in summer. The two previous summers have been dry at home in Skaraborg, and now low groundwater levels are reported. The wells of many have dried up, and water has been drilled again. The water supply has not been sufficient either for animals or for the irrigation of fields. Access to clean drinking water is, of course, influenced by many different factors, such as over-exploitation, under-investment in water infrastructure, changes in flows and precipitation in the wake of climate change. But in Sweden we actually have inefficient use of our drinking water by, for example, flushing our toilets with drinkable water. In the future we may have other solutions to reduce water consumption, but until then we need consumers to be alerted to individual water use in order to also have an opportunity to influence it. To ensure clean water in the tap, power is needed to protect access to clean water. With climate change and effects such as floods, the risk of landslides and the spread of bacteria and pollutants increases. Water is a municipal responsibility and should continue to be so, but the state needs to do a lot to support the municipalities in their work. All municipalities that have not already made a drinking water supply plan where risks and threats are both analysed and managed should be helped with this. And since access to water does not follow municipal boundaries, municipal planning should be coordinated regionally. The state should support both preparedness for emergency situations and methods for local and regional water plans. The national responsibility for water is now fragmented across several authorities and needs to be coordinated. Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all our reservations, both those relating to public procurement and the possibility of also purchasing locally produced products in a much more efficient way than today, as well as those relating to the revision of the environmental code for new aquaculture activities where it can be seen that it is not so difficult to get renewed permits for certain activities but that these are extremely long permit processes for the innovative and the new. It is also about access to clean drinking water. However, for time winning, I only apply for reservation No 28.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1127	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all our reservations, but for time winning, I am in favour of reservation 25. Today we are debating food policy. Almost exactly two years ago, I also stood here, and we discussed the food strategy. Then we decided that we should have the food strategy. All parties agreed in principle that it is important to stop phasing out agriculture and instead develop it. Isn't it good to say develop rather than phase out? The points we highlighted specifically were that profitability would increase, competitiveness would be strengthened and food self-sufficiency would have to increase. That is something that is fundamentally wrong when farmers close their farms because their profitability is too poor. We have a fantastic country to produce food in. Yet every week between four and five dairy farmers in Sweden close down their dairy business. All over Europe milk production is increasing, except in one country – just that – in Sweden. Here it is decreasing. Our farmers must not compete on the same terms as farmers in the EU. For example, we have very high diesel tax and a huge regulatory burden. The Food Strategy states that rules and laws should be simplified. It's extremely important. But what does that mean? For example, a dairy farmer who at the same time has 900 rules to deal with. When will the farmer have time to be a farmer? What has happened in two years? It is interesting and exciting, Madam President. If we ask the peasants about the strategy, they shake their heads and say that they notice absolutely nothing. They don't notice anything at farm level. That's not good enough, my friends. Our self-sufficiency in food is below 50%. Every other bite of the food we eat does not come from Sweden. It's extremely serious. So we cannot support our own people in a crisis or a war situation. Our neighbour country to the east, Finland, is a shining example of an EU country that has a completely different level of preparedness. For 12 months, they manage to feed their inhabitants with food. In Sweden we come up for 12 days at best. Is it better now, after we have adopted the food strategy? No, I'm afraid not. Food supply continues to decline. That's not good enough, my friends. One issue that we Christian Democrats want to highlight is public procurement. There's something wrong there. We as a country have among the toughest animal welfare laws in the world, but when municipalities and regions buy in food, it can come from virtually any country and have been produced in a way that our own laws prohibit. It's a terrible double standard. There has to be a change. In this area too, Finland is a shining example. There the government decided that the same requirements imposed on the country's farmers should be imposed on the procurement of foreign food. Some municipalities in Sweden that I would like to highlight as good examples are located in Östergötland – you can imagine. It is Vadstena, Ydre and my municipality of residence Ödeshög. These municipalities set requirements for procurement. In Ödeshög, for example, 99% of meat served in school, childcare and care for the elderly comes from Sweden. Madam President, I would like Wild boars destroy agriculture at a cost of SEK 1.5 billion. The warm winters and a good supply of food cause the wild boar tribes to increase at rocket speed. Many of us in this House have no doubt now seen the enormous damage that wild boars do to both fields and pastures. In addition to that, we have 3,000 traffic accidents and many destroyed gardens. There must simply be more wild boars shot in Sweden. Last year 112,000 wild boars were shot. It's too few. Twice as many people would have to be shot in order to get some control over the tribe. A battery of measures is needed here. One proposal is simplification of the sale of wild boar meat in Sweden. It works in Germany. There you shoot about 600 000 wild boars a year. The hunters sell the meat to shops and restaurants after they have received training and after the meat has been trichinated. If the EU country of Germany can do so, then surely Sweden should also be able to do so, Madam President.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1143	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in its entirety. Under the leadership of the Social Democrats, a long-term food strategy for increased Swedish food production was developed in broad collaboration. We missed this earlier. Sweden now has one of these, the objectives of which are shared by all parties. The main objective of the strategy is to create a competitive and profitable food chain that contributes to increased employment and growth and where the whole chain is included, from primary production to consumer. Part of the continued efforts to increase production, competitiveness and profitability is the promotion of increased exports. The Government has made several efforts to develop and strengthen Swedish food exports and promote Swedish food. Through work on the Food Strategy Action Plan from 2020 onwards, we can strengthen Swedish food production, all the way from soil and the sea to the table. A key part of the implementation is that policies, authorities, academia and industry hook arms and jointly take on the opportunities available to achieve the objectives set out in the strategy. It will work in everything from primary production to having an export where we reach out with our Swedish products in new markets. Swedish food production is crucial for jobs and growth in rural areas. That is why in January the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party have agreed on a strong peasant package. It will be implemented to strengthen the liquidity and competitiveness of Swedish agriculture and food production. But for Swedish farmers to be able to compete, a strong society is needed. Cheating and mislabelling of food should be suppressed. We want high demands on the food we give our children in school and the elderly in care for the elderly. It should be easy for us consumers to be active and choose the right way. Information on food content, nutritional value, environmental impact and origin must be improved and expanded. Regional food strategies have also been developed around the country at local level. These are strategies that, based on their own regional circumstances and needs, should be able to contribute to a competitive food chain. Many local food producers in our beautiful countryside also link their production with the tourism industry. It is in everything from primary production to the processing industries in our elongated country that concrete work is being done so that the objectives of the national food strategy can be achieved. Madam President, I would like In April, I had the privilege of meeting three young farmers at home, in Stöde in Västernorrland County. They showed and told about their farms with animals and plantations. Three young farmers, together with their families, have invested and are now investing in a farmer's life in Norrland. If anything, it shows that we are on the right track, that the green industries are a future industry and that the whole country can grow. Together we talked about many important issues. One issue they raised was the origin marking of meat. Young farmers are and should be proud of the food they produce. It is meat and milk that comes from animals that have had a very good life in the northern soil. The food they produce is of high quality. They have good animal husbandry and low antibiotic use, just as it should be and most often is when it comes to Swedish food. Today, our Swedish consumers have a great interest in food and where it comes from. For a long time now, as a consumer, I can easily see where the meat I buy in the store comes from. But if I go to a restaurant, it's like buying the pig in the bag. We want it to be as easy to choose at the restaurant as at the store. Good and clear information is a prerequisite for me as a consumer to be able to make conscious and sustainable choices. In order to strengthen and increase the competitiveness of Swedish agriculture, this is included in the January agreement. A commission was given to the Swedish Food Administration already under the previous Social Democratic Government, and we look forward to a bill next spring so that we can introduce the origin marking of meat and fish in restaurants and in large kitchens. We want Swedish food production to increase. It provides jobs in rural areas while strengthening sustainable development and producing good quality food with high environmental and animal welfare requirements. In order to cope with the food supply of the future for a growing population and to be able to do so within the planetary borders, we also need to shift up our work to reduce food waste. Globally, about a third of all food produced is thrown away. It's a huge waste of resources. In fact, one of the greatest environmental efforts we can make is to make better use of the existing resources that we have. Food waste occurs in the different stages of the food chain – at growers, suppliers, shops, restaurants and large kitchens as well as in our own homes. Much of the waste occurs because the different links in the chain simply do not communicate enough and do not have common goals. However, in line with the food strategy, there is now an action plan in place to reduce food waste. The measures concern, inter alia, date labelling, the cooling chain and shelf life. Another resource that has been mentioned by many here and which we must make better use of is the wildness that exists in our forests. Wild boars often cause major problems for farmers, but they could also be an asset rather than just a problem. If it becomes easier for our hunters to sell their game meat, hunting will also become more attractive. Then the tribe and the problems of our farmers are reduced. The government's goal is that we should have a safe, well-functioning and efficient handling of wild boar meat. We look forward to this autumn when the Swedish Food Safety Agency will make proposals on how large quantities of wild boar meat can reach the market without reducing food safety. Madam President, I would like We have begun the journey to increase self-sufficiency. Food production shall be provided with the means to increase throughout the country, while achieving relevant national environmental objectives and the global sustainable development objectives. In the future, we see innovative and sustainable food production that is digital, flexible, resource efficient and environmentally friendly. On the basis of the climate change that agriculture has been affected by in recent years, we must expect to face similar crises in the future. It is therefore important that we continue our work to strengthen our Swedish agriculture in the long term. Climate change should not be a heavy yoke for our farmers and the rest of the food chain to carry without an opportunity. It will also be an opportunity for us consumers to be able to put Swedish vegetables and locally produced meat on the grill this summer.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1160	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Social Democrats talk this much about rural areas, about food production and about small businesses. That's great. It certainly hasn't always sounded like that. Madam President, I would like The picture that Malin Larsson paints here is great. This is a good picture of Swedish food production. It's truth, and I like it. The fact then remains that many of the things that are being messed up in the speech will probably lead to a little bit of cost and a little more regulatory hassle. As a result, it again tempts profitability. I'm thinking more concretely now. As previous speakers have said here, it is two years since the food strategy came. I don't think the farmers have experienced it. They don't think it affects them very much. At the end of the day, it comes down to whether the individual farmer should be able to increase his production or increase his profitability. In my world, an entrepreneur who wants to increase profitability wants to reduce regulatory burdens, reduce administrative burdens, reduce special taxes, long-term rules and perhaps strengthen ownership rights. How do the Social Democrats envisage this being fulfilled? How are we going to achieve the objectives of the food strategy if we do not do it better for the individual farmer? We can paint the visions that we will increase the degree of self-sufficiency and the beautiful image of the Swedish farmer. But concrete measures must be taken for the entrepreneur. How will he live?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1165	Madam President, I would like I thank John Widegren for the questions. As far as regulatory problems and concrete measures are concerned, my view is that there is a tremendous appreciation of the work that the Social Democratic Government began last parliamentary term, and a common food strategy was achieved. It is much appreciated. Two years isn't a really long time. But we're already seeing results out there. The three young farmers I met on two different farms dare to bet now. They see a future in this industry thanks to the fact that there is now support and opportunities, even in Norrland where cultivation opportunities are not as good. I therefore take a very positive view of the future. I can already see that there have been good changes. Then there needs to be more. We fully agree on this, just as we agree on quite a lot in our speeches. Our rural minister, Jennie Nilsson, has also said that the new action plan will be sharp and as accurate as possible. She also highlights the cooperation. That is the basis, that is, together – from politics, industry and industry – we are helping each other. It requires dialogue and that we listen to each other and try to help each other in order to get as good proposals as possible.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1168	Madam President, I would like I thank Malin Larsson for his answer. It is clear that we need to have an overall picture and cooperation between industries, politics and the public sector – all of it – in order to be able to move forward with the food strategy. Many farmers now dare to invest, among other things, because we say that we have adopted a food strategy, and many have hopes that it will be better. Interest rates are still very low, and it is possible to borrow money for your business. However, when interest rates start to rise in the next few years, profitability will crumble, and it will become tougher. Then it is extremely important that this food strategy is underway, that it really bears fruit and that it does not just become a paper that we turn into politics and say: now we have adopted a strategy. Now we increase our supply and profitability. We are once again landing in the fact that it is the individual farmer who must have good profitability. Otherwise, he will not continue to do this. He gets good profitability thanks to political rules but also thanks to a demand from consumers who need to be enlightened, and Swedish consumers are becoming more and more enlightened. In addition, he gains profitability by gaining the right skills. There we see that there will be a major problem in the coming years. Several thousand people are missing for Swedish food production and Swedish agriculture. Madam President, I would like I would like to put the same question once again to Malin Larsson: will these measures and the action plan that is being drawn up in connection with the food strategy be able to lead to increased food production?
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1173	Madam President, I would like I thank John Widegren once again. I thought I answered a little bit. But I can bounce back to John Widegren. You were in power before us and you were in government. But then no food strategy was developed that could be decided upon. The Social Democratic-led government actually talked not only but also acted. We will continue to do so, I promise you. Just as you did, it is important that we consumers buy Swedish food but also that we manage to export more of our fantastic products that farmers and food companies produce here in Sweden.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1175	Madam President, I would like We seem to have a rather broad consensus on these issues within the group. I think that has to do with a long and good tradition. The liberal approach to food policy can most easily be summed up as follows: You should feel safe with the food you eat, and you should be able to trust that the labels and controls are correct. The food fraud is to be combated. A sustainable cycle is needed where nutrients go from soil to table and then back to soil. GMOs or biotechnology can contribute to better harvests and nutritional content. I would have been able to finish my speech there, Madam President, but I will continue anyway. What we eat plays a major role in how we feel, and how our food and food are produced plays a major role in the climate and the environment. More and more of us realize this and now choose active food that is both more healthy and has less climate impact. If we are to be able to make wise choices as consumers, we need to be able to rely on content declarations and labels, and that is why the Liberals have been pushing for a long time to allow food to be traced all the way – even in restaurants. I am pleased that one of the points in the January agreement between the Government, the Center Party and the Liberals is that the origin marking of meat and fish in restaurants should be introduced so that in Sweden too, you can soon find out what you eat when you go out to eat. However, even though labelling and choice are important, it is appropriate to point out that sometimes one should ask oneself whether it is realistic and reasonable that the chicken in the freezer counter costs 42 SEK kilos. Perhaps we should make sure that the food is allowed to cost a little more and that the farmer gets a little more in return. As the most pro-European party, we want the European Veterinary Authority to develop into an FBI of food and labelling that makes frequent checks on food safety and food information throughout the EU. In this way, perhaps the latest meat disaster, where schoolchildren were served Polish meat with boils, could have been avoided. The EU has a strong and important role to play here. Market-driven labelling and certification of goods are good, and we Liberals are open to introducing a mandatory climate label for certain meats, for example. We also like to see more restaurants using climate labelling. It should be easy to choose the right consumer. Local inspection also has an important role to play in food quality, but unfortunately the skills or resources are not always to be filled throughout the country and in all the municipalities of the country. We therefore welcome the fact that the Swedish Food Safety Agency is working with competence-enhancing measures in food control and that there is also a focus on equivalence and efficient use of resources and expertise. The proposal on municipal co-operation in food control and post-debitation currently being prepared is a few steps in the right direction for an effective, efficient and equivalent system. It is also very important for the confidence of food producers in the control and the fees associated with it. Madam President, I would like Swedish food is climate-smart and produced with good animal care and environmental considerations. It is a competitive advantage that must be safeguarded, and as we arrived at in last week's debate on animal welfare, good animal protection leads to less antibiotics being used. This is important both for animals and for consumers and for public health. Liberals pushed for a Swedish food strategy, and now the strategy exists. However, we remain critical of the government's government's production targets, which determine how much of the agricultural land should be organic. It breathes plan economy, and towards plan economy liberals are allergic; we would rather see a market economy there. Some point to the need to promote organic farming for health, the environment and the climate. Others feel that conventional agriculture is more efficient and climate-smarter in producing a lot of food, which is needed to feed the earth's population. Liberals like to see organic food in the shop and on our tables, but we want consumers to control demand – not politically set targets. Real climate smart is game meat, Madam President. In connection with the processing of the food strategy, Parliament has issued an announcement to the Government that the possibility of marketing Swedish game meat must be improved. We need safe and efficient handling of, for example, wild boar meat and are therefore looking forward to the Food and Agriculture Authority's forthcoming analysis and proposals for simplified procedures in order for consumers to actually buy wild boar meat on the market. However, one of the easiest ways to reduce emissions and save the climate is to eat more of what we produce and buy instead of throwing it away. Research and development as well as a general training effort are needed here, I would say. New digital date labels on packaging are currently being tested, and the industry has initiated its own complementary measures with labels that can alert consumers to the fact that food can be consumed even after the best-case date. Madam President, I would like It is called a food service for good reasons, and Sweden is in good shape. However, there is still work to be done to make sure that we feel completely safe and that we, as consumers, can make informed choices. I think this report will take us a bit along the way. I support the proposal in the report.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1188	Madam President, I would like More and more people are familiar with REKO, which represents substantial consumption. The word is also fair, nice and fair. At the REKO ring in Uppsala tonight, which I missed, 36 producers delivered locally produced food to consumers who had ordered online. The great interest in local food, food crafts and organic production is increasing enormously. The meeting between consumers and producers is extremely valuable. Many people are now talking about relationship food – the really good food. At the REKO-ring, all stores are made up in advance, which means that there are no obstacles for small start-ups to be involved in selling their products. It's extremely important. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has been given the task of facilitating the establishment of REKO rings in Sweden, and I would like to mention that a new REKO ring was started in Enköping in Uppsala County this week. Congratulations on that, Enköping! Food policy, as I would like to call it, is extra hot now that there are soon European elections. I very much hope that food and agricultural policy will receive the great attention they deserve in the run-up to the European elections. Two food issues are particularly important. Firstly, the EU must develop a common strategy, with binding requirements, for reducing food waste across the EU. Food waste is a huge waste – one third of the food produced is wasted, which is of course problematic not only because we are wasting economic resources but, above all, because it is a waste of the climate. Secondly – and this is particularly important – the misuse of antibiotics in animal husbandry in the EU must stop. We in the Green Party believe that the Member States of the European Union must be given the right to impose antibiotics tax on meat so that meat produced with large amounts of antibiotics can be penalised from the market. I recently read a future report from Ica called Clips, Stress and Bacteria. It's a great title for a future report. It describes antibiotic resistance as one of the three or four most serious threats to global public health. Björn Olsen, Professor of Infectious Diseases at the Department of Medical Sciences at Uppsala University, says in the report that he has never before been able to imagine the level of resistance that exists already in 2019. In the future, we in Sweden will die of pneumonia. We'll have to count on that. ... Today, more people die globally because of antibiotic-resistant bacteria than malaria and HIV together, he says. Resistance can't be stopped, but it can be resisted forcefully. According to the report, the most effective measures are: Sweden usually ranks top three in the world when it comes to the least antibiotic use in agriculture, which is fantastically positive. What is even more positive is that Swedish agriculture, which is certified as a requirement, has even more restrictive rules for the use of antibiotics than conventional Swedish agriculture. It is likely that certified agriculture is the most regulated in the world in terms of antibiotics. This is extremely positive. When we talk about consumption, there is every reason to look at public procurement. The Green Party believes that animal welfare requirements should be set in public procurement, and there is no obstacle to imposing requirements on compliance with Swedish animal welfare law. As a municipal politician, I already did so in 2010 in Uppsala Municipality, where we made binding decisions and where 100 per cent of the meat is of Swedish origin. It is not astounding that the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats in their joint reservation, to which they have called for approval here, advocate that Swedish animal welfare law should be the basis for public procurement. What is strange is that they do not know that there is no obstacle to it today. The government already initiated an obligatory in 2018 and continues to work for it. I suppose we have a great deal of agreement on this in this House. What is really strange about KD and SD and their reservation No. 4 is that it is only one week since they voted for an announcement here in Parliament to abolish testing of animal houses – the most important rule according to veterinarians and animal welfare experts probably for Swedish agriculture to be able to keep healthy animals and keep antibiotic use at a low level. If we are to combat antibiotic resistance, I would like to add a point to the list in the ICA report: Keep the testing of animal stalls! Strengthen the Animal Welfare Act! What organic farming can do today can be learned from conventional farming. The FAO Food and Agriculture Organisation has produced a new report showing that today's way of growing food is not sustainable for either health or the environment. Business as usual does not work. The report is called The future of food and agriculture – Alternative roads to 2050. It shows, among other things, that organic farming is important when the transition to a more sustainable food and agricultural system needs to be made. According to the report, organic farming is not dependent on fertilizers. There has been a debate in the media over the winter about climate and food that I think has been strange. Organically produced as inferior. In any case, I would like to point out that Krav and Kravmarkning really are at the forefront. Requirements have added a number of climate targets to the Requirements Rules. Eco-farmers and certified companies use renewable electricity even if not the entire company is Kravlabelled. M wool soils are not allowed to be grown on in the Requirements Farm. F odret is grown mainly on its own farm, and therefore the transports are minimal. There are requirements for a fertilisation plan to conserve plant nutrients, and no use of commercial fertilisers or chemical pesticides is permitted. The fuel consumption is also limited at K ravmarked fishing. It is important to state that it is of course consumers who control the demand for organic food as well. But demand has been strong, and agriculture has not been able to respond to it. That is why the objectives are needed. I would also like to mention a positive innovation from the January agreement that u rsprungsmarkning will be introduced in restaurants. Madam President, I would like One issue that I think has been obscured in the debate is that food for our elderly must be given higher priority. The Swedish Food Safety Agency's general advice on elderly care is actually very good. P roblemet is that there are too few municipalities and companies in elderly care that follow them. It is about g od, freshly cooked food that increases appetite and reduces the risk of malnutrition and about pleasant meal environment, association and s maker that stimulates memory. Much can be done better. Madam President, I would like Water is our most important food. We shall have a debate on that in a moment, so I will conclude here!
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1209	Madam President, I would like Maria Gardfjell went on hard for organic farming and Kravsproduktion in her speech and actually smeared conventional production a lot, I would say. I find it very strange. It highlights certain research that indicates that organic is better, but I would say that most of the research that comes today says that organic production is not better. Probably we need to find some kind of golden middle ground for the future. I am not saying that the use of fertilizers and pesticides is the best thing, but we produce more food that way. When the Swedish Food Safety Agency carries out its controls on plant protection residues, no Swedish-produced food can be found above the limit values, so the plant protection products do not seem to me to be a problem. The production of fertilizers is becoming more and more climate-friendly, which is also very important. After all, we have increased our crops tremendously since we introduced fertilizers. As far as animal welfare and animal health are concerned, conventional animals are at least as healthy as organic animals. We do not use any more antibiotics in conventional production. Swedish farmers long ago decided that we in Sweden would adapt our systems to the animals, while the rest of Europe still tries to adapt the animals to the systems. This means that we have a head start, but now Europe is catching up. They look at the Swedish model. I would rather say that we are talking about both conventional and organic production, and we are going to choose the Swedish one. Then we've done a lot.
i-EPeYZwo1UALxentfkKQtUh	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren, for the question! I am certainly not someone who says that all agriculture overnight would have to be organic. I would like to stress very strongly that there are good examples in both organic and conventional agriculture. But what is important to remember, given the questions asked by John Widegren, is that if you look at the overall research that exists where these production systems are compared, very little seems to indicate that ecologically would be worse from the environmental and climate point of view. There's hardly anything. The FAO report to which I referred is very worth reading, because it really shows that business as usual – that is, conventional agriculture as it is developed today – is not a way forward. It really needs to change, both to meet climate goals and to cope with the survival and food resources of the world. When we talk about agriculture having to produce a sufficient amount of food, I think it is a very important issue to raise. It is often pointed out that in conventional agriculture more per unit area is produced. But it is also the case that we need to use the agricultural land we have in Sweden – a lot is growing again – so it may not be per unit area that is the best measure of production in Sweden and on Swedish products. All Swedish agriculture produces much less per unit area than it produces in Germany, the Netherlands or France, so with that argument you would not want any Swedish agriculture at all. I can't do that.
i-WcqwES8eWPV933xkgeem6Z	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer, Maria Gardfjell! Swedish farmers basically deliver the world's highest harvests, along with the countries listed here, so we are good at growing. But it's on the good cultivation soils. Of 2 1⁄2 million hek takes arable land in Sweden, 1 million hectares are virtually impossible to produce grain on. On these land we can produce grass, which can serve as animal feed or possibly be used for biogas production. I don't think we can just continue with business as usual either. We will need to find new ways, start using biofuels and reduce the use of plant protection products, of course, and conventional growers are doing so today. Many people today use row picks where they used to spray. So you already find golden middle roads. This is a figure that I have received from the LRF, so you must bring a pinch of salt, but for the next 40 years we will produce as much food as we have produced for the last 8 000 years, and that is quite a lot. And we know that earth's arable land decreases by 5 to 6 million hectares each year. We are down to less than 0.2 hectares per human being on earth, which we will still manage to provide food. These are important issues to keep production going. That is why I think it is very important not just to think about organic production rather than conventional production. If anyone wants to grow organically, let it be so and let the market choose. But the golden middle road is probably the one we're going to find. That is why we must not paint ourselves purely ecologically.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1224	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that, for the sake of climate change, we need to adapt Swedish agriculture to climate change. The most important thing is to have an agriculture that is independent of fossil fuel. It is also included in the January agreement. It is important that we increase the profitability of Swedish farms. It is important that we adapt production to consumer demand. Much more vegetable cultivation is needed in Sweden. Much more plant-based cultivation is needed overall. But more organic farming is also needed, because the demand for organic food is very high. There are also major benefits to organic farming for biodiversity and to reduce the spread of pesticides to water and watercourses. This is where we are about to debate the water issue. Madam President, I would like To conclude, however, with regard to what John Widegren has said, I must point out that, if Sweden is to continue to be an example in terms of animal welfare and animal health, we cannot abolish the testing of animal housing. This would mean the greatest risk of increased antibiotic use in Swedish agriculture in the future. This is what the vets say, as the animal welfare experts say, and in fact the LRF said the other day, so I think you have been given back homework on the announcement that was made in Parliament last week.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1227	Madam President, I would like We Moderates are behind all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 6. This debate will be about water and, above all, the importance of caring for our water. Water, as we have heard before, is our most important food. We fully agree with that. What do we do? Well, we expect an abundant flow as soon as we turn the crane, and we often do. On average, each Swedish consumes 160 litres of water per day, of which 10 litres are expected to go to cooking. We also expect that we will be able to drink the water directly from the tap without getting sick, at the same time as it will taste good. However, good drinking water is also a prerequisite for the functioning of the food industry, not least for breweries where the quality of water can also play a major role in the taste. How do we ensure that drinking water meets all these expectations? In particular, by ensuring that waterworks can meet high standards of purification. Today, however, there is increasing concern that pharmaceutical substances and microplastics can go all the way into the kitchen. And they do, even if it is in extremely low doses. But there is a problem. It is therefore extremely important that treatment plants, which were originally not built to do this, should be equipped with new treatment steps. The Alliance parties and the Moderates have pushed the issue of developing several methods for advanced drug treatment and are now pleased that all parties in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture support this. At the same time, we believe that more needs to be done to prevent medicines, flame retardants and nutrients from getting into the raw water at all. A call for this was made to the government already last year, but the government chose not to listen. This year's report repeats the demand and we expect it to now lead to a workshop, because we need it. Madam President, I would like What surprises me is the government's lack of responsibility for the vital issue of drinking water. As early as 2013, the Alliance Government set up an investigation, the Drinking Water Investigation, which three years later left its report A safe drinking water supply that has not yet reached Parliament's table. After three years, there was indeed a prepared proposal, but it went hard on the pump at Lagrådet. I can say in brackets that there are a number of government proposals that have gone that way, according to a recent report by the KU. This is, of course, not a good thing, but in any case Parliament has not yet been able to take a position on the vital issue of safe drinking water supply. In addition, there is information that the government has decided not to even proceed with the bill, and this in a situation where the levels in the groundwater reservoirs have not been so low since the 1970s and the risk of unwanted substances in the water has never been greater. It is irresponsible and incomprehensible, not least in view of the effects that climate change is expected to have in terms of, for example, drought or increased precipitation, warmer water and poorer raw water. Another important issue whose priority is also visible in the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats is the importance of increased international work. On this issue too, the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture has agreed to call on the government to do more, including by increasing the work of the two international associations Helcom and OSPAR, which also play an important role in coordinating the implementation of the EU's marine environment directives. There are many who believe that Helcom and Ospar have given a leverage effect to get a workshop in this important work and to improve the situation in the seas off the Swedish coast. As early as 2007, the EU Member States' Environment Ministers and the European Commission decided to phase out a joint action plan, known as the BSAP, the Baltic Sea Action Plan, for the Baltic Sea, the Sound and the Kattegat. The goal of the plan is to achieve good ecological status by 2021. Unfortunately, however, a report presented two years ago showed that almost 95% of the Baltic Sea region still suffers from eutrophication. It is mainly countries like Poland that are causing major problems. The report also believes that increased levels of hazardous substances are a major problem. This is absolutely ominous. It is therefore important that the government continues to drive the development of a better marine environment in the Baltic Sea within the framework of Helcom. Similarly, work within OSPAR to protect the environment in the North-East Atlantic must be stepped up. In brackets, the decisions taken within OSPAR are legally binding – I did not know that myself – and must be implemented in Swedish legislation. Sweden has 16 environmental quality objectives. Three of them are about water. There has recently been an in-depth evaluation of these environmental quality objectives, and according to the Marine and Water Agency, HaV, we will not reach the target in any of these three areas by 2020. The Authority does say that there are positive trends, but believes that the current rate of action is not sufficient. It is further argued that the quality of the areas which have nevertheless been protected is not sufficient and that the follow-up is inadequate. This is why they are advocating for increased long-termness and increased international collaboration. That is why, once again, the appeal made by the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture to the Government is so important that we have to have greater pressure in this area. Madam President, I would like The Moderates want to invest more in research into the sea, because we are very concerned about the increase in carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. When carbon dioxide hits seawater, carbonic acid is formed. Then the oceans become more acidic, with the result that coral reefs and other marine organisms are being beaten up and biodiversity is being affected. That is why it is important to address research in this area, and we want that to be our priority. Madam President, I would like Finally, a few words about individual sewers. Today, municipalities can forcely connect individual property owners to municipal water and sewage, even though they already have a fully operational solution. Of course, individual sewers must meet the current environmental, health and infection protection requirements, but that forcibly connecting individuals with well-functioning sewers is not reasonable. Only today it was a part of Stockolmsradio about a mother of two who has been required to connect her house to the municipality. It would cost her SEK 310 000 to get a line up to the land line and another $100,000 to get this line into the house – although she today has a working solution. It's not small money, and it's totally unreasonable. I have in my hand a binder with signatures. I have it from my colleague Edward Riedl, and I will hand it over to the Minister for the Environment in the next step. It is a network that calls itself VA in Tiden, where individual property owners affected by these planned forced connections have collected signatures. In just one month, 712 pieces have been collected from all over Sweden. Active people are good!
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1243	Madam President, I would like We are today debating water issues, and water, more specifically drinking water, is our most important food. Clean drinking water is a prerequisite for good health, growth and jobs, yes, for virtually every welfare indicator. Globally, development is good. Since 1990, drinking water supplies have increased by 20 per cent. However, it is still a major global problem as around 2 billion people in the world lack access to clean drinking water. Madam President, I would like In Sweden, the situation is much better. We have good water supply, including through all our fresh water sources. Ground water may be difficult at times, but it is not because of a lack of groundwater, but because we may not be good enough to take advantage of it. We have extremely good water treatment, but it can, of course, be even better. It is therefore positive that the committee agrees that more should be done to develop advanced water treatment to deal with the residues of medicinal products. Furthermore, when you access the residue of drugs, you can further improve the absorption of phosphorus in the purification system because phosphorus attaches to the larger particles that new advanced treatment plants can filter out. Another question one might also ask is whether non-prescription medicines that burden our environment should really continue to be non-prescription even if we can achieve better purification. Madam President, I would like The most acute problem when it comes to our waters is undoubtedly the eutrophication of the Baltic Sea. Sweden has been actively working for many years, and we can see that it is actually producing results. Nitrogen emission levels have been significantly reduced. We are also in goal in terms of nutrient leakage to parts of the Baltic Sea, although in the Baltic Sea itself it is still extremely problematic. However, it is disappointing to hear that, despite decades of work, we have not succeeded at all in limiting the phosphorus leakage from agriculture. This is probably because the right measures have not been identified. More ad hoc action is needed than we have had today. There is much to do, and it is therefore gratifying that the Environmental Objectives Committee is now working on this. It will be interesting and exciting to see what you come up with. While we are going to do more to combat nutrient leakage, we must be open about the existence of target conflicts. One could quite easily reduce the nutrient leakage enough to the Baltic Sea by closing down all agriculture and importing all food. Of course, we should not do this, and that is why all measures in this area must be compatible with increasing Swedish food production. Here it is interesting to mention the WFD and how it is implemented today. Full implementation of the Government's proposed action programme to comply with the WFD would have far-reaching consequences for Swedish food production. Sweden has chosen its own model where all the objectives and requirements of the Directive have been given the status of environmental quality standards. The Water Directive is basically a fairly reasonable package of measures, but it places far too much financial burden on agriculture, which may have to take considerable areas of arable land out of production. The Swedish Democrats believe that the action programme's proposals for measures should be characterised by cost-effectiveness and a balance between a good aquatic environment and a sustainable and competitive Swedish agriculture and forestry. For this reason, I support our reservation No 3. In the same way, it is worth mentioning the people who are affected by the authorities' tougher demands for forced access to municipal sewers. Houseowners who are not well-ordered and whose houses do not directly have Stockholm prices are often affected. Of course, we shall continue to work to plug the nutrient leakage, but it must be combined with a policy that also includes a fair perspective. For this reason, we will be voting in favour of reservation 10 in this House next week. We raised these issues on several occasions during the previous parliamentary term, and we are, of course, in favour of the same policy today. Madam President, I would like The importance of regional work on water issues cannot in any way be underestimated. If we are to be able to restore the Baltic Sea, we are completely dependent, for example, on Poland and Russia working towards the same goal. Looking at burden-sharing, these countries account for 70% of the emissions that need to be reduced, and it can be said that these issues are not so high on the agenda in Poland, Russia and some other Baltic Sea countries. It is therefore important to give high priority to regional and international work. More financial resources and more energy are needed, and most of what needs to be done for the Baltic Sea must actually be done by other countries. That's it, but we can help them.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1259	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that, of course, I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 11. Madam President, I would like We have here tonight to debate a report that concerns me like hay at home in an archipelago parish in particular – I will admit – but which should be of great importance to all of us. The proposals discussed here are all somehow aimed at a more forward-looking, well-functioning and effective environmental policy. They aim to protect our seas, lakes and rivers. Not least, many of the proposals revolve around the Baltic Sea and the problem of eutrophication and the spread and release of heavy metals and environmental toxins – old sins – and the new challenges surrounding microplastics that threaten the marine environment and large parts of the natural and tourism values that are important for many people and for large parts of our country and indeed for Sweden's economy. They warm me as an environmentalist, as a centre party and as Grytsbo to see the genuine commitment expressed in these proposals. Unfortunately, Madam President, the commitment has not yet been sufficient to solve the problems we are seeing. Water issues have unfortunately become an example of just such a situation that my generation of environmentalists risks becoming too familiar with: not that environmental objectives and ambitions are not set, not that they do not exist and not necessarily that they are too weakly set, but that the deadline for achieving environmental objectives passes without us being able to say that we have achieved them and that we can move forward in our ambitions. This is exactly the case with parts of the objectives for a good marine environment that we have set ourselves. The majority will not be reached, especially with regard to eutrophication, environmental toxins and bottoms affected in various ways. It should therefore, Madam President, be a promise to ourselves, to the citizens and, not least, to future generations not only to set ambitious targets when we are going to revise the targets ahead in 2021, but first and foremost to ensure that the targets we set are actually achieved. This is the perspective that we in the Center Party have tried to take in the proposals we have made in the report: to move environmental policy forward but also to see that this is something that we can work for and that we can ensure that it is achieved. I would like to mention here a number of the proposals that we have put forward and which are dealt with in the report. The first thing I want to land in is the proposal for an environmental declaration for medicinal products. We know today that drug purification is a challenge, and I will come back to that in my speech. However, there are not only problems with purification, but also with the environmental impact of production and the climate impact of distribution, and it is a matter of consumers not being sure what the impact of the drugs are on them. It was mentioned here earlier by a speaker from a completely different party that they want to look at changing the legislation on medicines and to make certain medicines that are currently prescription-free. I do not believe that this is the right way forward, but we in the Center Party would like to see an environmental statement for medicines which makes it clear to the consumer what the environmental impact of the medicine is but which also demands that the impressions contained in the production and distribution be reported. Ultimately, this could be a means not only of working for a good marine environment here in our country but also of making demands on the production that is often located in other countries. We have talked about eutrophication here earlier in the debate. I think it is very wise that the majority of the committee has come to the conclusion that we want to strengthen cooperation and emphasise the importance of cooperation with our neighbouring countries in OSPAR and Helcom. But the Center Party would also like to clarify what our ambitions for cooperation should be and what demands we should make on our neighbours. Although much of the environmental impact lies in our neighbours, a large part of the solution to the problems of taking action in our neighbours is also. It is not the case that this removes the obligation that we have to work with eutrophication, the discharge of pharmaceutical residues and heavy metals, but, on the other hand, it doubles the obligation to try to persuade and support our neighbouring countries to take the necessary measures. One way to do this would be to work towards having some kind of binding emissions trading. It should not be the case that we make a distinction between Polish manure, Swedish manure and Russian sewage systems, but then we must try to find the tools and work for them in the forums we have. Furthermore, Madam President, there is the issue of drinking water. Here we believe in the Center Party that it is important that we learn from our neighbours here too. For example, we can look at Finland, which, in its actions and the quality requirements imposed on individual sewers, actually has a thinking based on where the efforts are most useful. They focus on large emission points, on what is close to the beach and what is most likely to affect. We would like to be inspired by this in Sweden. I think it could have given a greater understanding of the efforts that are being made if, as an individual or a trader, one sees that efforts will be prioritised precisely where they are most useful. I should like to point out in passing, although the report itself does not concern itself, that it is distressing that the drinking water council that has been under way, which is planned for and which has been investigated, has not come to the fore. This, Madam President, is, as far as I understand, partly about the fact that it may not have been pursued but also about the lack of funds in the autumn budget that was adopted. This should be corrected during the coming year. I am sure it is not out of spite that this has happened, but it is important that the work gets started properly and gets to work as soon as possible. Now that I have had this – I admit – rather dark speeches, it is important to point out that environmental work is not just burdensome and something that affects us. There are also opportunities in the proposals that are being made here. I would like to point out, for example, what is being said about the possibility of restoring phosphorus from wastewater treatment plants. Here is an opportunity to deal with one of the really challenging resource challenges that we see in the world, namely to ensure that we have enough fertiliser for agriculture when we are about to feed more and more people, who hopefully will have an increasingly good quality of life and economic situation, but also to find a growing export industry in Sweden. Finally, there is a specific opinion on the spread of microplastics. I am pleased to be able to state that it is a special opinion precisely because this is included in the January agreement and that we will have to look forward to tough measures against the spread of microplastics in nature. Finally, Madam President, I note that we are facing major challenges, but we also have some of the answers to how we achieve the goal: clean lakes and a viable marine environment.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1271	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 10. Water is a crucial resource. There are about 1.4 million cubic miles of water on earth. 97% of all water is made up of salt water. Only 3 percent of earth's water is fresh water, and then 2 percent is under glaciers. So only 1% is available to us humans, and then it's really important that we be careful about the water we have and the water supplies that exist. We in Sweden are spoiled with a lot of fine water. But last summer's drought shows that we too can be affected by many dry wells. The 2016 drinking water investigation highlights several issues such as emergency preparedness, maintenance of drinking water and more. The study points out that a safe supply system for drinking water is a prerequisite for a functioning society. It is therefore important for the government to take measures to ensure the supply of Swedish drinking water in both the short and long term. It is very positive, Madam President, that all parties are now in favour of drug treatment in wastewater treatment plants, which is a long-run issue by the Christian Democrats. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats welcome the investigation Paths to sustainable water services that seek to address the problems that exist. We hope that, based on the report of the study, legislative proposals can provide greater flexibility in the legislation, reducing the cost to both municipalities and individual property owners, while simplifying the construction of rural areas. The requirements for chemical purification of the individual sewers are currently very square. Here we should follow Finland where they have more flexible rules. Madam President, I would like It is high time to stop the witch hunt that hundreds of thousands of property owners experience when they are required to rebuild their sewage facilities, although it is scientifically proven that the small amount of phosphorus – one kilo from a normal household per year – is in most cases bound to the ground. If the requirements for renovations are met, it will be several billion SEK which will not yield any environmental benefits. It is, of course, important to require property owners who have facilities that do not work to fix them. However, many unapproved individual sewers are currently owned by older people or others with low financial resources. The investment to install an approved drain can be unduly burdensome or impossible for these property owners. We heard earlier from Betty Malmberg about a woman in Stockholm. There are many such cases around Sweden. Rules for individual sewers should allow those who have an individual drain that meets the applicable environmental and health requirements not to be imposed on a municipal sewer. However, if this happens, the compensation to the individual should be calculated on the basis of a depreciation period of 20 years instead of the current 10 years.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1279	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation No 7, 'Safe supply of drinking water and liability', so that I do not forget it. Of course, I support all of our reservations, but reservation 7 covers most of what I want to highlight in this particular debate. For example, the environmental situation in our seas and watercourses is critical due to emissions, eutrophication and exploitation. It is also a question of reducing discharges into seas and watercourses, for example through a leakage tax. Furthermore, the supply of drinking water must be ensured and more surface and groundwater must be protected. The reservation also points to the need for a series of measures to prevent, for example, plastic and pharmaceuticals from spreading in our waters. Part of the January agreement between the Government, the Center Party and the Liberals is precisely that the spread of harmful microplastics should be prevented by the prohibition of microplastics in several products, the prohibition of unnecessary plastic articles and the levy or tax on disposable items. Here, Sweden needs to be a driving force to create cooperation for a sharper international regulatory framework. As has been pointed out earlier, seas are not only a national matter but also, to a great extent, a global matter. I am also pleased that this wise committee has received two announcements to the government about international cooperation in maritime matters and advanced sewage treatment, which the previous speaker has very carefully reviewed. Therefore, it is also good that the allocation for measures for marine and aquatic environments is increased by SEK 120 million in the spring change budget. It is money that should go to actions and measures to improve, preserve, plan, restore and protect marine and aquatic environments. Madam President, I would like I deleted about two thirds of my speech because we are so in agreement on these issues. It is gratifying when we are dealing with vital issues. But when I was sitting in my chamber thinking about what I was going to say today, I got a newspaper that we all get in our mailboxes. It's called Home & Rent. One of the spreads has not received the attention it deserves. When you look it up it says that 1.5 million Swedes have PFOS-polluted water. 1.5 million of our citizens thus have a tap water that is clearly contaminated by toxic substances. These are chemical substances which are water and fat repellent and which, for example, are used in fire foams. They do not break down in nature, and they affect our immune system and our liver and cholesterol levels. The Food Authority is waiting until further action is taken until a report is presented by the European Food Safety Authority (Efsa). However, it is a clear sign that we are now at a time when we can no longer take our most necessary food, the water, for granted. Here politicians at all levels have a great responsibility and a heavy job. We must have access to water of good quality and quantity. I noted that today the Minister for Rural Development commissioned the county administrative boards to take stock of the water situation throughout the country. That's good. In this context, I hope that the municipal va-system, whose maintenance in many cases is inexcusably neglected, is part of the mission. Otherwise, it's a hot tip from the Liberals. Madam President, I would like I note that the government has decided not to proceed with several of the proposals from the Drinking Water Investigation, which finally came into place. They have done so pending further evidence. That is why the Liberals' motion is rejected this year. One may have some understanding that facts need to be collected, but we have no understanding that it took so long for the investigation to take place at all. Here we need to see more initiatives from the government so that we can feel that there is safe access to drinking water. Madam President, I would like It is late now, so I am limiting myself to this and, as I said, I am in favour of Amendment No 7.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1288	Madam President, I would like Tonight we are talking in this House about our water and water management while the rain is dripping outside the Parliament House. I wanted to begin my speech by giving a few breaths to a large brain whose heart stopped beating exactly on the day 500 years ago. He died on May 2, 1519. At that time, there and then, it was believed that all matter is made up of four elements: earth, air, fire and water. In other words, water was one of the given elements. And many of Leonardo da Vinci's inventions consisted of precisely the technique of the art of handling and taming our water. Today we know better. There are far more dimensions than the four elements. But at the same time we know that water is directly necessary for all life on our planet. Madam President, I would like I was going to talk about water from three perspectives. I am starting from a European perspective, because common problems are best solved jointly. The EU has adopted a framework directive for a marine strategy, often referred to as the Marine Environment Directive. The aim is to achieve and maintain a good status in all of Europe's seas. At the same time, there is also the European Union Strategy for the Baltic Sea Region. This strategy is, moreover, the first macro-regional strategy within Europe. The strategy was set in 2009 and is divided into three objectives: linking the region, increasing prosperity and saving the marine environment. The work is wide-ranging, and common problems are best solved jointly. In June 2016, the Environment Council adopted conclusions on the EU circular economy action plan. The conclusions call, among other things, for measures to be taken to reduce the emissions of plastics into the marine environment and to introduce a ban on microplastic articles in several products. The plastic that ends up in the marine environment is slowly but surely broken by sun, wind and water. Eventually, the plastic becomes very small particles, so-called microplastics. In recent years, the problems of microplastics have been increasingly highlighted. Studies show that microplastics can cause damage to the marine environment and its organisms, and what can harm animals, seas and water will sooner or later harm us humans. The European Chemicals Agency has also presented restriction proposals for added microplastics in a number of products. Last year, the European Commission also presented a plastic strategy covering, among other things, the design, recycling and limitation of marine litter emissions. Within the EU, we also have the Water Directive, which lays down a framework for European Community cooperation in the field of water policy. The WFD sets out the principles for a sustainable water policy in the EU. And Sweden is committed to meeting the requirements. In the spring of this year, the European Commission also published a strategy on pharmaceuticals in the environment. Medicines save lives in animals and people, but if our medicines end up freely and incorrectly in our environment, there is a risk of drug resistance arising, which makes our medicines ineffective on the day we need them. Madam President, I would like Let's talk more about water from a Nordic perspective and our nearby seas. The Helsinki Convention, also known as Helcom, is a 1992 Regional Environmental Convention for the Baltic Sea Region, including the Kattegat. All coastal states are involved, including Russia and the EU as an organisation. The body consists of a number of working groups dealing with issues such as emissions, hazardous substances, maritime issues and biodiversity. OSPAR is a corresponding regional cooperation to protect the environment in the North-East Atlantic, including the North Sea, the Skagerrak and parts of the Kattegat. Cooperation includes all coastal states as well as Finland, Luxembourg and the EU as an organisation. With Sweden's marine strategy for the North Sea and the Baltic Sea, we work with the environmental status of our marine areas and with standards, indicators, monitoring and, of course, measures. What affects most in our marine areas is mainly nitrogen and phosphorus, but also dangerous substances, disturbance of bottoms and endangered species. The supply of phosphorus and nitrogen from Sweden needs to reduce to our waters and seas as they contribute to eutrophication. Phosphorus compounds are included in fertilizers. There they are an important area of use. Half of Sweden's phosphorus supply from land to the Baltic Sea comes from agricultural land. Other sources are wastewater via wastewater treatment plants, small wastewaters, phosphorus released from sediments on the bottom, stormwater, non-managed flows from wastewater treatment plants and pipelines, discharges from industries and fish farms. It is, thankfully, forbidden for all commercial traffic to discharge toilet waste within Swedish maritime territory and economic zone. Furthermore, for cruise ships, passenger ships and ferries, a ban on the discharge of toilet waste into international waters in the Baltic Sea region is introduced as of this year for new ships and 2021 for existing vessels. Madam President, I would like Finally, let me talk about water and water management from a more close perspective in Sweden. The Government has launched several studies on plastics, and work is ongoing at the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management, the Swedish National Road and Transport Research Institute, the Swedish Food Administration and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Results will be presented on an ongoing basis. With the January agreement and the four-party agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party, we will actively work towards the spread of microplastics. Dissemination shall be prevented, inter alia, by banning more products, stopping unnecessary plastic articles and imposing charges on disposable articles. Sweden will push in the EU to phase out all disposable plastic. With the January agreement, we will also strengthen the development of a circular economy with a review of the regulations for the recycling and management of waste because, as you know, sooner or later litter risks ending up in our waters. Only a few weeks ago the Social Democratic-led government presented its spring change budget. The Government is now investing approximately SEK 2 billion in climate and environment in the spring change budget, which makes this area the largest total investment. For the investment in clean sea and water, the Government proposes to increase the funding by SEK 200 million. Among other things, it is proposed that SEK 40 million be allocated to assessing the environmental status of water, and for the clean-up and restoration of contaminated areas increased by SEK 40 million. Measures for the marine and aquatic environment are increased by SEK 120 million. Efforts against eutrophication are increasing. Madam President, I would like I have now spoken about water from three perspectives: from a European perspective, from a Nordic perspective with our surrounding seas and from a perspective with more concrete initiatives here and now in Sweden. It is difficult to talk about water and our seas without mentioning environmental problems, but together we can change developments. The race isn't over. With political courage and determination, we can hand over fresh water and viable watercourses and seas even to our children and grandchildren. Like Leonardo da Vinci, there are three types of people, those who see them and those who do not see, we must also have the courage to take the decisions here today and see for 500 years to come. Common problems are best solved jointly.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1307	Madam President, I would like Water, as many have said, is our most important food. I am going to talk about water resources in Sweden. The Swedish Radio programme P1 Caliber has conducted a survey to 21 county boards and 222 municipalities during the spring. The results show that almost one third, 30 percent, of raw water resources lack water protection areas. Kalibers's review also shows that water resources without water protection areas provide drinking water for nearly 1 1⁄2 million people. Kalibers's results are well in line with the survey that Swedish Water did in 2013 to protect drinking water. That study found that over 1 million people received their drinking water from water sources that were completely unprotected. Furthermore, more than 4 million people received their drinking water from water sources with partly outdated and outdated protection, i.e. water protection areas established prior to the creation of the Environmental Code in 1999. The major difference between the new water protection areas and those established before 1999 is that land use within an area may have changed so drastically that the older provisions of the Water Act 1938 are no longer relevant and, moreover, often lack risk inventory. The processes at work are expensive and lengthy. Responsibility often falls on several municipalities and county boards. A number of parties are involved in addition to the public sector, such as forestry, gravel, roads and industries. But, above all, problems have arisen in cases where the interests of agriculture are put against the interests of water. Legislation is unclear. The issue of compensation to landowners in the event of land use restrictions does not currently have a satisfactory solution. For many years now, the debate on and the issue of compensation has been discussed with, what I usually call, a loud voice. The Moderates also have a reservation on the subject in the report. There is therefore reason to raise the issues in the debate. The issue of compensation was investigated at the latest in 2012. A number of authorities are involved. Now the Maritime and Water Authority is responsible for the issue, but there are also other authorities involved. There is general advice and a handbook on water protection areas. The municipalities or county administrative board may provide for restrictions on the right to dispose of properties in the area necessary to satisfy the purpose of the area, which is called – that is, they may decide what applies within a water protection area. That's why it looks different throughout the country in different municipalities. The rules are applied differently. The issue of compensation is dealt with differently. There is uncertainty as to what applies and how the environmental code is to be interpreted. The Environmental Code states that the property owner is entitled to compensation due to decisions that involve the use of land or that ongoing land use within the relevant part of a property is significantly more difficult, if the decision applies to regulations in accordance with Chapter 7. Section 22 on measures and restrictions relating to water protection areas. The 2012 Compensation Report looked at compensations in certain specific cases of restrictions of advice. This was specifically the case for health protection, environmental protection and safety reasons. Compensation can then normally be given to individuals only in certain cases. It shall not apply in the event of restrictions on health protection, environmental protection or safety. Then the starting point is that no compensation should be provided. It is very unclear today what interpretation to use. It is not possible to go into all the turns and views on this issue. But we need a strong move. The basis of the environmental code is that the polluter pays. The basis is not that you pay someone not to pollute. A clearer political solution is needed. There are opportunities to replace polluting activities with activities that do not pollute in the areas where our water protection areas should exist. This applies, for example, to the use of pesticides in conventional agriculture. It could be replaced by organic farming which does not use chemical pesticides. I do not think it is a human right to continue to pollute the water supply. A political solution to open up for a clear and consistent compensation procedure is needed. This requires new regulations and new general advice from the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management and clarification in the legislation. It is also necessary to clarify what is to be included in the concept of water protection area, and the definitions need to be the same throughout the country. What the law today calls primary zone should reasonably mean, for example, that pesticides should not be used and that it should be banned without any special compensation for it. It must be clarified how possible exemptions are to be applied and so on. Better government governance and guidance are needed as well as a joint decision on this in the Swedish parliament where we can agree. Otherwise, I cannot believe in all parties when their representatives are standing in the speaker's seat saying that clean water is important, an important issue and the most important food we have. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report. As you can see, we are all parties involved in the two announcements that are being made. It is not at all very strange, because these are issues where the government is already working very hard and very much. This applies, for example, to the Helsinki Commission, where we have been involved for a very long time. It is also very good that the Riksdag stresses that the Helsinki Commission's Council must be followed more clearly. On the issue of the committee's position on the treatment of medicinal products in sewage treatment plants, I would like to emphasise in particular what we are writing in the report that there is a great need for research. New, sensitive analytical methods are indeed needed for the detection of new chemical threats and efficient purification technologies. Research at the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences in Uppsala has shown that modern advanced purification technology – that is, the one that we propose that it should be developed more of – can in some cases lead to the toxicity, toxicity, from drug residues in the outlying wastewaters to be reinforced. This area is extremely complex. More research and more scientifically based expert support is needed very quickly for the municipalities that are working to develop wastewater treatment. Madam President, I would like I would also like to emphasise that it is good that regions and county councils are active in reducing the risks of drug residues through active tightening up. In Stockholm you have an eco-label of medicines that you can follow throughout the country. In Uppsala there are experiments with the purification of outgoing sewers from Uppsala University Hospital. We really need to find long-term sustainable solutions. The treatment in a sewage treatment plant can be fantastic from a water perspective while the pollutants accumulate in the sludge. Then we have another loop problem to solve. Madam President, I would like I will not extend this evening's debate any further. Finally, I would like to refer to all the issues that have arisen about individual sewers. These are questions that the Minister for the Environment has answered quite recently in Parliament's Chamber. She has referred to the fact that there has been a new investigation into individual sewers. The study advocates more flexible solutions. It is now out for a referral. I very much hope that the M-KD budget has not eroded Sweden's economy so much that we cannot make investments in this area quite soon.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1329	Madam President, I would like The hour's late. Of course one wonders: should I get up in the debate and take a line? But given that I'm being apostrophated, I still think it's in order. Maria Gardfjell takes up water protection areas in great detail. She begins by saying that only 30 percent of drinking water supplies have protection in the form of water protection. In the next step, she basically leaves it in the knee of us Moderates. We write that there should be flexibility. It is what we express in our reservation and in our motion that lies behind it. It's about it looking very different in different places. It may not be that we can have exactly the same kind of protection everywhere. The liquid, for example, which is one of the largest drinking water sources in northern Europe, is now a water protection area. At the same time, we know that a mining project is being planned. The defense is practicing shootings in Lake Vättern. It's not so static. In that situation, I wonder what such a water protection area means. Maria Gardfjell also addresses the problem of leaching and how agriculture can pollute in various water protection areas. In fact, it is organic farming that, according to research, leaks mostly to watercourses. I think Maria Gardfjell can take that to heart.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1334	Madam President, I would like It was 30 percent of the raw water supplies that lacked water protection and did not have. But we're not going to debate that much. I understand the Moderates' proposal that you can imagine having weaker protection in some places. I think it is the environment and health that must take priority when it comes to protecting such an important resource as our drinking water. As far as water is concerned, this is an issue that I am very happy to debate. I also know that Betty Malmberg is one of the MPs who are very committed to this issue. Here, we from the Green Party believe that there is a need for a new approach to the protection of drinking water supplies. The reason why the defence can practice in a drinking water revenue that has national interest or great value is that the defence's national interest always goes first. I believe that we need to be able to have a modern discussion about this in Parliament, and preferably also in the Defence Committee, which is currently working. It is a question of the defence having long-term planning for its facilities and activities so that we can also spare drinking water and drinking water supplies. This is extremely important. I really think that the issue of constructing a mine at this point is controversial. There is, of course, quite a lot of legislation on the construction of industrial activities. But the mining industry is a little on a trail alongside, as an exception.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1340	Madam President, I would like The reason I mentioned Vättern is because, as I said, it is a designated water protection area and it has this protection. On the other hand, however, all these measures can be taken, which I think goes a little too far towards the first. This can also explain some of how one needs to look at the issue. If Maria Gardfjell had taken the time to read our exercise, she would have seen that the Moderates write that we should of course secure water of good quality in all drinking water supplies. However, there may still be some adaptation to local conditions. Not all of the countless drinking water supplies in Sweden look exactly the same, and the protection that, for example, a water protection area gives Vättern I do not give much for in this situation. I have asked the Minister for the Environment whether she has views on Hydrogen as a drinking water supply and how this drinking water can be secured. I have asked because we are also talking about the fact that Vättern will also be able to supply the Mälar Valley with drinking water. There is, in the long run, a discussion on this issue. The Minister for the Environment then replied completely sonically that as long as you follow the environmental code, all is peace and joy – point. This is still a question. We can hide behind legislation, but we must also be honest and say what is actually a reality and how we ourselves act in reality. It may be that we need to reconsider legislation, but then I think that is what we should be discussing.
i-ef9cfc505a7faf21-1344	Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Green Party, we want to reconsider the legislation. We want to strengthen the protection of water resources, and we want to ensure that water protection areas exist in all raw water sources throughout Sweden. We also believe that it is extremely important that the protection of drinking water is a fact that should not mean that society should replace, for example, a farmer in order to spread pesticides that can contaminate the water in a water supply. This is unfortunately one of the back pages of the concept of flexibility, which the Moderates use in their reservation. Nevertheless, I look forward to working together widely in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture on these issues, because I think we really need to ensure that our drinking water is better protected in the future.
