i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-0	Madam President, I would like Today, about half a million people working in health care have gone to work. They are the health workers, who every day do their best to give both you and me the care we need. It is a question of good care on equal terms and according to the needs of the entire population. Health care employees often have a vital job – a job that matters to us all when we are not able to manage ourselves, when we have become ill or have received some damage that makes us need help from the health care system. In some sense, all of us 10 million inhabitants in Sweden are patients, but some people never or rarely need care. Some people in the population can handle most of it with the help of self-care and perhaps help from the pharmacy's well-trained employees; others need more help from the health care system. Nearly half of the population have a chronic disease, and a quarter have two or more chronic diseases. It is about diabetes, COPD, asthma, allergy, migraine and many more. The chronic diseases currently account for a large part of the country's total health care costs – according to the Swedish Agency for Health and Care Analysis, it is about 80 – 85 percent. The population is getting older. We're getting more and more year-rich. This will mean that we need more health care. Many people seek care for various forms of depression, anxiety or similar mental disorders. About one in three in the health centre's waiting room is looking for this, and a large part of those who are on sick leave are due to mental illness. We do not know enough about the causes of the increasing mental illness, but it is likely that many coordinated efforts will be needed to reverse the trend. This involves efforts not only from health care but also from other parts of society. Madam President, I would like A further area that requires special attention in the future is all the amazing things that can be achieved through precision medicine, as it is sometimes called. This means that, through increasingly advanced diagnostic methods, you can find exactly the tumor or cancer cell to be treated and give a very precise treatment. It is advanced, successful and has high costs. While these amazing methods are being developed, we need to find the right forms of precision medicine. What's the structure supposed to be like? How are we going to finance it so that it becomes equal? How are we going to manage the entire chain of treatment, care and rehabilitation in the best way? Health care must be able to meet all these needs. This requires competence based on science and proven experience – competence that needs to be constantly replenished. This means that we also need to have activities that in a structured way ensure further training and further training for all healthcare employees, not just for managers at different levels. The Committee on Social Affairs is today debating the report we have discussed. It contains a variety of areas. I do not think that any of us who are going to speak will be able to touch everything, but it will be a sample. Madam President, I would like There are some areas where the committee is united. One area I would like to highlight is IT systems in the healthcare sector. It is about journals and other health information systems, quality registers and much more. These are systems that have been built up for many years in the operations. Pretty soon, the activities have realised the need for coordination so that you can access the information and enter new information no matter where in the region I am. This also applies between regions, so that it is linked together. The regions have, I would say, been trying hard for many years to bring about this system coordination so that the systems are compatible with each other. If something is entered at the county hospital in Kalmar, it should be read the next day if I need to seek medical care at Höglandssjukhust i Eksjö or at the health centre Aroma in Vetlanda. But it has proved difficult; we are not yet aware that this can work seamlessly. Now we have come to a point where the state needs to take responsibility for developing common standards and terminology so that the systems will be compatible with each other regardless of which system the region, municipality or other health care authorities procure. As you sometimes say, the systems should be able to talk to each other. The committee also stresses that the Patient Data Act and other relevant legislation need to be reviewed in this context, so that we get it to a whole that works. The committee has met during various debates for a long time. We have heard each other say that we have probably come to the point where the state needs to assist so that common standards are developed and apply throughout the country. As I said, this applies not only to the health care for which the regions are responsible, but also to that for which the municipalities are responsible. That is why it is a united committee which is today proposing to the government to ensure that we get things right in the right way. I am grateful that we have been able to land in this. There is still work to be done in the government. I think it should be possible to do so in the near future when we have a united parliament that will eventually decide on it today, so that we can actually do what is so important for health care. Madam President, I would like In another area, we have not landed in a joint proposal today. I would particularly like to highlight primary care – the good, close, coordinated care, which will be a cornerstone of health care in the future. We have a government investigation as a basis, and it has met with a very good response. There is a basis for the government to move forward so that we can take important steps to get a good close care throughout the country. We Christian Democrats believe that we need to clarify the tasks of primary care, ensure patients' right to a permanent medical contact and define the mandate of the care team so that it is not listed for many patients, which makes it impossible for the mission we want them to carry out. We need some kind of list roof, otherwise it will not be sustainable. Now I mean it's time for decisions. I understand that we have a broad consensus on implementing a major change, in which we strengthen and reform in a long-term way so that we get good close care throughout the country. Health care needs to be extended, but it has to be done in different ways in the country. We need to think less about houses and more about functions and efforts. This expansion of primary care is important, but it is also important that we allocate financial resources. The budget adopted in December contains 11⁄2 billion for this year and 3 billion for this year. I think it is necessary for the state to provide resources for it to work when we reform and when we expand. The Christian Democrats support all our reservations, but today we want to call for the approval of reservation 10. It is about primary care – about expanding, defining the mission and getting a list ceiling to ensure that this can work. We Christian Democrats believe that it is time to move from words to action in the area of good, close and coordinated care.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-26	Madam President, I would like I find it very fun that we have come so far with our exercise treatment that we now have to discuss what we think about all the fantastic sports that have been submitted to the Riksdag for treatment. It is also exciting that we have the opportunity to talk about healthcare and the challenges of healthcare in Sweden. I have promised myself that every time I talk about health care I will start with things that I think work well, because I think that we all too often talk about things that work miserablely. All too often, the media's attention to healthcare issues is also dominated by things that do not work and where healthcare is not enough. Still, it is well worth bearing the basic facts. Health care in Sweden is fantastic. It is based on a fundamental, solidarity-based idea that, regardless of whether you are rich or poor, you should have the right to the best care. We also achieve outstanding medical results. Medical journals around the world show time and again that Swedish healthcare is at the top of the world, and it is something to be really proud of as a Swede. Mortality in breast cancer and prostate cancer is decreasing, mortality in cardiovascular diseases has halved in the last 20 years and we have lots of talented employees out in Medical Sweden who are making incredible contributions to the healthcare system. Then, however, there are challenges. We have too weak patient power – the position of patients is far too poor – we have problems with the availability of our system and we have growing concerns with demography. I am extremely concerned when Anders Knape, SKL's newly elected chairman, says that he does not understand how the resources will be sufficient for healthcare and municipal care in the future. He appeals to the state to help better in the future. I think it is important for us here in the Swedish Parliament to take SKL's warning signals seriously. When health care in the coming years will be in a situation where the proportion older than 80 years will increase by 47 percent, it is easy to realise that health care will face tougher challenges. I believe that one of the major strengths of Swedish healthcare is regional self-government and the possibility of building different healthcare systems in different parts of Sweden. To be able to build near-acutes here in Stockholm that eases the pressure in the emergency rooms I think is a brilliant idea. It is a fantastic idea, Madam President, when other methods of developing rural health care can be developed in rural Sweden. I think we need to realise that the healthcare challenges in Sweden are so different that it is good that you can make decisions regionally and locally on how to build your own healthcare. I would like to warn those who believe that health care problems are solved by simple nationalisation requirements. That's making it way too easy for you. I am very pleased with many of the challenges and demands that we have jointly – S, MP, L and C – managed to develop in our joint agreement. This points to a direction forward for Swedish healthcare that is reasonable and correct. We need to work on accessibility. Instead of working with the old, roughly axious queue billions, which risked firing off multisickness and which only rewarded some parts, we will try to find a better system. We need a system that is also adapted to the different regional challenges around Sweden and where everything is not based on the Stockholm measurement stock, but on yardsticks depending on the challenges you have around our country. We need to develop the patient contract idea so that you as a patient can find out what applies to your care in the future and when to get the next visit. We need to develop and put in the lake a primary care reform, and I am very pleased that many parties think it is reasonable that we should develop and strengthen primary care in the future. Furthermore, we need to work with mental illness. All of this has been agreed by the four parties. It will be really fun to see all this put in the lake in the coming years. Madam President, I would like Often when you talk about health care and the challenges of health care, the debate becomes strange in some way. Either it will be Stefan Lövven's fault that things will fail, or it will be Minister of Health Lena Hallengren's fault that things will go wrong, or else the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee can get some criticism directed at him, because people think that we national politicians have done it again and have not arranged things. Then let me take a sample of some regional challenges that Swedish health care still faces. Here in Stockholm, I can note, Madam President, that the Södersjukhus Hospital has the longest waiting time in the country. And at Karolinska Hospital, a fantastic building and actually the 11th most expensive building in the globe, we can now say that the money is over. Now you have to fire 550 employees at the hospital. Is this Lena Hallengren's fault or Acko Ankarberg's fault as chairman of the Social Affairs Committee? I dare to say that if you as a citizen of Stockholm are upset about the long waiting times at Södersjukhus or that staff at Karolinska Hospital are fired, then you should talk to Irene Svenonius. She is the Chairman of the Regional Board here in Stockholm and Moderate. If you in Skåne are upset about the cuts that are now being made at the memorial reception in Malmö, where two thirds of the money disappears, it is also not Lena Hallengren's fault. I recommend that those who are upset about this turn instead to Carl Johan Sonesson, chairman of the regional board, he also moderated. If you in Dalarna happen to think it is wrong to cut back on the medication for patients with eye diseases and resort to cheaper medicines that will make you get more injections, it is not really Stefan Lövven's fault. It is not him you should yell at when things go so bad in eye care in Dalarna, but you should talk to Ulf Berg, the chairman of the regional board, also he moderated. In Västra Götaland, people are now going to get rid of 300 year-olds in health care – nurses, doctors and others. Neither is Lena Hallengren's fault. It is not Lena Hallengren who has decided that it should be that way, but if you as a resident in Gothenburg are upset about this I recommend a conversation with Johnny Magnusson, the chairman of the regional board, also he moderated. When you get angry that things in health care are not working, I think it is important to put the responsibility of those who are actually responsible: those who have won democratic mandates and those who have a responsibility to govern health care in their regions. It is a responsibility that they should bear and not try to push away to someone else. Madam President, I would like I think this will be an exciting and good discussion and look forward to it. I hope that the big discussion will be about what we are nationally responsible for. I think we should take Anders Knape's call seriously, that we should help the regions and provide more state funding in the future. Perhaps it is more important to raise more money for health care in the future than to think about new, gigantic tax cuts in the coming years, because health care will need much more resources if we are to meet the demographic challenges of the coming years. With this, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal. We think that all our reservations are very sensible and well thought out in every way possible, Madam President. But we are in favour of our particular reservation 32, which deals with outpatient care choices. We think it would be an unfortunate development if the regions in Sweden chose to trot patrol after Stockholm. Stockholm health care has 38 care choices, you have healthcare systems that doctors can't find right in because they are so fragmented and hospitals that are competed out by private outpatient clinics. This is not a reasonable development. The rest of Sweden should not take this development.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-50	Madam President, I would like I listened carefully when Dag Larsson said that responsibility should be placed at the right level. Therefore, I would like to ask Dag Larsson: How do you see that the Riksdag has decided that more than 4 billion will go to health care but that not a crown has been paid out so far? Dag Larsson highlighted the need for resources. But not yet has a crown of the 4 billion decided by the Riksdag come to health care, and we are now in the month of May. That is why, Madam President, I wonder how Mrs Larsson views this. Now that we are going to expand good and close care, we cannot just ask existing staff to do more and take care of more things. Therefore, a list ceiling is needed that limits the number of patients to be taken care of by the team, otherwise the fixed health care contacts will not work. How does Dag Larsson view list ceilings in any form?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-52	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Acko Ankarberg Johansson, for the questions, which I find very interesting! I myself think it is extremely urgent that the money that should have been paid out to the regions be paid out. Much of this money presupposes that agreements are made with SKL on what is actually to be done. It is a side-effect of, among other things, the mess and the hassle we had about the formation of government that many processes have been delayed, which I find unfortunate. We, too, at the national level, will have to consider what kind of requirements it is reasonable to make when agreeing with SKL on how the money will come out. I have great sympathy for the discussion on list ceilings. I know that a lot of people working in primary care work under tough and difficult conditions. It is therefore reasonable for us to consider how we can make things easier for those who work in primary care when we are now going to put a primary care reform in the lake, which we agree on. However, I am not convinced that a national list cap is the right way to go. It is probably more reasonable for the regions to decide what level they want to be at. As you know, the challenges of healthcare and primary care are very different from one another. It is one thing to run a primary care clinic on Södermalm and another, and much heavier, to run a primary care clinic in Vårberg in Botkyrka.
i-N9CMLgoyzJpXLdPW8XJU8P	Madam President, I would like I thank Dag Larsson for the answers. Let's take the latter first, list tops. I agree that it has to look different depending on the weight of care in patients and so on. But we need to establish at national level that one should have the right to a list ceiling, otherwise this will not work. Just hoping it's gonna be okay won't work. When we expand primary care, we must send with the right conditions. One such, in addition to determining the mission of primary care, is to say that there should be a list ceiling. But of course you have to think about what it should look like and how you see the difference between the patient who needs more time and the person who needs something less time. As far as the economy is concerned, we agree that health care needs this money. Some things need to be regulated, such as the future of the queue billions. The alliance was clear that a revised queue billion would better cater for those who need a return visit, not least chronic. It's about at least 11⁄2 billion to strengthen primary care. My view is that we do not need to control so much here but just talk about that primary care should be expanded and sent with the prerequisites for primary care tasks and so on. Should you not be able to start with this money, 1 1⁄2 billion to expand primary care and hire more physiotherapists, nurses, dieticians and many more needed? Why can it not be ensured at national level that the money comes to health care? Dag Larsson himself has said that they are needed, and I fully agree with that.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-61	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Ankarberg Johansson. Let's continue the list-top discussion – I'll do it myself with the Medical Association and others – and maybe we can find each other a little bit. If you are going to have a list ceiling, each individual region must be allowed to decide for itself what this means, because we have different conditions in different parts of Sweden. To state at national level that there should be, for example, a maximum of 2,000 patients per doctor would be an unfortunate development, because sometimes there should be a significantly smaller number of patients than that. As far as state subsidies are concerned, I will have discussions with the Ministry and others about trying to speed up this process. It's urgent. Many of my former councillors around Sweden want this money. It is a question of finding in many of these agreements the appropriate level of requirements to be made by the state. The state has detailed far too much, often hastened by members of parliament who have demanded that one, than the other, be included. If the state has too many detailed requirements, it will in practice be difficult for the regions to live up to them.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-64	Madam President, I would like It is a comprehensive report, and there are a lot of reservations. Of course, I support all our reservations, but for the winning time I only agree to reservation 18. Madam President, I would like Getting a medical report in our country today is a bit like a lottery. If you live in the right part of the country, you can get treatment quite quickly. If you live in the wrong part of the country, it can go a long time and the disease risks getting worse. Adding gender and socio-economic background further complicates the picture. To debate Swedish health care is something of a balancing process. While we have an absolutely world-class care with good quality and amazing results, we have queues of absolute world class. Because we're leading the queue. Sweden is at the bottom of Europe in terms of providing people with care on time. We can't have it that way, and we shouldn't have it that way. Madam President, I would like The government has shown an almost impressive inability to address this problem. Under the red-green government the queues have doubled, and to the BUP they have tripled. Numbers are one thing. The serious thing is that behind each figure is a person, a patient, a man, a woman or a child who needs care but who the government has chosen to betray. For four years it rushed away, and no matter what the responsible minister's name was, no effort was made to provide these people with care on time. We Moderates see these patients and have their situation in mind when we present our proposals. Under the alliance government, queue billions were introduced, and it was successful. Various non-political reviews have shown this. It had its shortcomings and needed to be evaluated and developed as well as most political reforms, but its impact on Sweden's healthcare queues was difficult to turn a blind eye to. The red-green government removed the queue billions, and the queues rushed away. Without other tools and strategies in readiness and, in addition, constantly ralliing over the alleged evasive effects of queue billions, it seems almost like an irony of fate that the government is now forced to present a new and up-to-date queue billions. Thanks to the M-KD budget, the funds and resources are available. Now we are just waiting for Lena Hallengren – and as we are waiting, as the patients are waiting and as our regions and health politicians are waiting. While Lena Hallengren is thinking, the queues continue to grow. Only since the election have queues grown by an additional 8 percent, according to SKL's compilation of waiting times. Now the pressure is increasing, and the questions are piling up. Should Lena Hallengren propose a performance-linked and result-oriented queue billion? Should there be requirements for improved flows and working methods? Should queue times be kept in focus again and monitored and measured? Should the cue billion be seen as a carrot for improvement? Or is it the same old S-focus – that you give the billions to the red county councils that have the longest queues and there the money disappears and the queues continue to grow? I am seriously concerned about what is going to happen. Should the queue billion not be properly designed, the Red Green Government, together with its support parties, will be responsible for ensuring that patients in Sweden continue to wait and become increasingly ill while an important reform will have no effect. We Moderates want to see a results- and performance-oriented queue billions that are deeper and broadened and reformed to include the elements that the old one lacked, including diagnosis, return visits and rehabilitation – this to include the chronically ill. The government budget decided by the Riksdag, i.e. the M-KD budget, amounts to SEK 3 billion per year from 2020, as patients should not be in the waiting room. Queues must be shortened. Madam President, I would like Cancer affects almost everyone in one way or another. The number of cancer diagnoses is increasing, and regardless of whether you or a loved one are diagnosed, you are affected. The anxiety is severe and tiring. Not infrequently, the mental strain is severe. The treatments are often tough as well as the side effects, and it affects everyone in the patient's vicinity. Swedish cancer care is amazing. However, the difference in care and waiting times also applies to cancer care. In the 2014 election campaign, Stefan Löfven promised that no cancer patient would have to wait more than four weeks. It was an election promise that was never fulfilled, and the situation has worsened. Stefan Löfven and the Red Green Government have also failed the cancer patients. Only one in five women with cervical cancer receive treatment on time. Only one in four men and women with oesophagus or stomach cancer receive treatment on time. Fewer than half of men with prostate cancer receive treatment on time, and fewer than half of all women with breast cancer receive care on time. When the alliance government introduced Sweden's first national cancer strategy, it became very important for cancer care in our country. Fortunately, however, developments are forcing us forward, and this places new demands on the cancer strategy to be updated and developed. Why have the government and support parties prioritised a new and updated cancer strategy that is really needed? A new national cancer strategy is needed to connect cancer care and attractive research environments and create the conditions for exploiting all new opportunities with advanced diagnostics, biobanks, artificial intelligence and more advanced medical technology. Madam President, I would like We Moderates have therefore today called Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren to the Social Committee to explain and justify why they have deliberately chosen to remove this when credible organisations such as the Cancer Fund and the Swedish Childhood Cancer Fund express the need for a new and updated cancer strategy. Not least, we need to focus on rehabilitation throughout the care chain. Rehabilitation and exercise already during treatment affect recovery and quality of life and are also directly crucial for post-cancer life and if and to what extent you can return to working life. Finally, Madam President, it is particularly important to talk about childhood cancer. The mere idea that a child will suffer from disease, especially a disease such as cancer, is almost unthinkable. Yet it is precisely around childhood cancer that we must make special efforts. Thanks to M's and KD's budget, there are 60 million dedicated specifically to child cancer care. Today, 85% survive childhood cancer, but that is not enough. We Moderates share the Swedish Childhood Cancer Foundation's vision that childhood cancer should be eradicated. And this is possible. We need to invest further in research in order for all children to be cured, for as many as possible not to be affected and for life as a child cancer survivor to be as good and qualitative as possible. Seven out of ten children who have had cancer suffer from late complications. It can be about impaired health, various disabilities, depression, anxiety and pain and never being able to become a mother or father because of infertility. However, it may also involve an increased risk of other cancer diagnoses. The care must be all the way. We must be able to ensure a rehabilitation plan and psychosocial support. Finally, Madam President, cancer care and all other care should be in time for anyone who needs it. We Moderates are willing to take responsibility for this, and we are happy to do so in cooperation with the other parties.
i-22tUvUnVnmf8eK53oAsx39	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for one in many good speeches! I myself came to a point made by Mr Grönvall, who is very correct, namely that behind all the figures there are individual people. Against this background, I want to lift up an ordinary person, a citizen named Bertil Gustafsson, who, while alive, lived a few kilometres south of the Parliament House. He suffered from pancreatic cancer and was not treated with cancer. He was denied cancer care by Karolinska Hospital, who said it was full. There were rumours that it was full at Karolinska Hospital, so the Health Administration in Stockholm contacted Karolinska Hospital and asked: Is it true that you are fully occupied in your hospital? They were told there was no danger. Danderyd Hospital offered to help, but Karolinska Hospital denied and said that it was not necessary at all. In view of this individual case and the fact that it is the Member's party colleague Irene Svenonius who is ultimately responsible for healthcare here in Stockholm, I would like to ask Camilla Waltersson Grönvall : Have you had any talks about this complete breakdown in healthcare in Stockholm, where a person who is ill with pancreatic cancer is denied care and where one has a healthcare system where hospitals compete with each other instead of helping each other when there are long queues in cancer care? It is a breakdown for moderate healthcare in the Stockholm region, and I would like to hear if Camilla Waltersson Grönvall has had some talks with the Moderates here in Stockholm about what to do to make sure that this can never happen again.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-92	Madam President, I would like Initially, Dag Larsson, I would like to say that it is never okay for a person to be denied care. It is always just as serious to hear about the people and people behind the statistics. I was pleased when Mrs Dag Larsson spoke in her speech about the need to raise your eyes nationally. I would like to remind the honourable Member that today we are not in the house a few hundred metres away, but today the honourable Member is a Member of the Swedish Parliament, where we are discussing national health care. Madam President, I could refer to countless examples of individual people who are present in the care centres of Dalarna, where we have taken over for a few months, which I think the inhabitants are quite happy about. I could tell you about situations, about the people I met last week when I was in Västerbotten, which is the only completely red region after the last election, and about how it looks in the care there, for example in prostate cancer care. These are serious situations we are talking about, and there are many people falling between the chairs. It has completely lost control of the economy, and is currently forecasting a deficit of between 800 million and 1.2 billion, with a total turnover of 10 billion. It is clear that the long-term mismanagement of the economy will have consequences. Now that we are discussing the situation in health care, I think it is important that we have a humble attitude towards its being serious. We have a situation where many red county councils have worked up an extremely difficult situation where many individual people are now in a tight spot.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-96	Madam President, I would like I highlighted Bertil Gustafsson precisely because the honourable Member, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, clearly said that care is about individual people. I myself happen to think that this is one of the worst and most flagrant examples I have encountered in Swedish healthcare. There will always be failures and things that do not work in health care, but when hospitals refuse to cooperate and compete with each other, there is a crucial system error. Not only was Bertil Gustafsson affected by the fact that the cancer care in moderate-controlled Stockholm did not work, but there were about twenty patients who did not get their surgery at all, in the country's richest county council. In the county council where you make large surpluses, you do not manage to organise a health care where hospitals can cooperate with each other for the benefit of patients. It was out of curiosity that I thought it would be interesting to hear if Mr Grönvall had had some discussions with his moderate party colleagues in Stockholm. I assume they'll talk to each other about how the cancer care system can avoid such failures in the future.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-99	Madam President, I would like Despite the difficulties for Mrs Dag Larsson to raise his eyes to the national perspective, I would like to emphasise once again that I am sorry for all the people who are affected individually and end up between the chairs. I cannot comment on the individual case, because I am not aware of it. However, as Mrs Larsson knows, we have many examples from different regions of where it does not work. That's why we need to focus on, among other things, a new national cancer strategy, where the focus is on the elements that need to be developed. We Moderates are currently conducting intense discussions. We are also having major discussions about how we should take over the quite many regions where the Moderates rule after the elections. These are regions where queues are long and extensive and where the economy is often at the bottom. The honourable Member raised, among other things, Dalarna, and this is an excellent example of a county council or region that for many years has been severely mismanaged by Social Democratic representatives and where we Moderates know that we are facing an extensive challenge. We are therefore having many discussions, and they are very much about how to clean up and deal with the regions that have been mismanaged by the Social Democrats for many years. There are other conditions. There is now a single county council or health care region governed entirely by the Social Democrats, and I gave examples of what the economy looks like right there. There we are particularly concerned. There is reason to hold discussions within the Moderates but also between parties on how to address the big challenge that exists in healthcare.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-103	Madam President, I would like We are now going to debate the Social Affairs Committee's report 8, which deals with health issues. It is clear that there is a great deal of interest from Members of Parliament to discuss health care, which is a good thing. We also know that there is a great interest in health care among the citizens of the country. This report deals with 350 requests from the general period of exercise. As a result, the report covers quite a number of different areas of health care. This report also includes five announcements to the government, including the development of the choice of care in specialised outpatient care but also the extension of freedom of choice in inpatient care. This is fully in line with our policy to improve Swedish health care. Madam President, I would like In terms of medical results, Sweden is among the countries with the world's best healthcare. We'll be really proud of that. We also have very well-trained staff who are passionate about their work. Even when they sometimes work under very tough conditions, they do their best to ensure that we receive high-quality healthcare. I thank them very much for that. However, we also have very big problems, and this concerns the lack of accessibility that has been mentioned here before. People need to be able to trust that they receive care when they need it. But that is not the case today many times. Sweden today has long care queues where people suffer very badly and even, as we have heard, die because they have to wait too long. In addition, confidence in Swedish healthcare has fallen considerably in recent years. That's serious, too. This is mainly based on the fact that for many years there has been a downward spiral in accessibility. The care queues have been allowed to grow year after year without responsible politicians having any actual plan or response to how this development can be reversed. What concerns me in particular is that the number of people in care queues has increased dramatically in recent years. I would even say that the last few years have been lost years for Swedish health care when we see how many people are suffering in these queues today. I can also say in retrospect that the Red-Green Government has not managed to reverse this negative trend in queues. Instead, the situation has only escalated. We also know today that every third patient has waited longer than the 90 days of the guarantee for their treatment or surgery in specialist care. We are talking about nearly 100 000 patients who have waited longer than is permitted by the Health Act. Madam President, I would like In addition, the government's own authority warns that if nothing is done, half a million patients will be in line by the end of 2020, which is extremely serious. In fact, I was looking today at a few figures regarding the achievement of the objectives of the standardised medical processes of cancer care. And I can say it wasn't a funny reading. Let me give you a few examples. In the case of liver cancer, from diagnosis to treatment, it should be a maximum lead time of 36 days. But it turns out that only 33 percent of these patients receive treatment on time. When it comes to bladder cancer, only 12% of patients receive treatment on time. That, of course, is not good enough, Madam President. This is a huge failure for the whole of society. Above all, however, it is a disaster for the individual patient and the family members of the patient who are forced to endure this inhuman suffering. It should be remembered that for a cancer patient counts every day. Healthcare is about people's lives and health in a way that we unfortunately do not live up to today. It is unacceptable in a welfare country like Sweden. Madam President, I would like As this report covers health care in general, it covers many individual issues. It is difficult to address in detail all the important issues raised in the report. That is why I will choose something that we consider to be particularly important. The foundation of Sweden's health policy is that care should be available, of high quality and given on equal terms. That is why we, as a party, intend to reverse this negative trend for Swedish health care, especially with regard to queues. That is why in this report we are proposing a national health reform, which means a guarantee of patient rights that will strengthen the legal position of patients in healthcare. However, this will also mean that patients will receive faster treatment and will not have to stand in these chronically long care queues. Madam President, I would like I have great confidence that this proposal will make a real difference for patients, so that they receive a high-quality healthcare available. It should be remembered that long care queues are not a natural law that must exist. There are several other countries that have had similar problems as we have with long care queues, but they have managed to reverse this development through strategic work. This applies, among other things, to Denmark, which I have looked at and visited a lot. They have managed to reverse this trend, which means that they meet the time requirement and the monthly guarantee for almost all patients. In fact, Madam President, I believe that we politicians should be more open and take on board good examples from other countries but also from other parties. Something that I have learned during all the years that I have worked in health care, among other things, is that you should not always be sure that you are always in prison with all the answers and solutions to a problem. Often it can be really valuable to listen to what others have to say. Madam President, I would like Another issue in the report that we consider important and which I would like to raise here is palliative care. For us, it is important that everyone in need of palliative care, i.e. care in the final stage of life, should be able to receive such care by competent and well-trained staff regardless of their place of residence. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. There are major differences between the regions. Madam President, I would like In fact, one of the worst things a parent can experience is that one's child suffers from a severe illness. It's not really something you want to think about. Unfortunately, however, children also suffer from cancer and other serious diseases. And one in four children who suffer from cancer will die of their disease. Many of these families wish their seriously ill children to be cared for at home as far as possible. Then it is very important that there is access to teams for palliative home care regardless of where in the country you live, so that children and parents can feel safe with the medical treatment. But they should also be able to receive psychological support and advice in the extremely difficult situation in which they find themselves. It should also be remembered that not all families want their seriously ill children to be cared for at home. Then it is important to respect this desire and ensure that there are other possibilities. Today, there is only one hospice with five care places throughout the country for severely ill and dying children, which is too little to cover the great need. Parents who find themselves in this extremely difficult situation with all the concern it entails should not have to fight for their children to be entitled to adequate palliative care. It is supposed to be a right in Sweden today. Society always has a responsibility to be in place and support when you are at your weakest and sickest. This is the only way a welfare society can be characterised. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but I am only in favour of reservation 16.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-127	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Per Ramhorn for a very interesting speech. I also agree with a great deal of what he said. Not least, it is important that we work to improve accessibility in Swedish healthcare. However, I found parts of his speech a little too bleak. There are still some sparkles of light. For example, we can see how five-year survival in prostate cancer has gone up from 80 to 90 percent. It has also risen when it comes to breast cancer in recent years. So there are positive signs too, and it is important to include them so that the picture does not become completely black. During the exercise treatment that we had in the Social Affairs Committee, you withdrew two motions. Nevertheless, I would like to hear a little more about the reasoning behind this. I'm a little curious. One was about abortion rights, where several Swedish democrats have exercised to restrict abortion rights. The second was about freedom of conscience. However, I would like to hear whether there is a rethink on this point and that you are perhaps not as much against Swedish abortion legislation as before.
i-D93q9rBdDNaF9odRtKkTLd	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Dag Larsson! I will answer the question just as I answered when the Expressen asked me: a working group has been set up, and we are only in the initial phase. Therefore, I cannot reveal anything further in relation to that process; it is an internal work of the party. However, I can say so much that we should increase overall in the prevention of involuntary pregnancy. It's all over the line, that's all.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-130	Madam President, I would like From this I can only conclude that for those who want to protect Swedish abortion rights and do not think that it should be restricted, as well as for those who think it would be insane to introduce a system of freedom of conscience for health workers, the Swedish Democrats are not yet a party to trust. Because there is a risk that your athletes' opinion will continue to apply in the future, Per Ramhorn.
i-AFgACn7G3wvWd2oe7hRdwc	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer and, once again, the question, Dag Larsson! Well, the Swedish Democrats are a party to trust in many respects, both when it comes to health care and when it comes to issues in areas where the other parties have followed our policies. However, as far as the question of our internal work in the party is concerned, I cannot answer it. That work may continue internally.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-132	Madam President, I would like I shall then return to the Parliament's pulpit and debate what I think is one of the most important policy areas, namely health policy. It is an impressive report by the Committee on Social Affairs. The basis for this, of course, is the 350 proposals that have been tabled by Members of Parliament and which today have led to 110 different reservations. The fact that there is such a great interest in healthcare has its explanation: Swedish healthcare is fantastic, but we have a number of major problems in this area. These problems have become much worse because during the last parliamentary term we had a government which, in cooperation with the Left Party, was fully focused on one issue, namely getting profit-making companies out of welfare. As a result, the Riksdag was largely left with no proposals for reform. Health care is so complex and advanced that it requires continuous reform work. Therefore, we could see how primary care got bigger and bigger problems, that less than 50 per cent of Sweden's citizens had a fixed medical contact and that queues increased rapidly. Now there has been a big change. Now we have a government that has chosen to work with the Center Party and the Liberals to pursue a liberal and highly reformist health policy. This means that during this parliamentary term we will have a very high pressure for reform in a number of different areas. Bills will be delivered to the Riksdag, which will actually correct and ensure that the Swedish health care system is improved. There will be changes in three major and important areas in particular. One of these areas is primary care. Over the years, we have had major problems with Swedish primary care. Now there will be a proposal that means that we get a more clearly defined assignment for Swedish primary care and significantly better conditions to work in this crucial part of Swedish healthcare. The next area is the lack of accessibility, and steps will be taken to do something about it. This is a very big problem, Madam President, as several other speakers have described – queues more than doubled during the last parliamentary term. Now there will be a number of reforms and changes that will give us shorter queues. The third area is mental illness. Today, this is the disease group that is growing by far the most, and there too a great deal of innovation will be required. These are reforms that will make a difference for citizens – for patients – and that will redirect health care in a more positive direction. This report also contains proposals for a number of announcements by Parliament. I am very pleased that the Committee on Social Affairs, under the wise leadership of Acko Ankarberg, has managed to reach agreement on several important issues. This will not directly affect health care; it is orders for the government to deliver in areas where the committee has concluded that something must happen. This applies in particular to three areas where there is a great need for reform. One area is the encouraging development that we are finally beginning to be able to use modern technology in the form of digitalisation in health care. Here, Madam President, the development is almost exponential – it is enormous how fast things are going today, and we cannot imagine what will happen in another two or four years' time. It is about everything from the possibility of getting healthcare directly via their smartphone and that patients can describe their symptoms directly in the journal and thus register them to that in sparsely populated areas you can get an emergency room where you have direct contact with doctors via the internet to be able to handle severe diseases. The list can go on and on, but the problem we have is that the legislation puts an end to this. We have legislation that is out of step with time. Here we in the Committee on Social Affairs are clear that change is needed. We need to rapidly revise the current legislation and develop templates – clear guidelines – for what journals should look like in the digital field. This requires the government to act, and the Social Affairs Committee agrees. I'm glad to hear that. The next announcement that will be made is that we must ensure that we have freedom of choice throughout Swedish healthcare. Today, we have a patient law that gives patients the right to choose freely throughout the country – as long as it concerns outpatient care. However, as soon as it takes a bed to stay overnight in a hospital, patients are no longer allowed to choose. It has absurd consequences in the form of patients from Stockholm who have to go to Gävle to get neonatal care and then cannot choose to come back to Stockholm. They can't decide. They can't decide. They can't decide. This is an important step forward, and it is not least about getting queues shorter. If patients have the opportunity to actively choose places in Sweden where they have shorter queues, it will also shorten queues in reality. The third area in which the committee proposes an announcement is highly specialised care. One of the reforms that we actually decided on in the last parliamentary term was precisely that we would have a concentration of highly specialised care. When this question was discussed in Parliament, by the committee and then in the Chamber, the Parliament supported the Government's proposal that it was right to move forward and rather quickly concentrate certain parts of the highly specialised care. Here are the first proposals this spring. In committee, however, we were very careful that we have to have a regular report which follows up on the consequences that this will have. Even if it concerns only a few percent of the total Swedish health care, it is extremely important that it does not lead to the complete removal of the carpet for one or two of the smaller regional hospitals. Madam President, I would like Finally, there is an announcement that I and the Center Party have reservations about, and it is the announcement that healthcare choices in outpatient care should be introduced at national level. It is an idea that we in the Center Party had at the end of 2007 and 2008, and it led to the alliance government having Toivo Heinsoo investigate what this could look like. The draft law came to be called LOV E, and it was a proposal to force the county councils – the health authorities – to implement this in practice. We, and not least the consultation bodies, quickly realised that it makes no sense to force a model across the country. I want to be the first to say that it works perfectly in Stockholm and in many of the larger regions, but it has very difficult consequences not least in the smaller cities. Take, for example, Hudiksvall, where you have a gynecological day-to-day operation. A day-to-day on-call activity requires eight to ten specialists – who must then also be employed day-time in the form of a rather large outpatient within the hospital clinic framework. If one were to force a LOV gynecology in Hudiksvall from above the Riksdag, it would have the immediate consequence that the opportunities to operate around the clock would fall completely. That's why the Center Party is not behind that announcement. Of course, we support all our reservations. However, in order to gain time for voting, I only ask for reservation 33.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-150	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your speech, Anders W Jonsson! It seems that there are many of us here who share the concern that queues are growing and sometimes seem to be growing out of control. This means that the question of the queue billion that my party and Anders W Jonsson's party were involved in making sure that Sweden got part of during the alliance government and its new start and transformation now becomes so extremely interesting. If we meet and talk to our local politicians, which I assume we all do, even if some of us have changed some chairs, they'll wonder what's going on. My question to Anders W Jonsson, who is now at the table of power and can influence this, is: How are these negotiations going? Will we be able to see a performance- and result-oriented queue billions that guarantee that we focus on the right things? It is important that we do not get the old usual Social Democratic doctrine that we should just evict money, and then we see that there are no incentives to improve; we see that the money goes out and the queues grow. Madam President, I would like I would like Anders W Jonsson to describe what is happening and when we can expect the regions to get money so that it can start to become a workshop.
i-W6ChDnZQdsQ3BmLQa4PHaq	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for the question! The problem with the queues is one of the really big challenges we have. In the January agreement as well as in the budget decided by the Parliament and in the spring change budget, it is extremely clear that there are 1.6 billion dedicated to a performance-based, dedicated state contribution. Such a state contribution is not based on a simple government decision, but requires a negotiation with SKL. What will be required for that money to go out is that the Alliance, which is in charge of SKL, can agree with the government on the regulations for that. Given the strength of the Alliance in the SKL, and with the influence of the Center Party and Liberals in the government as part of the January Agreement, I am absolutely convinced that we will succeed in achieving a performance-based state contribution that will be made to the regions as soon as possible. It will make a difference even in this year. I would also like to raise a warning forefinger. Me and the Center Party think that the cue billion is oer heard important. But it is not the one who will solve the problem of queues. It has one effect. It is that county councils or regional authorities will give high priority to it. We need to do a lot more in this area. The second important reform is to give patients the power to choose. Me and the Center Party want a system where you as a patient get the information about how long the queues are and also have the opportunity to choose the place in Sweden where the queues are at their shortest. Today, we are withholding that possibility from patients. In addition, we have a patient law that means that if I choose to have my hip operated in Oskarshamn, the law says no because it is part of inpatient care. Reforms are also needed here. A lot of things are needed.
i-J1pZhvsRk7EqioUHDu6ngk	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anders W. Jonsson, for that answer. My first question is this: should I take the view of the honourable Member that we can feel confident that at the table of power at the moment there are discussions which mean that there will be a performance-oriented cue billions? One thing is to negotiate with SKL. That's where I know where our parties are. They will be strong and secure in negotiating a performance and performance-oriented queue billions. Another thing is what proposal comes from our Minister of Social Affairs. There I want to be sure that I know that discussions with the support parties are now moving in the direction that we will see such a proposal. This will significantly facilitate the negotiation with SKL. I'll turn to my second question. I'm a little concerned about another of my heart issues. It is about the national cancer strategy. There we have been in very constructive and good discussions within the former Alliance at national level. There I am concerned that the agreement between the Red Green Government and the support parties does not raise and value it higher. We have had a majority in this House on several occasions in which we have called on the government, in announcements, to take on a new and updated cancer strategy. We have also heard very highly valued organisations such as the Cancer Fund and the Swedish Childhood Cancer Fund, which have high credibility in this matter, pointing out how important it is. Now we see that in spring this has been removed as a priority. I would like to ask Anders W Jonsson: What does the Center Party intend to do so that this issue is put on the agenda in the way it deserves?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-168	Madam President, I would like I have to give a historical background to the cancer strategy. It was the alliance government that saw in 2007, 2008 that there was a great need for investigation. In the form of a government investigation, we have to go through the whole process of cancer and cancer treatment. This ranged from prevention, early detection, operat ion, treatment and rehabilitation to palliative care and care in the final stages of live ts. Everything at national level needs to be investigated to see how we can make the flow, the process, work much more effectively. The cancer strategy has been an incredible success. It has been through the careful mapping work that was done in the form of an investigation. I'm sure it took a year and a half to two years before you were done with it. The Alliance government made sure that there was always money to go into these areas and not least get to regional cancer centers. The strategy has been extremely successful. It is also clear that there will be continued efforts. We still have a number of very serious concerns in the area of cancer. Should I highlight one, I would say the rehabilitation side as soon as possible. When it comes to early detection, there are some minor things that we will be able to do. Vaccinations against cervical cancer are also important, as we have discussed. What I feel a great doubt about is that at the moment we are going to say that we are going to launch a new, large government investigation to map the whole one more time and get to a new cancer strategy and then be able to move on. Even now, with the little knowledge I have at once, I can point out which areas are where rapid action is needed. I want to immediately send in the money there and not set up a government investigation that again in peace and quiet, as we did ten years ago, will analyse the total Swedish cancer care. There, our parties probably differ in how we view the value of it.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-174	Madam President, I would like We have an amazing health care in Sweden. We're high ranking. We also have an amazing health care professional in Sweden. There are not many people who have highlighted the staff in the debate. I'll do that later. It's the one that carries care. It's all doctors, nurses, nurses, cleaners and so on. They're the heroes of care. Madam President, I would like I'm going to talk about equal care. That's the Left Party line. I'm sure you've heard that before. While other parties spend a lot of time highlighting the fine freedom of establishment in different ways, where health care companies can choose whether to knock down their bo stakes in Botkyrka or Östermalm, I will talk about equal health. I will also question the private health insurance which many parties support. In the discussions we have had in committee, we have heard that the bourgeois parties are still extremely interested in privatisation. It seems to be the cornerstone of your health policy; it is clearly visible. Sjukast first, it says in our portal clause for health care. Is that consistent with private health insurance or with the increased privatisation that I think we will see? It seems so in the 73-point program that the government has been working with the Centers and Liberals. I am concerned that the government has sat down in some kind of back seat, and the rest of you are pressing the accelerator on this issue. That worries me, because I do not believe that privatisation will in any way solve the problems of care. It will also lead to greater inequality; I am absolutely convinced of that. Madam President, I would like The statistics show that life expectancy is increasing both in the group that is 30 years old and in the group that is 65 years old. I'm glad to hear that. There is a specific group where life expectancy is increasing: among those with post-secondary education. Life expectancy increases least among those with only primary education. There is a group of permanent losers in terms of life expectancy, and it is women who only have primary education. Women of the working class are losers, Madam President. They're losers in life. Fair care is that no one should die in cancer queues, as in the Stockholm region in 2017. As you know, we can save 3,000 cancer parties every year if we have equal health. It's eight lives a day. Even those with thin wallet and short education should be entitled to the best care no matter where you live and who you are – woman or man. The Left Party has a proposal that we have taken up in motions and rewritten in debate papers. It is about offering health surveys to those in socio-economically vulnerable areas that do not go to the health care system very often. I'd better say this is voluntary, so you don't come up to the pulpit and yell about forced investigation. After the first contact, the person may be assisted by a doctor, nurse or psychologist – you name it. It's one way to improve your health. Madam President, I would like We must have more money for prosperity to make personnel investments throughout the country. We do not need any more tax cuts. I and the Left Party believe that it is not a health crisis we have in Sweden, but it is indeed a human resources crisis. You can see that in different directions. Today, one in three health care centres is closed in the Stockholm region. I do not think it is the queue billions that will reduce the queues and open up the care centres, but it is only staff efforts. It's about having respect for your staff. It is about increasing wages regionally, shortening working hours and improving the working environment for health workers. It is basic, and it is also the demands of the profession. That is also the requirement of the Left. No one is on the streets howling about cue billions or privatisations. Madam President, I would like I must highlight the Stockholm region, because I live here. New Karolinska Hospital is a hospital about which books and articles are written but which delivers less and less care. Think about it! The number of open care places has decreased by 30 per cent since reorganization. Deaths have been reported as a result of the lack of care. Doctors are forced to take more medical risks in their assessments. The difficulty in keeping care places open is about a lack of nurses. That's 1.5 billion in deficit, and 500 employees are getting out of the hospital. This is a scandal, a large-scale health scandal. This is of great national interest, because this is a university hospital that has a large bearing on the whole of Sweden. It costs to pay for your consultants and your friends. This is a national dilemma. I'm afraid the NKS is free. It is very sad for everyone who works there and for all patients who would need NKS. This isn't Stefan Lövven's fault or Hallengren. This region is governed by the Moderates, the Centers, the Liberals, the Christian Democrats and the Green Party, and I believe that this is a responsibility for the parties. An external investigation would have to be carried out here. Health care costs more in sparsely populated areas due to demography, distance and so on. Look at Gotland – they need their specialists! You can't take patients to the mainland every time you need them on site. Or look at Jämtland, Madam President, at its great distances! People in sparsely populated municipalities and in vulnerable urban districts usually have worse than average health, while those living in rich municipalities around the big cities have better health. In spite of many times higher levels of ill health, health care resources in vulnerable areas are often worse. So that we do not get an even more unequal health care, the Left wants the government to review the consumption of care in the regions in order to create more accurate economic governance. Madam President, I would like We also want to look at how the free choice of care and freedom of establishment have affected accessibility, the organisation of health care and equality. If I call my gynecologist in Stockholm – it could be any gynecologist, because I've looked around – I have to make a choice and get two questions. One question is: Do you have a private health insurance policy? The second question is, are you an ordinary mortal patient? Guess who gets to see the gynecologist first! Are the needs in control? Priorities in healthcare should be based on the equal value of all people, and resources should be allocated as necessary. That's what the portal clause says. There are many private providers of care that are also able to bring in insurance patients. Healthcare companies and insurance companies are very clearly connected. In a review made of 108 healthcare providers with contracts at the insurance company Länsförsäkringar it turned out that 62 of them had also received patients from the region's queue. A doctor can hardly treat two patients at the same time. You may think this is a tiny question, because only about 700 000 people have private health insurance. But I think this is very serious. This could lead to a erosion of the principles of care. We want to look at the influence of industry, insurance companies and health companies on health care and how the intentions of the Health Act can be guaranteed and patient safety maintained. Madam President, I would like I therefore lift, and I would like to endorse, reservation No 3. Digitalisation is fantastic, and it's fast, just like Anders said earlier here. We want society to take responsibility for ensuring that digital healthcare is also equal. We want the regions to take the lead, speed up and build on the infrastructure so that it is also interrelated. I feel like we've been talking about this for quite some time, and it's gone insanely slow. Primary care should be able to offer digital visits, Madam President, not least in order to increase accessibility in rural areas, where it can be far from close to a health centre. There should of course also be a physical reception. Today it is optional for the regions to offer the possibility to book visits via websites. We simply think that this should be compulsory. The Left wants to investigate how digitalisation in healthcare should be designed so that key words such as quality and patient safety are in focus. This is not always the case when Dr. Cash, i.e. the digital care enthusiasts, pulls off. For time to come, I therefore only call for reservation 3, but I naturally support all our reservations. I request that the other reservations be rejected.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-197	Madam President, I would like Can legislation be thoughtful? I was thinking about that a while ago. I think so. I think it can be thoughtful if it protects mentally ill people from care that does not work or even makes them sicker and poorer. Legislation can be thoughtful if it supports relatives instead of wearing them down and if it gives each person the opportunity to control their own lives, whether they are healthy or ill and whether they choose to work in health care or elsewhere. Then the legislation is thoughtful, as I see it. We Liberals have many proposals for people, whom I believe are important for this very reason. Some of them will become reality in the near future, and others we will have to work more for – at worst for a long time. Let me give you some examples of these proposals. First of all, through the January agreement, we Liberals have promised the citizens that a primary care reform will be carried out and that every person will have the right to a permanent medical contact. We have also promised to ensure national coordination of health care provision. It's the staff that's the health care. I hereby pledge once again to ensure that this is implemented stubbornly and perseveringly. Of course, we Liberals want more. We think it is important for those who become chronically ill to have a permanent health contact that you have to choose, who know you and who know your disease picture well. We want this person to be like a hub in the network around you, so that you can quickly get the right help when you have questions or if you get worse in your illness. For some, this contact may be a doctor's contact, but for others it may be better that it is a psychologist, a assistant nurse, a nurse, a physiotherapist or what you need. Just as important as security, we think, is giving more empowerment to the patient. Of course, not over what treatment you need – we have to trust that others know and can judge – but empowerment over their life situation even when you are sick. We want to make it possible to control more where in the country you get inpatient care when needed. It can be close to your relatives, or by all means in a place where you have heard a lot of good care. Tomorrow we are likely to take a major step towards this very thing. I would like to extend warm thanks to the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Center Party, who, together with us, have ensured that this hopefully becomes a reality and with which we put the proposal together. However, we Liberals want this empowerment, this opportunity to choose, to apply also to open care, specialist care. We believe that the law on freedom of choice in healthcare has meant a decisive shift in power from us politicians in regions and county councils in particular to the people who are actually affected, the people who are sick. We Liberals therefore want LOV to be broadened: the principle is that all care that is suitable for healthcare choices should also be offered in that particular form. That is why I am in favour of our reservation 33, Madam President, which deals with just strengthening the empowerment of the sick person. Of course, I support all our liberal proposals, but now that I have talked about security and empowerment, there are two more things that I would like to emphasise in particular in our liberal proposals. It is about quality, and it is about equality. Of course, quality is extremely important in health care, and it takes different things to create this quality, Madam President, depending on what health care we are talking about that very person needs. Sometimes the quality in itself can be that the care is close, for example at the kitchen table or in the jacket pocket, like data in an app or similar, or a bit away at a health centre in the city where we live. Other times, procedures, diagnoses or treatments may be complicated. V in Liberals believe that, despite a long journey, knowledge must exist for my disease. Therefore, we believe that the highly specialised care should be concentrated in a few places in Sweden. We also believe that, in the case of very rare diseases, it should even be concentrated in European specialist centres, Madam President. I will work on this with my Liberal colleagues. Then there's equality. If you are affected by illness, or you happen to have a wrong age when you are affected by it, you can get less security today. That's totally ridiculous! That is not how it should be done. Health care should only use methods that we scientifically know are effective and that are well-proven. Unfortunately, this principle is not self-evident when it comes to mental illness. There healing, homeopathy and obscure complementary methods can still thrive, and anyone can, after a few days' course, call themselves a licensed, certified or certified therapist of some kind. Mental conditions are not included in the Patient Safety Act's list of conditions that you need to have health care training to be able to treat. We want the Patient Safety Act to be amended to include these diseases. Age, again, is also, unfortunately, something that makes it possible to get worse care today. If you're too young or too old, you can end up outside. Take screening, for example. Today, if you are over 74, there will be no mammography to detect breast cancer. If you are under 60, there will be no rectal or colon screening to detect that cancer in time. Smer, Statens medicinsk-ethiska råd, has itself stated that this probably does not have its basis in fact but in that the studies themselves have shortcomings. We believe that we need to amend the legislation so that ethical considerations are taken into account in such recommendations. In this case, it would likely mean that the limit of mammography should be pushed up and the limit of when it is reasonable to have a rectal or colon screening pushed downwards. Another example of age – there are of course many – is that parents today can prevent their children from seeking treatment. That, of course, should not be the case. A sick person should be able to receive care regardless of his or her age. We therefore want to shift legislation from a parental perspective to a child perspective. Finally, Madam President, there is something missing from our legislation that I want to go as a thread throughout the health care system, and that is precisely the individual's needs with the individual person at the centre. We believe that this requires two additional things: firstly, a study on the future priorities of health care, which then regulates the priorities laid down in the Health Act, and, secondly, a new portal clause which states that health care should be based on the needs of the individual, not from a population perspective. It doesn't help me if I'm sick that 80% of the people with the same disease that I've been treated on time if I don't get it myself. We want people, the individual, to be put at the centre. All of this together, Madam President, we believe we are contributing to a more thoughtful legislation that will help and lift people even when they are sick. Madam President, I would like Sick people must be wearers today. The people who help these people in health care, the employees, must be wearers today. That is why I promise that I, too, will be a wear and tear and try to implement all these changes.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-218	Madam President, I would like I think Lina Nordquists's speech was very good. You're an extremely wise person who's right in a lot of your opinions-- I still want to say that, so that my question comes in the right light. I also believe that we share the view that it is important for people to be able to choose as far as possible which healthcare provider should take care of you when you are ill, when to be examined and such. I live in the county council and the region where they have gone the longest with these care choices in the system. In the case of gynecological clinics, where many women go to do examinations and other things, I can note that the carers have chosen not to establish themselves in southwest Stockholm. Between Liljeholmen and Södertälje there is a reception for residents of Botkyrka, the southwest part of Stockholm and parts of Huddinge – a single reception! In the inner city of Stockholm there are about twenty gynecological receptions.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-222	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the question. The beginning of the question was, of course, the nicest. But then to the choice of care: What we see in St.Okholm and the other larger regions that are densely populated is a problem that of course only gets bigger the more sparsely populated our country becomes. That is what makes us liberals think that an assessment must be made on each occasion: is this care suitable for choice of care? For something to be suitable for healthcare choices, we need to be able to define exactly what kind of care it requires. You should be as safe wherever you choose to go as a patient – that assessment ability I should not have when I am ill. We also need to know that there are enough patients to divide between several caregivers. Quality must not suffer from the fact that there are too few people in the area. As long as these things are fulfilled, we Liberals believe that it is about trying to screw up the replacement systems to make sure that it is exactly equal, that is, there should not be a dozen health centres or a dozen gynecologist clinics right outside my door while it is 12 miles to the nearest reception from my cousin's door. This can be achieved. It is about looking at the conditions, the compensation systems and the quality requirements.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-227	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lina Nordquist, for your answer. I think it was a very good answer that testifies to some form of social responsibility, and I hope that Lina Nordquist talks about this with her liberal comrades in the Stockholm region. In fact, this is what it looks like. The real freedom of choice for women in Botkyrka is much less than for women living in the inner city of Stockholm. Many of the women I meet out in Hallunda and other places in southwest Stockholm are also relatively poor and often can not even afford to pay for public transport. Many of them tell me that they have never been inside the inner city of Stockholm. So they really only have one clinic to turn to. In reality, the system has become an opportunity for care providers to choose where to be established. That is what makes me concerned by the proposal for an announcement that you have drawn up, which states that more of this kind of system should be applied throughout the health care system. I was involved in cleaning Göran Stiernstedt – he is relatively well known in this assembly and among people in general – who have worked a lot on healthcare issues. We asked him to make an evaluation of how the care choices have struck in Stockholm, and his view was that they are cost-driven and that they lead to fragmented care. The costs of healthcare choice systems have increased in the order of 5–10 per cent each year in the Stockholm region. It is extremely expensive, it drives the costs of healthcare, it leads to systems where hospitals find it difficult to compete if health professionals and it, in my opinion, leads to great risks of increased inequality in a care that is already characterised by too much inequality.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-231	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President. To begin with, I have a rather strong memory that there was a recent review of the compensation systems in primary care in Stockholm County Council, as it was then called. There you looked at what makes it narrower between health centres in some parts of the county but less crowded in others. The corresponding review should, of course, be carried out throughout Sweden and in all healthcare. As I understand the honourable Member, we share the view that the problem is not freedom of choice, but that in Botkyrka, Tärnaby and other places there is a lack of choice. The individual's empowerment should be as great as possible, and then, as I see it, it is about increasing self-power where it is too small and not to push it down in other places. Finally, as far as the costs are concerned, we also made searches in Uppsala County, and this has also been done elsewhere in the country. We also saw that the costs increased when care choices had been introduced, but the cost per patient was significantly lower. Of course, it costs more money to treat patients than to have them in a queue. I would like to say that when it comes to costs, you need to be very careful to see to what we mean by the cost rising. A patient who doesn't get care is the cheapest patient, but we can't have it.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-236	Madam President, I would like I have a few questions for Lina Nordquist. They touch a little what Dag Larsson asked about. Lina Nordquist talks about equality versus increased freedom of establishment and freedom of choice and how to get it together. In the Stockholm region and other regions, it can be seen that freedom of establishment means establishing oneself in the inner cities, because there patients are the most healthy. I'm quite convinced of that. Is it possible to avoid the misallocation of care? Before launching such reforms, an evaluation of the reforms that have been carried out over a number of years must be carried out. You can look at Stockholm. For twelve years, freedom of choice and freedom of establishment have been involved, and inequality has increased and not decreased. Do the Liberals not think that it would be best to make an evaluation before moving on to this line, which will now be done through today's decision?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-239	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. Of course there should be evaluations! There will be evaluations for changes, and there will also be evaluations after changes and when you have no intention of changing anything at all. It should be done to ensure that it is the facts that govern how we lead this country and how we lead health care at national, regional and, as far as home care is concerned, municipal level. That is absolutely the case. Then I have to say that increasing differences can be very bad. But it can also be something that is not bad. If Mr Rågsjö gets SEK 20 more and I get SEK 40 more, the difference between us has increased. Is it bad-- would it be better for none of us to get anything at all? I would like to say that if we set as a goal at the end of a term of office or in utopian, perfect health care that a sick person himself should be able to control his life as much as possible and always know that he is safe, then all our decisions will be accompanied by this goal. Then the facts and the goal of empowerment will guide us towards when it is appropriate for private actors to help us and when it is simply not an opportunity. The important thing for me is that sick people should be well cared for and not lose influence over their own lives when they are diagnosed.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-244	Madam President, I would like I have a few further questions. It's the sickest thing to do first. Is it not a little strange then that the health centres in Stockholm are established in such a way that those who are healthier have an increased availability of health centres compared to areas where they have a greater inequality and greater ill-health rate? Isn't that very strange? You in the Liberals have been responsible for developments in Stockholm for 12 years. Should nothing have been done about the increase in inequality? Madam President, I would like We have seen that the increase in privatisation has led to huge withdrawals of money. Capio has now been sold to the French company Ramsay. It broke down at 12.1 billion. The bottom plate is of course Swedish tax money. Should there still not be a limit to the ability of these companies to establish themselves in such a way that they can cash out the maximum amount of money? We all know that if Capio and these other large healthcare companies had established themselves in a completely different way in the Stockholm region – more in Skärholmen, Rinkeby, Hallunda, Botkyrka and so on – the withdrawal of money would have been less. Is it not this type of evaluation that should have prompted this decision and formed the basis for further privatisations? If you see inequality increasing with this type of system, shouldn't it be the brake itself, and you could think of something else wise? If it has been seen for twelve years that privatisations lead to a reduction in equality in the Stockholm region, there should still be a stop at some point.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-250	Madam President, I would like Thank you, honourable Member, for the questions. First of all, there have been changes to replacement systems – it may be a matter of adding the Care Need Index or the burden of disease – in order to ensure in different ways that the care is directed towards those patients who really need care and not towards people among us who want care but do not need it. That's the first answer. The second concerns welfare gains. This actually confuses me. What are the gains in welfare? What is profit from tax revenue? The electricity companies can sell electricity to hospitals and health centres, and they can collect as much profit as they want. Those who wash the clothes, the hospital blankets and the windows in the hospitals get to take out as much profit as they want. You have to make a profit from hospital food. You have to make a profit selling ambulances. That's lucky. Otherwise, we wouldn't have any ambulances. However, in the case of women-dominated professions that are closest to patients, profit should be prohibited. I do not understand the logic of Mr Rågsjö when she comes to that conclusion. We have gains in absolute prosperity, except in this particular one.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-254	Madam President, I would like What a solid competence is in this House. I would think that all of you who have been up in the speaker's chair before me have been working on these questions your whole life... amazing! That's why we can come up with so many wise things. So we are debating health issues today. The responsibility for these issues lies first and foremost with regions and county councils. But we also have a national responsibility. I have to say thank you to Dag Larsson, my social democratic colleague who has been county councillor in Stockholm for a very long time. He has been absolutely brilliant in this debate. I will not go into the depths of all health issues. Instead, I will try to raise my eyes. We have ill health in our society that is not just statistics and therefore not just a task for health care. Many conditions will probably always be present in healthcare even if progress is made. But there are also many conditions for which we have found remedies. This applies, however, far from everyone. Even if we live longer and can cure more diseases, we are in the very unhappy situation that our society and our lifestyle create ill health. A large and important part that shows that we are on the wrong path is mental illness. We just can't accept that mental illness is the most common cause of sick leave. But it actually looks like that. Recently, there were reports that 1 million people in Sweden are eating antidepressants. One million is quite a lot. Sweden is a rich country. We're high on the scale, no matter how you measure. We need to be able to do something different. It is particularly worrying that mental illness among young people is increasing. For example, the measured increase in antidepressants is thirst among children and adolescents. And v arst is it for girls. A v all girls aged 15 to 19 years have at some point in 2018 taken antidepressants. It is certainly possible to take other measures and arrive at those who need help sooner, so that it does not have to go as far as the need for medication, even if it is important in some cases. I am pleased that in the January agreement, the agreement with the Center Party and the Liberals, we have reached a point about working hard on mental illness. Psychiatry and pupil health should be strengthened. Children's and young people's psychiatrists will be queued-free. We will also investigate a new form of care where patients can quickly get help with easier mental illness. This is all very important and good. Those in trouble need help. They must be supported more quickly than they are today. Madam President, I would like In parallel, in a broader perspective, it is at least as important that we find ways to promote mental health and not the other way around. Some people will always feel mentally ill at different stages of life. It's life. But we have come a long way in our research and know that you can also lead a very good life, even if you suffer from mental illness. However, mental illness can also be counteracted. When you can do it, you should do the same. For example, an overpowering, stressful working life that is not being turned off seems to be a major reason why many feel bad today. The policy of the Green Party means that we want people to have more power over their time. We want to implement reforms that reduce normal working hours and increase people's ability to influence their working hours and working conditions. We are pleased that the issue of development time is included in the agreement we have reached with C and L. It will help people to change their way of life and work if they feel that they need it to feel better or for the simple reason that they want to change the direction of their working life. Madam President, I would like The way in which we live is clearly linked to sickness rates for ill health. Behind the sickness rates are people in the health care sector. There would be great benefits for both individuals and society if stress-related ill-health were reduced in society. That is why we also need to look at everyone who works in health care. They have a huge workload. We need to increase the opportunity for them to have a more decent working life. In addition, women are often affected. I would also like to say something about the climate linked to ill health. The extent to which young people's confidence in the future and optimism is damaged by the climate issue is difficult to say. But it's definitely there. Recently, a petition from 171 psychologists and psychotherapists called for an active solution focus in the adult world and decision-makers linked to the risk of rising mental illness in young people. The World Wildlife Fund and Trygg-Hansa have also carried out a study, although it was a few years ago. They then saw very high levels of concern in children between 11 and 15 years of age when it comes to climate change. It's not weird at all. The sense of context and meaning are incredibly important components. When such serious things as our entire existence are at stake, as we see it today, it is no wonder that many children and young people, including adults, are reacting. In fact, Greta is quite right in her criticism. It's going too slow. Nor is it a coincidence that Greta has become an icon all over the world. People worry. And there's reason for that. Madam President, I would like Equal treatment is also an important cornerstone of democratic society. It has to do with the trust and the tickle of our society. At the same time, there are clear challenges in this area. Therefore, the investigation that the government has set up, Governance for a more equal care, is very important. At the end of June, it shall report its final results and analysis. In other investigations, too, the issue has been raised. It is, of course, one of the most important aspects to bear in mind the changes we are seeing in health care. This is a multifaceted area that accommodates the near-simple care and the more qualified care. The responsibility lies with the regions. The Green Party sees opportunities for big profits if professionals can interact in new ways. If the research finds solutions to some of the major diseases, it can also change the conditions of a kind. Digital solutions should also lead the way. Here we have only seen the beginning of something that will revolutionize quite a lot. We also want to see developments in which patients and patients are increasingly involved in their own follow-up work. With those words, I would like to endorse reservation 32.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-275	Madam President, I would like In the 73-point programme developed by the government together with the Centers and Liberals, the queue billions return. I wonder how it can make health workers feel better and come back. It has turned out that there is a great deal of stress within staff groups. Economic incentives that make staff run faster increase stress. In what way, according to the Green Party, can queue billions promote the very shaky situation of staff in health care at the moment?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-277	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for a very important question! As you say, working in health care is very heavy and stressful. We have to deal with that. The embodiment is more aimed at faster access to care. The reason we are now presenting a new variant of the queue billion than the Alliance had until 2014 is that we saw that it failed. Most of the cases were taken care of when the statistics looked good. Now we will ensure that people with multi-sickness and chronic illness also receive better and faster help. You also have to work in other ways. The embodiment is intended for patients to arrive faster. What we are talking about is the structure of the entire health care system and about the need to invest more resources in those who work in health care. I am as bothered as Karin Rågsjö about what it looks like at Karolinska in Stockholm. There people are being fired, which is a scandal.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-280	Madam President, I would like I would just like to point out that the Green Party is on the Stockholm Region Board. This line-billion-dollar thing is always interesting. We have not seen the final version of your squeamish queue billions and wait with excitement for its appearance. The Green Party is part of the group that has developed the 73-point programme on what to do. However, it does not specifically mention the need for insanely large staff efforts. I think that's the key to getting the care to turn back to some kind of normal mode. The empty places, the long queues, the chaos in emergency departments, and so on are today a major human health crisis, more than a health crisis. Here, manifesting flows are needed into the staff. How long does the Green Party think we will have to wait before we see results and there will be more resources for the regions so that they can build a more patient-safe care?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-284	Madam President, Karin Rågsjö. I know that the Green Party is in charge of Region Stockholm. We have not done that before, but we are quite new there. The problems that have been raised with regard to Karolinska have been going on for a very long time, and then we have been in opposition. Investing in health professionals is also about getting more people to train and more to stay. It is also about structures and how to arrange the work, but also about the fact that we have had a very special situation this year. We have steered a napkin sketch until we were able to present a spring change budget. Unfortunately, it cannot cover all the cuts that took place through the napkin sketches. After all, it chose to invest more in reducing tax revenue rather than investing in health care, which is clearly needed.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-287	Mr President, I would like to On 27 April last year, a few months before the election, the Director General of the Social Insurance Agency, Ann-Marie-Marie Begler, was suddenly dismissed. The forms and reasons for this were already very unclear at the time. First, the responsible minister, Annika Strandhäll, claimed that there was a consensus between the government and Begler, something that was denied by Ann-Marie-Marie Begler herself. Annika Strandhäll then claimed that Ann-Marie-Marie Begler was warned during talks that would have been going on throughout 2017. There is no indication that this is correct either. When the Ministry of Social Affairs learned that protocols had been submitted to the media, the Social Insurance Agency was warned of serious consequences. In two letters, the former Director General, the former Chief Legal Officer and the former Internal Auditor at Försäkringskassan now writes with considerable precision why Annika Strandhäll's answer in KU's hearings cannot be correct. What has come to light is extremely serious. Everything suggests that Annika Strandhäll has dismissed a Director General for political reasons and then did not stick to the truth when this was to be explained. Many have asked for a truthful explanation, but Annika Strandhäll has not clarified the real reasons for the immediate removal of Ann-Marie-Marie Begler. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: can Stefan Löfven now, in this House, clear out once and for all the real reasons why the Director-General, Ann-Marie-Marie Begler, was removed from office?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-290	Mr President, I would like to As Ulf Kristersson well knows, work is under way within the Constitutional Committee on a number of issues, including this. I'm not going to precede that work. The Government of Strandhäll has explained to the Constitutional Committee how she views the matter and the reason for this. That's the deal. We are now awaiting the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. The answer is that, unfortunately, I can't do any more.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-291	Mr President, I would like to Parliament's confidence in a minister is not tested in the Constitutional Committee. I note that neither does the Prime Minister give any understandable or meaningful answer to the question that will sooner or later have to be answered. I ask my question again: what were the real reasons? Mr President, I would like to Parliament's power to dismiss ministers should not be used lightly. But Annika Strandhäll's actions undermine the integrity and independence of the Swedish state administration. These are things that usually happen in countries that Sweden usually criticizes. Mr President, I would like to Our patience is over. Our trust is exhausted. On behalf of the Moderates, we are calling in accordance with the rules of censure in Chapter 13. Section 4 provides that the Riksdag shall declare that Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll does not have the confidence of the Riksdag.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-294	Mr President, I would like to There is no answer other than what I have given. The Constitutional Committee is now dealing with the matter. We'll have to wait for that statement.
i-VWxWvwwozCNwaJvnzs1xPf	Mr President, I would like to On 26 May, there are elections to the European Parliament. One of the tasks of the European Parliament is to appoint the President of the European Commission together with the Council of Ministers and the governments of the Member States. Stefan Löfven has declared his support for the candidate Frans Timmermans. Frans Timmermans has expressed his desire to introduce minimum wages throughout Europe, which would put away the legs of the Swedish model of collective agreements. He has expressed support for giving the European Union the right to tax. He has expressed his view that the European Union should receive even more migrants coming across the Mediterranean. He has opposed the type of border controls that Sweden introduced to protect our society from systemic collapse in the wake of the migration crisis. My question to the Prime Minister is: how can the Swedish voters trust that what the Prime Minister and the Government claim to be working for in European politics is what they will actually be working for, when at the same time they want to give a great deal of power to people who stand for the very opposite of what the government says they are fighting for?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-298	Mr President, I would like to I just had lunch with Frans Timmermans. We discussed developments in Europe and, of course, what will happen in the next legislative period. Frans Timmermans has no proposal whatsoever to transfer any further decision-making powers from the countries to Brussels. On the other hand, like many others, Frans Timmermans is, of course, keen that Europe should be characterised by efficiency and a strong internal market with free movement, which is an asset for us in a world economy, but also by the fact that there is a social dimension in the way Europe works – it is, after all, the people that this Union is for. We're gonna make it better for people. But that does not in any way mean transferring power from the nations to Brussels. The answer to that question is quite simple: there are no proposals to transfer any additional decision-making powers to Brussels.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-299	Mr President, I would like to Frans Timmermans obviously says other things in public debates than he says at lunches with the Prime Minister. For example, to give the European Union the right to tax is, in my view, to move power to the European Union. Another issue, perhaps the most important issue in European policy at the moment, is the threat of an increase in the budget and the threat of a sharp increase in the Swedish EU levy of perhaps up to SEK 15 billion. It is something that would have devastating consequences for Swedish welfare, Swedish security and Swedish opportunities to fight crime, maintain effective border protection and so on. I wonder if the Prime Minister believes that the election of a federalist like Frans Timmermans will favour or disadvantage Sweden's efforts to hold back a budget increase within the Union.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-301	Mr President, I would like to I shall return to the question of supranationality. Frans Timmermans says that he believes that we need minimum wages in order for employees to have reasonable protection of how little they can earn, but not that it should necessarily be at European level. He would prefer it to be done at national level and that it should also be done between the parties. It is entirely according to the Swedish model. It strengthens the Swedish model. The debate on the budget will be very tough, but not because of Frans Timmermans, but for quite different reasons. The government has been very clear for two years that now that the European Union will have a member less, we simply have to adjust expenditure accordingly. We should not, of course, accept any large increases in the Swedish fee.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-303	Mr President, I would like to In the debate ahead of the EP elections, the major and rapid climate change, which will drastically affect the opportunities to live and operate on earth, has come to the centre. I'm glad to hear it. I'm glad to hear it. I'm glad to hear it. Unfortunately, however, another major and global threat has been obscured. In our newborn wards in Sweden, miracles are performed every day. We are the world leader in getting premature babies, some as small as 350 grams, to survive. But over the neonatal intensive care departments, a dark cloud spreads: bacteria that can no longer be combated with antibiotics. A number of children have already died. We in Sweden, Europe and the world must act decisively and quickly. Otherwise, we risk having a situation where diseases such as pneumonia will no longer be cured. In the worst scenario that scientists have developed, it is said that in a few decades there will be up to 10 million people dying annually because of antibiotic resistance. There are more than the number of people who die from cancer and traffic accidents. In the past, the countries of the world have been able to come together successfully around global agreements. I am thinking of the Paris Agreement 2015 on climate change. This has made a real difference. With concrete, binding targets, change can be achieved, and this must now also happen with regard to the second really major global threat to humanity, namely antibiotic resistance.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-308	Mr President, I would like to This is an extremely important subject. If things go wrong here, the risk is terribly great for serious consequences, so this is a subject well worth mentioning several times. What we need to do is to make sure that we in Sweden continue along this path and are extremely sparing with the use of antibiotics. That is where we are far ahead and set an example. The next step is, of course, the same in the European Union. The difference in the use of antibiotics, as Anders W Jonsson knows, is incredibly large, and we need to tighten the regulatory framework in order to achieve a more harmonised use, at a low level. I think I hear that more people are now being filled with this insight – that this is needed. We need to stand on in order for the EU to have a sharper regulatory framework and then also to use the EU as a platform in the global perspective, because this is a global issue. We will work as we usually do on these kinds of issues: Sweden, the EU, the world.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-312	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that the Prime Minister has understood how big the problem is. But my question is about what sharp measures Sweden can take. At the Swedish level, we are already at the forefront, as the Prime Minister says. But if we are to make a difference, as in the climate issue, we must bring this to European and UN level. It is about ensuring that we get a Paris agreement similar to what we have in terms of the climate. It is a question of ensuring at European level that we have stricter animal welfare legislation and tougher sanctions against those who do not comply. We must ensure that we can increase research efforts in this area and, not least, that we in the European Union can help third world countries that need support in redirecting their use of antibiotics. But what concrete, sharp measures does the Prime Minister see?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-315	Mr President, I would like to It is precisely on the shoulder that Anders W Jonsson addresses. If we ourselves are able to stand up for a regulatory framework that will keep down the use of antibiotics, we are also credible in the European debate. It is, as has been said here, about research in order to obtain the facts. Actually, we know; we have facts. But that is clearly not enough. They can also be sanctions. We need more stringent measures. It is necessary to reduce the use of antibiotics. Otherwise, we have a difficult time ahead of us, and we must ensure that we avoid that. This may well be about the measures that Anders W Jonsson mentions, and also about others. Let us keep the focus on really doing something and on keeping antibiotic use down.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-318	Mr President and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven! Inequality is increasing in Sweden. Moreover, this year's state budget means that taxes are reduced for those who earn a lot, while important reforms that the Left Party achieved during the last parliamentary term are now disappearing. These include the right to deduct trade union fees, which benefit many people with low incomes, 2 billion annually to care for the elderly who have disappeared and also a series of reforms such as bus cards and summer holiday activities for children around Sweden. Also next year, the government plans to increase inequality with the removal of defence taxes for those who earn the most, while the money is now not enough for welfare. Now it is cut in care and school around Sweden. This inequality harms Swedish society. It limits people's possibilities. In addition, it becomes more difficult to bring people into the necessary climate change if you feel that not everyone is helping each other. When the rich get reduced taxes, they can buy more cars, make more flights and increase their emissions, while ordinary income earners, not least in rural areas, feel that petrol is becoming more expensive, that the private economy is scarce and that welfare does not always live up to what we want. Mr President, I would like to My question to Stefan Löfven is therefore whether he is satisfied with the government's distribution policy. Is it fair?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-322	Mr President, I would like to Reduced inequality is A and O in a society. That is why, in cooperation with the Left during the last parliamentary term, the government presented budgets that very clearly gave the most to those with the lowest income. This can be done in many different ways. I am the first to say, and have said openly in the past, that if I had had my own majority and had the power to decide for myself, we would not have removed the defence tax. However, in the overall agreement in January, we have also ensured that we have a whole package of reforms for equality. First of all, it is about the general focus on welfare. We now add another 5 billion each year to the country's municipalities and county councils. They should, of course, be used for welfare. A general welfare that works for all is an important instrument of equality. We are making a special effort on health care and at school. We are removing the unfair pensioner's tax, and we are going to increase the pensions of those with the lowest pensions, and so on. In addition, we will work on a tax reform, one of the aims of which is to reduce the increased economic disparities in our country. We are going to carry out a green tax shift, where it is important for me to ensure that people are not left with the bill and the concern in the transition we need to make. We're going to show that we're doing this together. We have to raise the price of carbon dioxide and emissions, but this is, of course, to be paid at the other end so that people feel secure in coping with this. We will make it easy for people to do the right thing, and this includes financial support to be able to do the right thing.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-327	Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what the Prime Minister says, not least that during the last parliamentary term we conducted a conscious policy of reducing the gaps between men and women and between those who have a good and scarce economy. The problem, however, is that despite what the Prime Minister says here, the opposite is happening. The distribution profile in the government's spring change budget is almost as poor as in the M-KD budget. It's just going the wrong way. Both the Prime Minister and I know that if the military tax is removed, the money will not be enough for the necessary investments in welfare. It's not just those who earn the most. It is the big cities that win and the countryside that loses. Not many people pay military tax there. That's where the Arbetsförmedlingen's office is closed down instead. This is the government's policy, no matter what the Prime Minister says. My question remains: can we be satisfied with this kind of policy, which actually benefits those who are in the absolute best position but who are at a disadvantage to many low-income earners?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-331	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that we ensure money for general welfare and raise the contributions to municipalities and county councils regularly, by 5 billion each year. It is a good thing to invest heavily in health care and in school and to raise the lowest pensions and remove the unfair pensioner tax. It is very good to expand broadband around our country. It is good to build railways and roads and to have money to renovate the roads. It is good to invest more money in people getting into work. The more people get into work, the less inequality. Individual elements of the taxes Jonas Sjöstedt knows what I like. That's what I'm open about. But we're also going to talk about a tax reform. If Jonas Sjöstedt thinks that the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats are just as good, that surprises me greatly. But that's the alternative.
i-45C1eRbYx7uonLZDCYLLTo	Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council. Last year about 8,000 rapes and attempted rapes were reported to the police. This figure therefore only describes reported offences. At the same time, it can be seen in the National Security Survey that the proportion of women in the age category 16 to 84 who reported that they had been exposed to serious sex offences in 2017 was 2.3 per cent. This indicates a very large number of sexual crimes in the dark. Many women do not dare or simply cannot report. There are about 4 million women in Sweden between the ages of 16 and 84. This means that nearly 100 000 women in this age group were subjected to a serious sexual offence in 2017. The NTU is interviewing 200,000 people. The investigation is conducted by the Government's own authority, the Crime Prevention Council. Brå himself writes that based on the results of the survey, conclusions can be drawn for the entire population in the age category 16 to 84 years. I find these figures on sex crimes quite shaky, as I also expressed in the party leader debate in Agenda the other week. Your Minister, Annika Strandhäll, has argued, among other things, that I somewhat loosely throw myself away with statistics and that I thereby cause anxiety and misunderstandings. On Twitter, she shared an article with the title, "Is Ebba Busch Thor knowingly lying or is she completely ignorant?" .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. One could easily return the question itself to Strandhäll, which is a little extra pikant in view of the discussions currently being held on her in the Constitutional Committee. My question to the Prime Minister of Sweden's feminist government is twofold and reads: Does the Prime Minister share the view that there is a large number of black spots when it comes to serious sexual crimes, and is there any other statistics that are more reliable than the one that Brå presents?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-341	Mr President, I would like to Whether there are any other statistics can hardly be regarded as a general policy issue. But we still need to keep up to date so that we know what's going on. Unfortunately, we know very well that there's an incredible amount of women-- is there one in four or one in five? – who are victims of violence, both rape and other violence, also in close relationship. This is not acceptable. For this reason, the government has decided on a strate gy against men's violence against women. Of course, this also includes rape. What we have to do is to ensure that we have tightened up legislation in this area. We have also introduced a new rule which means that more will be convicted of rape. We have already seen the effect of this. I hope it also has a preventive purpose. We will also strengthen the police so that the evidence that needs to be taken into account in order for it to lead to a conviction can be taken into account in the past. The training of prosecutors will be strengthened as well as the competence of the courts to judge in this type of case. We can never ever accept rape or other violence against women at all, of course. I think that together we can find more to do to strengthen that work. That is absolutely necessary. We have adopted a long-standing strategy. That's what we're going to do. We're going to go through with it. We're going to work on it. Women should not feel threatened or subjected to rape at all.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-347	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his intervention, which I very much agree with. But I still think it's a fairly general question whether the Prime Minister agrees that there is a large number of dark spots when it comes to serious sexual crimes and if the Prime Minister agrees with Annika Strandhäll's statement that my use of Brå's statistics and the National Security Survey would be a little loose with statistics. And if so, is there any other statistics that the Prime Minister thinks should be used instead of Brå's national security survey? The Christian Democrats are behind the Moderates' motion of censure and the initiative they have taken today. Our confidence in Annika Strandhäll is exhausted. But there are many reasons to raise the question of the Prime Minister's confidence in Annika Strandhäll, in the light of both the motion of censure and of this action and her statement on Brå.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-349	Mr President, I would like to First of all, at any given time, the Prime Minister has confidence in his ministers until otherwise stated. It's just about done. As far as statistics are concerned, I am absolutely convinced that there is a figure of darkness. However, I do not know how big it is, and I do not know exactly what statistics are right. Unfortunately, there is also in close relationships both violence and sexual violence. It is a tragedy in itself, and that is why we need to work as strategically and purposefully as we can and to ensure that health care, the police and all parts of society are helped to overcome this and to put an end to men's violence against women.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-352	Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council. The European elections are approaching, and it is becoming increasingly clear that we all have a political responsibility to link the countries of Europe closer together. That is why, of course, it is gratifying that the EU sees the Copenhagen – Gothenburg – Oslo train route as a special priority. I know that the government has been instrumental in this. It is of course important for the Västra Götaland region, which is a logistical hub for the whole of Sweden with freight traffic through the port and across the Norwegian border to Oslo. That is why my question is: if the EU is giving priority to this route – it is obvious that the EU is doing so – how is it that it is not a priority in the national infrastructure plan?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-354	Mr President, I would like to A national plan has been adopted for future investment in infrastructure, the largest ever, I know. There are an enormous number of worthy projects to invest in. As was said here, the West has also got a part of this, as it should, not least the dredging of the entrance to the port of Gothenburg. It is extremely important to have a good port that can both send and receive goods. Other improvements are also being made in the plan, and much has been done to date. The western part of Sweden, like the rest of Sweden, will have its share of the infrastructure investments. It's extremely important. Then we will not have room for everything, and I will not be able to do all the projects included in the national plan. But it is clear that the infrastructure investments we make will apply to the whole of Sweden.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-356	Mr President, I would like to This is, of course, extremely urgent. The Västra Götaland region is a logistical hub. There is now more transport over the Svinesund Bridge every day than over the Öresund Bridge. They're not on rails. They're on deck. This is extremely urgent to fix, I feel, not least in view of the climate challenges we face. Is it not possible, in the next revision of the plan, to raise public money, or can we open up alternative financing for infrastructure projects?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-358	Mr President, I would like to Investment in infrastructure is aimed, among other things, at transferring as much freight as we can from road to rail. In addition, the roads will always be needed. Truck transport will also be needed, because we do not have railways everywhere, and then we must ensure that these transports are as clean as possible and that the trucks are as clean as possible. I will not comment on any change in the current plan. That discussion may be conducted in a regular manner.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-361	Mr. Talma n! Before entering Parliament in 2014, I worked as a professional officer in the army. It is therefore with some excitement and rising surprise that I follow the tours of the Defense Committee and its report. With the exception of military service by the bourgeois parties, with the smallest possible majority in this House, defence decisions have always been taken in broad political agreement. This time there is also a unique consensus between the eight parties in Parliament that the defence needs to be given more resources. There is even agreement on the scale of these needs. Yet four parties choose to indicate their rejection. The defence committee has identified the needs of Sweden's defence. At the same time, we know that the population is getting older. We know that the care queues are too long and that too few crimes are cleared up. My question to the Prime Minister is: how does the Prime Minister view the conflict between different needs? And what areas does the Prime Minister see that we need to invest in the future?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-365	Mr President, I would like to We are grateful for the work that has now been done in the Defence Committee. We now have a united approach to the content and direction of this. I also think it was a pity that not all parties wanted to sign, when this unity exists. In fact, we will still have to make a very careful analysis of this. We need to do this for the reason that Erik Ezelius points out, namely that society has many different and really great needs. We need to improve for pensioners. We have far too many pensioners who are in too rough a position. Of course, care for the elderly must also be improved. We have a medical facility that doesn't deliver what it's supposed to deliver. School needs to get better. We're gonna build roads. We're gonna build railroads. We're going to expand broadband. We're going to build houses. I mentioned health care, but it's also about psychiatry. So there are endless needs. For this reason, we need to put all the needs next to each other and see: How should we prioritise?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-369	Mr President, I would like to It is a strong political focus on the capacity of the police. It is, of course, extremely important and central. When the police are given more resources and become more efficient, combined with raising a wide range of penalties, we must also ensure that the Prison Service has the resources they need to carry out its mission. It is an extremely important crime prevention authority, but it is also an authority that is under great pressure. When I visited the Fosie Institute a couple of weeks ago, they told me that they have double coatings, and that's how it looks all over the country. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister what measures the Government intends to take to improve the ability of the Prison Service to fulfil its mandate, not least from the perspective of more young adults being sentenced and of having the opportunity to come out better equipped after serving time.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-371	Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, aware of the strained situation of overcrowding and that it is challenging for the Prison Service. This has to do with the fact that there are now more police officers and that we have tightened the penalties. It is clear that, last and last, it produces results. In view of this situation, we are in close dialogue with the Authority to see what measures are needed to deal with the situation here and now. We have also contributed SEK 335 million in our amending budget to the Prison Service. It is clear that the relapse prevention work in the Prison Service is important. This strategy is being developed on a daily basis. We have also given a mandate to the Prison Service to work on exactly this: to prevent people coming back.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-375	Mr President, I would like to I have the privilege of bringing two young ladies with me this week, Amanda and Ebba, from grade 8 in Stenbacka School in Asarum, north of Karlshamn, in Blekinge. They are sitting up in the gallery and, via me, want to raise a very urgent question for them with the Prime Minister. In Sweden there is a shortage of teachers, which means that the teachers that exist do not have the time to give all students the support and help they need in school.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-377	For example, we in grade 8 do not have a qualified physics teacher, but the headmaster is allowed to give our grades. Next year we graduate from primary school, and our final grades will be posted. There are many students who are worried about it, because we lack teachers who can help us. A major reason for the lack of teachers is the pay or unrest in the classroom.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-379	Mr President, I would like to To Amanda and Ebba I will say the following: it is a work that has begun, but we have to hold on, because we still have a shortage. We're strengthening teacher training. This is about more teacher-led time in education. We will increase the quality of teacher training so that it becomes even more attractive. We will make it possible for more people, such as engineers who have a knowledge in one area but not in educational education, to get an educational education more quickly and quickly into the teaching profession. Of course, it is also a question of preferably recruiting back teachers who have chosen to quit. More people are being hired, both teachers and other adults at school, allowing teachers to spend more time with the students. That's what it takes. It is about improving teachers' conditions with a substantial addition to the teachers. Trade unions and counterparts have had to negotiate how it should be distributed. Tens of thousands of teachers have been paid more, because we want more teachers.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-383	Mr President, I would like to I am sure the Prime Minister has heard of the enormous frustration that exists in our country over the flashing fuel prices and taxes. Over half a million people, including many in my group, have signed the petrol tax rebellion. The car is Sweden's most important means of transport. More than half of the Swedes depend on the car today to make their lives go together. At the same time, we know that rural motorists pay more than their environmental costs. Unfortunately, we have in Sweden, may I say, a law that means that fuel taxes in addition to inflation each year should be listed by 2%. That tax fine will strike again next year unless the government acts. My question to the Prime Minister is simply: is the government prepared to listen to the enormous frustration of all these people and promise reductions in fuel taxes, or is it at least prepared to promise no tax shock next year?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-387	Mr President, I would like to Let's start with the budget. The Swedish Democrats have been involved in voting through a budget that will bring this back next year. You made a one-year break in the higher indexation. The Swedish democrats have therefore stood up for it to come back next year. Fuel prices and developments are now mainly related to two things, let me say. One is the supply of oil. With the crises we see in the Middle East, Venezuela and so on, the supply of oil is falling. Then the price increases. The second is the currency. That's the decision. We should not leave individuals in the lurch in the transition that will be absolutely necessary. If there is one thing this shows, it is that we should get out of the dependence on oil and fossil fuel and find another way to drive. I come from the countryside and know the importance of driving a car, but we should make it cleaner.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-390	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Prime Minister about what the government thinks about EU tax law and CO2 but also about what the government thinks about EU foreign policy. Every thing has its place. Each decision shall be taken at the place where that decision is best taken. But carbon dioxide and other gases that destroy our climate and confront mankind with the greatest threat mankind may ever face are moving across borders. Should we not then be able to make decisions across borders, together in Europe? The same is true of democracy and universal rights. Should not the EU, without individual countries being able to block it, ensure an offensive policy for human rights and democracy throughout the world? This is also a cross-border issue.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-394	Mr President, I would like to As far as the right to taxation is concerned, we believe that it lies with the nations. I think it's right to keep doing that. That is the first point. This does not mean, however, that we do not have the tools and means to use to reduce emissions. Emissions trading provides a mechanism to reduce the number of emission allowances that push up the price. The Swedish Government itself has cancelled quite a few allowances and in this way made sure to print up the price. Now we see that the price has increased quite dramatically. Let us continue along this path, although there are certainly other ways of increasing the price of emissions. As far as foreign policy is concerned, it must be said that there will be no agreement whatsoever to increase the mandates in the field of foreign policy. The EU is our most important foreign policy platform, and we will use it more. But I don't think we're getting any more mandates.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-398	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask an economic question about the Swedish defence. My question is based on something called gross domestic product, which is usually shortened bnp. Now I also turn a little to our young visitors in the gallery. I still remember when my social science teacher in the 80s, Åke, taught us what bnp was. He was very educational, and it got stuck. Bnp is thus the total value of all goods and services produced in a country. Bnp looks different in different countries, and it can swing quite quickly. Many believe that we should have a certain percentage of bnp – 1.5% or some other level – set aside for the defence.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-403	Mr President, I would like to Percentage of GDP may be a way of comparing the military ambitions of different countries, but it has obvious flaws. That is my firm opinion. About military ability, it says very little. It focuses on how much money is put into the military defense, but it does not say anything about the ability. In addition, it may be that you count this in very different ways. How much of the defense costs, directly or indirectly, do you actually put in? We also know that there are countries, such as Greece a while ago, which had been sinking bnp for a number of years. If you lie down then only with the grant for the defense, it looks as if the share of the bnp actually increases and that you make a substantial effort, which you do not do. So it's blunt. It may be interesting to measure this, but the most important thing is the ability of the Swedish defence.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-408	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! The Prime Minister said it was a pity that the parties could not be united in the Defense Committee. For a number of years, a number of defence arrangements have been negotiated in Sweden across party and block borders. Every time the Moderates have proposed a level, the Social Democrats have dismissed it in terms of envelopes. The Minister of Finance today spoke in a newspaper interview, where she says that it is a matter of prioritising and that it is like a ten-year-old who asks himself: ..................................................... Then my question will be: Does the Prime Minister share the Swedish Defence Committee's assessment that at least SEK 84 billion is needed for the defence in accordance with the direction you want, or not? Has it ever been the Social Democrats' idea at all to arrive at these 84 billion? Mr President, I would like to What we're talking about is national security. It's not a movie ticket, and it's not a candy bag!
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-413	Mr President, I would like to The government's whole idea of the Defense Committee is to strengthen the defense. It is not to arrive at a specific amount, it is to strengthen the defence. Now the Defense Committee has done a job. We are grateful for that. There is agreement on this approach. What we are saying, and that is the most natural thing there is, is that now this work is done. Let us now carry out an in-depth analysis of this, and then the Swedish Armed Forces will have to carry out an impact assessment. Anything else would be extremely strange when you put forward a proposal which represents a cost increase of 26 billion. Would we just take it and say that this can go? I also note that in a discussion in the past, Wallmark has described the funding requirement as a yoke made up to cool the atmosphere in the room. That was Wallmark's comment on a debate on financing. Everything must be financed, including reinforcements of the defence. We're going to strengthen the defense. Let us come back this autumn about the exact direction.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-419	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! Right now we have a great deal of commitment around the country. There are many manifestations going on. All people are motivated by their own situation, based on their upbringing and living conditions. Many young people are committed and manifesting for stronger climate ambitions and stronger policies. Many rural people feel threatened and are therefore committed to rural conditions. Many car users are committed to reasonable fuel prices. Everything is fully justified from each person's own situation. The former S-government made many long-term proposals to secure rural areas. A number of proposals were also made for new biofuel production, for example. My question to the Prime Minister is: can these ambitions be reconciled with investments in forests and biofuels to enable rural transport needs?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-423	Mr President, I would like to I'm absolutely convinced that's possible. We are enriched with the green gold in our country, and it is clear that it can be used. We have to change, once again, and I think the vast majority of people agree on that. But we are going to do it in such a way that the individual does not get caught and say that now it is I who bear the burden. We'll carry it together. Then, of course, we can develop biofuels and drive on them. I have driven a lot of cars in Norrland and want to continue to do so, especially in Ångermanland. But I want to clean it up. It is clear that with this wealth around the country, we can both add more clean fuel to vehicles and transport while developing rural areas. The forest is not in Stockholm city. It's out there in the country, and it means a lot of work for the countryside. I'm looking forward to that.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-427	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! We are now seeing a worrying development in Kiruna municipality that risks the entire urban transformation and that in the long term affects the continued operations and survival of the state mining company LKAB. There has emerged a distrust in Kiruna as to whether it will pursue the plan that all functions of society that are being dismantled in the city's old centre will be built up in the new city. In frustration that, among other things, railway extraction and the associated central railway station have not yet been agreed upon, Kiruna municipality is threatening not to approve LKAB's detailed plan application, which will lead to the mine stopping. I believe that the government must enter the escalating conflict and, as owner of LKAB, ensure the security of Kiruna residents. Against this background, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he is prepared to appoint a State coordinator to ensure the continued urban transformation and secure LKAB's future.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-431	Mr President, I would like to Kiruna and LKAB are extremely important to our country, and the government has, of course, been involved in this discussion. I know it, but not in detail. It is clear that this is a balance between ensuring that we can have rational mining in Kiruna – because it is good for us – and the urban plan that needs to be made for the large relocation and so on. Unfortunately, I have no knowledge of all that is included in this. Of course the government should be committed. Whether there is a need for a coordinator, a coordinating woman or anything else, I will not answer here and now, but it is clear that the government has a commitment to ensure that we have a situation where both of these interests can be combined. This is of great importance not only for Norrbotten and Kiruna but for the whole of Sweden.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-435	Mr President, I would like to Women and men must be treated equally and have equal opportunities in all areas, including labour market participation, employment conditions and career development. Women and men shall be entitled to equal pay for equivalent work. Children must be entitled to affordable and high-quality preschool and childcare facilities. Women and men shall have equal opportunities to acquire pension rights. All older people have the right to resources that guarantee a dignified life. What have I read out? Well, there are some of the 20 points in the EU's social pillar. Several parties and politicians now claim that the social pillar threatens the Swedish model. That is why I ask the Prime Minister, who was also very much involved at the summit held in Gothenburg, where decisions were taken on the social pillar: is the social pillar threatening the Swedish model?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-438	Mr President, I would like to No, it doesn't. The whole starting point for the discussion, when it began, was that we have the decision-making powers we have at national and European level, and they should not change. Of course, if the free market and mobility are to work, people must feel that, first and foremost, wage earners should not be put against wage earners. That's not what competition should look like. In addition, there must be social security in an economy that is constantly changing. The social pillar therefore focuses on three areas. One area is how to ensure that everyone has equal access to the labour market. We know that there is a huge profit to be made, also economically, if women have the same access to the labour market as men. The second area is that the jobs should also be nice. These are supposed to be fair terms and, of course, decent wages for those jobs. The third area concerns social protection in addition. How do we help to reset? Then these parameters are compared to each other, and countries learn from each other and move forward positions without more supranationality.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-444	Mr President, I would like to During Stefan Lövven's time as Prime Minister, rapes have increased, while both the proportion and the number of reported rapes that have led to prosecutions have decreased. The statistics also show that the number of women murdered by a loved one has increased. Last year there were 22 women, and that is the highest figure in many years. The debate on higher penalties has been dominant in Swedish criminal policy in recent years. The government has carried out some punitive measures, but no proposals have been put forward to increase the penalty for rape of the standard grade to three years in prison or to increase the penalty for gross female poverty to one year in prison. Why has the feminist government, the Prime Minister, not put forward any proposals to increase the penalties for precisely these crimes that affect women?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-447	Mr President, I would like to Violence – not least sexual violence – against women is extremely serious for our country. That's why we need to work systematically. We have adopted a ten-year strategy that includes all violence, and we will continue to ensure that the police, health care and social services have the resources. The Government and the Riksdag have adopted a consent law and also introduced something called negligence. The law has already proved to be working. You shouldn't be able to say afterwards that you didn't know it wasn't okay – and get away with it. Now you don't do that either. Now more and more people are going to fall. I am absolutely convinced of that. We are not satisfied, but we must continue to work consistently. The laws that need to be changed will change, and the rapes will stop.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-451	Mr President, I would like to In the election movement came Stefan Lövven's election soda, namely an extra family week. Sweden has twice the cost of parental insurance as the OECD average. Politics are priorities, and family week is a clear example of a bad one. Where is the money going to be taken? It displaces the funding of the defense. It's taking money from the police. Sick people do not receive care on time. Entrepreneurs may cease their activities because they are victims of crime. Is it really more important, Prime Minister, with the election fresco, that healthy, able-bodied people should be free for a week instead of ensuring the security of citizens to get the support and help they need?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-454	Mr President, I would like to We're gonna do both. I was at the TCO Congress the other day. They've been pushing the demand for quite some time. Officials believe that they have to work hard in a society where the time limit between work and leisure time is also becoming increasingly blurred. This is true of more and more people. Then, to make sure that parents have more time with their children, I think is good and reasonable in our society. I do not put it against the defense or the police, but one might wonder how the Moderates can afford such huge tax cuts. They are looking at further major tax cuts which, unfortunately, will take place at the expense of this type of effort. As soon as it is a matter of something social, the Moderates seem to be having a very difficult time with that effort. I will ensure that there are efforts on the police and defence and that kind of security. But there should also be social development. Parents and children should be allowed to spend more time together.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-458	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has more than half a million law-abiding shooters. Most of them are hunters, and some of them are scorers. Sweden is also a successful country in dynamic shooting. The hunt is not only part of our environmental management, it is also a broad and historically rooted Swedish peoples' movement. Now, however, both hunters and sportsmen are threatened by the Swedish government. With the EU weapons directive as a cover, the government is preparing a bill that will significantly complicate legal ownership of arms and will hit both hunting and sporting. The government's legislative referral is far more far-reaching than the EU arms directive. Is it really the country's hunters and sportsmen, the Prime Minister, who are threatening safety in the streets and squares? If not, why does the government go further than the EU weapons directive requires?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-461	Mr President, I would like to There was a long discussion on the arms directive, which also changed during the journey. My father was a hunter, and he was hunting moose. The hunters are also doing a fine job. That also applies to sportsmen. But let us think for a second and review what the proposal actually contains. It is not that there should be no opportunities for hunters and sportsmen in the future. At a time when there are such enormous problems with shootings and violence, to which these people are not guilty, I think we may still need to think about how we can ensure that there is more control of the possession of weapons. It's not harmful to either hunters or sportsmen.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-465	Mr President, I would like to There are high demands on the Swedish labour market in terms of reasonable wages and working conditions. At the same time, however, there is lawlessness where too many employers violate laws and regulations. Then there will be poor wages and poor working conditions. There are examples where people are forced to sleep at their workplace, where construction workers are high up on the roofs without proper protective equipment or where drivers in the transport industry do not get the rest and sleep they need to function safely. We can see that several sectors are vulnerable. Two examples are the construction and transport sectors. The question is how to get to this. We have the Swedish level but also the European level, and there is mobility in the labour market. What can we do to combat the crime we see in the Swedish labour market?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-468	Mr President, I would like to Companies with cheating as a business idea should have no place on the Swedish labour market or in the Swedish economy. The government has taken a number of measures to put an end to unhealthy competition and to crime, as it is many times. We have, among other things, ensured that foreign employers who have staff in Sweden should pay employers' contributions and register with the Swedish Tax Agency. After several years of cuts, the Swedish Work Environment Authority has received more resources so that you can hire more and do more checks. The police's work on spot checks has also been facilitated, and they themselves testify that it has been helpful. We have also made sure to give a special assignment to the Swedish Work Environment Authority to strengthen the work to combat unhealthy competition. We will have to do more at European level for better rules there.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-475	Mr President, I would like to Young girls in Sweden are mentally ill, and women suffer from mental illness because they do not get their life situation together. Sweden has the world's healthiest population. Even so, mental illness is increasing. The number of sick leave with the diagnosis of mental illness has increased, and the majority of those on sick leave are women – just over 70 per cent of those on sick leave are women. The Prime Minister leads a feminist government that will pursue feminist politics. That is why my question to the Prime Minister is: how can the Prime Minister leave all these women outside and allow mental illness to continue to increase?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-478	Mr President, I would like to No, I'm not leaving them out. This is exactly the moment when it is extremely important that society works and shows that it works, and for that we need a general welfare that works. That is why we have contributed and will provide money for example for school health care to work for the younger ones, those who actually go to school. It's been undersized. We need to get the dimension up. For that, taxes cannot be reduced, but resources must be used. Even the BUP must have more resources, because the queues there are too long. In addition, mental health care also needs strengthened resources. We now agree in the January agreement to strengthen this work with more resources and more systematics to reduce sickness rates. It is not okay for young people, especially women, to feel mentally ill. But it requires work from school up through the entire care chain.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-483	Mr President, I would like to Back to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health! This means that the focus is back on the major challenges in Swedish healthcare. We do not miss them. Member Pernilla Stålhammar's party is in the government. That's why I'm really interested in seeing and hearing how the Green Party views some of these challenges. I missed a lot of those things in Pernilla Stålhammar's speech. We note that when the alliance government took over, 130 000 people were in line for a first visit and an operation. Then the queue billions were introduced. By the time we handed over 2014, we were down to 52,000 patients. There were still too many of them-- preferably we all want to see zero. But there was a big difference in what we handed over. Now we're back at over 90,000. We climb quickly to the high amount that we last handled in the Alliance. I would like Pernilla Stålhammar to explain how the Green Party believes we should tackle the queues and how we need to design specific queue billions.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-487	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall, for that question! We share the ambition that people who are sick should have access to healthcare. That is why at least I am proud that we, together with Mr C and Mr L, have now agreed to introduce the cue billion. You also had a queue billion, but we saw that it did not really work as we would have liked because there were many people who ended up outside it – those who were really sick, for example multi-sick, and those who were chronically ill. That is why we now want to ensure that this also comes to them. It also looks different around the country. We're gonna find a system to correct it so it works all over the country. That is the work we are doing now and will work forward so that we can eventually present this queue billions to the Riksdag.
i-J1AbpxK9cxFmuybfvpdmY	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Pernilla Stålhammar, for your answer. Since the answer included nothing but the use of a cue billion, I assume that the Green Party has really embraced this. After all, we have not received any other proposal from the Green Party when it comes to shortening queues. It is a rather serious situation to sit in a government and see that the queues just rage away but do not come up with any kind of action. I am well aware that it is the Social Democrats who have held the post of Minister of State in terms of responsibility. But it is not possible, as an environmental party, to renounce responsibility when you sit in the government that has been so hard to deal with this. I repeat the question: how has the Green Party worked on this? Are you satisfied with the situation that you are actually sitting with and have to take responsibility for, where so many people today are waiting and risk getting sick and perhaps even dying in medical queues that are just pulling away? So we are one of Europe's worst countries when it comes to taking care of our patients on time. It's pretty serious. I note once again that it is the queue billion that is lifted up – and that Pernilla Stålhammar is now very happy that the queue billion is there. We haven't really heard that before. I have one more question. Pernilla Stålhammar is also welcome to focus on the other part, which has been my big heart issue today. How does the Green Party want us to deal with cancer care? What are the major challenges there, and how do you intend to push the government for something to happen?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-497	Mr President, I would like to Now it is actually the case, Camilla Waltersson, that this is also about how to organize yourself out in the regions and in the county councils, and you are in control of most county councils. After all, it is not only the Social Democrats and the Green Party in the government, but these issues are also where you sit and rule. Then you must also be held accountable there. I'm glad– I'm new to these issues, and I'm very happy that we're going to deal with this queue billion. Unfortunately, we have chosen the same name, but it has a different content from the queue billions previously held by the Alliance. There are also a lot of other things that we do. We will be looking at a primary care reform that will allow us to get closer. As it is organized today, many people, for example, have mental ill health that is not able to come and get help for it in an easy way. We want to move this closer to the patient so that the availability will be better. We will also invest in the BUP – queues will be removed in youth psychiatry, for example. I think it's a little hard for Camilla Waltersson to just hit the government here. There is also a heavy responsibility in the county councils and in the regions.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-502	Mr President, I would like to I asked for the floor again because I thought the discussion that was going on about accessibility and queues was stimulating and exciting. I thought I would contribute some points of view on this, which I think we need to think more about. I think we all agree that the accessibility of Swedish healthcare needs to be improved. Now Sweden is not alone in having concerns about accessibility in healthcare. The United Kingdom, with its state health system, terrifies. Several of our neighbours, including Finland, have also had concerns about access to healthcare. I myself have had talks with Northern politicians about why they have concerns about accessibility. I am often told that there is a shortage of specialist doctors. It is difficult to get specialist doctors from Mälardalen. It is also difficult to compete with accessibility in the inner city of Stockholm, where there is a plethora of medical resources, if you sit and try to administer healthcare in Jämtland, Västernorrland or Norrbotten. I think that in the coming years some bourgeois politicians will learn what it means to try to run healthcare in Norrland – it's tougher than doing it in Stockholm. I can't help but think about one thing. When I studied the queue statistics in detail, I could note that every fourth newcomer to the country's queues came from a single county council – the county council that was ruled by the Alliance during the previous term of office, namely Västra Götaland. People often point their finger at the politicians in Northern Europe. It certainly deserves to be questioned how it can be that they have not worked even more with accessibility – some criticism they deserve. But why is there never any criticism of Johnny Magnusson, who is a moderate politician in the county council that a quarter of the newcomers in the queue come from? It is a county council with very large surpluses and very large financial resources. I can't help but ask myself that question.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-507	Mr President, I would like to Social services have a comprehensive, difficult and, at the same time, extremely important mission. It shall promote economic and social security, equality in living conditions and active participation in society. How do you do that? Yes, there is, of course, no simple answer to that question and not just an answer. The need for action differs from family to family and from individual to individual. Social services therefore need to examine the situation and the need for action in each individual case. I think we all agree that this procedure is challenging, that it should be of good quality and that it requires that the staff of the social services have a high level of competence. Particularly challenging is the work of social services with children who are in harm's way or who are in danger of getting hurt. These are often very complex social problems that need to be investigated and highly qualified assessments made. These assessments in turn often lead to very far-reaching and intervening decisions, such as decisions to place children outside their own home. We know, Mr President, that action, as well as the absence of action, can be absolutely crucial for a child's upbringing and its future adult life. In 2013, the Alliance government presented proposals to introduce specific eligibility requirements for the performance of certain tasks in social care for children and young people, given the importance of high and proper competence of social services staff in order to be able to carry out their work legally and with high quality. The eligibility requirements proposed by the Alliance were adopted, as were transitional provisions to enable social services in Sweden's 290 municipalities to adapt and meet the new requirements. The transitional provisions expire on the last June. Unfortunately, we can see that the municipalities continue to have problems meeting the requirements. That is why the Government is now proposing in the proposal that this report and this debate deal with the extension of the transitional arrangements until the end of June 2022. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates do not oppose the extension of the transitional arrangements, but we are seriously concerned about the government's passivity in relation to the challenges of social services – a passivity of which this bill is a clear example. The government does not put forward any proposals for measures to close the skills gaps identified, but simply prolongs the transitional arrangements. It is deeply unsatisfactory. We Moderates believe that Swedish social services – although the situation is very different across the country – are in fact in a crisis, not least in a staffing crisis. It is ultimately a political responsibility, Mr President, which is a heavy burden on this government. In order to solve the urgent problems and to develop social services so that it becomes more equal and accessible across the country, we Moderates have presented a wide range of reforms. Among other things, we propose the development of a national action plan. Mr President, I would like to We see growing shortcomings in society's support for children and young people, as revealed in the annual report from Bris, Children's Rights in Society. It showed that children seeking support linked to community support measures in social services, pupil health or child and youth psychiatry had increased by 36 per cent. It is another clear signal of the seriousness and depth of the problems in social services. Concrete measures are now needed to ensure that municipalities comply with the eligibility requirements as a matter of urgency. Measures are now needed to strengthen social services and their employees and to make social services a more attractive employer. That is why, Mr President, I support the Moderates' reservation No 2.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-518	Mr President, I would like to What we are talking about today is the amendment of the transitional rules on jurisdiction. For those who work in social services to investigate, assess and decide on the need for interventions for children and young people, there is today a requirement for eligibility. When deciding on this competence requirement, it also decided on transitional provisions which meant that an administrator who worked on these tasks could still work with them until June 2019. This was done so that it would be possible to reset and validate and supplement the training according to the required requirements. What the government is now proposing is to amend the transitional provisions so that the administrator will be competent to carry out these tasks until June 2022 instead of June 2019. I think it is very important that we ensure the competence and quality and therefore also the legal certainty of social services as soon as possible. I had hoped that we would not have to have this debate today – that it would be superfluous and that everything would already be done and done. Unfortunately, however, that is not the reality, and that is what we have to relate to. Then we'll have to make the best of the situation. Since many employers and employees have had difficulties with the validation and completion of training on the basis of the regulations, which was also amended as late as February 2018, we nevertheless consider it justified to extend the transitional period. However, we only want to extend it by one year. Our position has been based on the fact that municipalities, including as a result of the refugee situation in 2015, have found it difficult both to retain and recruit staff for child and youth care services in social services. In addition, like many of the consultative bodies, we have some concern that it will affect legal certainty and quality. Mr President, I would like to The position of the National Board of Health and Welfare has also been a weighty reason why we have landed as we have. They also consider that it is justified to amend the transitional arrangements and also to extend them by one year. Another important consultation body is the Ombudsman for Children, who fears that changes to transitional arrangements could lead to regional differences as some have progressed further in their work than others. As I said, Mr President, I would rather stand here today and say no to an extension, but it is about taking responsibility and seeing the consequences of such action. Here we must not least look after the best interests of the children. This requires personnel to make these decisions and conduct these investigations. No one would benefit from a reduction in staff in an already heavily burdened social service. All in all, we have chosen to support the extension of the transitional arrangements, but only by one year. This means that I am in favour of reservation 1.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-528	Mr President, I would like to When children and young people get hurt or are in danger of getting hurt, they need the help of society. It is important that children and young people receive help quickly. There must be legal certainty and with administrators who have a high level of competence and good experience. The eligibility requirements shall include all administrators of matters concerning children and young people in particular. If children do not risk being squeezed and may have to wait unnecessarily long, which can have devastating consequences for their children. There is a shortage of social workers in social services. There's not enough of them to cover the need. The social services have and have had a very tough working environment and a fairly high staff turnover. The sickness rates among those who work there are also relatively high. Last but certainly not least: Working with children and young people is one of the toughest and most difficult tasks of social services. Mr President, I would like to This report is about the extension of previous decisions. Administrators who were hired before 1 June 2014 to perform certain tasks related to children and young people in the social services shall have their employment extended until 30 June 2022. This is a limited number of people who are not socionomists but who have a good education, for example in behavioural sciences, social education, social psychology or other education that the employer has assessed corresponds to the skills and education that are deemed appropriate for carrying out these tasks, so that investigations and assessments of possible actions based on social services legislation are carried out correctly. The relevant administrators shall also have at least five years of experience in the tasks. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's regulations were amended on 1 February 2018. It has been difficult to achieve both validation and complementary training during this time. It is extremely important that children and young people are helped when they are most vulnerable by staff with the right skills to help them. Mr President, I would like to Clearly, more needs to be done for children and young people who are harmed or at risk of doing so. More needs to be done to get more people to validate their skills in social services, and more staff should be able to complement their training. We Social Democrats therefore welcome the fact that the government has made several initiatives in the field of social care for children and young people, but of course more needs to be done. Efforts have also been made to strengthen staffing. The ongoing inquiry into future social services is important. Among other things, it has the task of making proposals for a skills and knowledge-based social service. To conclude, Mr President, I call for the committee's proposal for a decision to be approved.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-535	Mr President, I would like to Basically, I think that Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg and I agree on the need for really good employees in social services. It is important that we raise skills and ensure that they meet the skills requirements we have set. However, I find it remarkable that this government and the party represented by Mrs Ahlberg are so passive and do not put forward any proposals that will enable us to overcome these problems, but simply extend the transitional rules on eligibility requirements. The honourable Member said in his speech here that several initiatives have been taken. It is also possible to read in the committee's position that it wishes to recall that the government has taken several initiatives. But what initiative has been taken to overcome these skills gaps? The only thing I can find is the staffing effort. It is not about raising the skills of those who lack the skills, but it is about covering the costs of hiring extra staff from municipalities. In 2016, the cost was 60 million, which the government paid. Is the Social Democrats' response to the staffing crisis in Swedish social services to cover some of the costs that municipalities have incurred for renters? Mr President, I would like to I and the Moderates believe that serious reforms are needed to address the problems of social services. We want to see a national action plan. Why are the Social Democrats against it?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-538	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for the opportunity to discuss this issue a little more! Mr President, I would like to As Johan Hultberg says, we have an honest idea that we want the best interests of children and young people. When children are at risk of harm, harm or have a family situation that makes them need support and help from society, social services should be there. Many others, too, have to alert and know their task. It is then a matter of investing in everything from preschool to health care. Last term we invested a lot in municipalities and county councils so that they could employ more staff. That is how you discover problems, and that is how you can give children the help they should receive. If we were not to carry out the extension that we are proposing today, it would mean that fewer would have the opportunity to ensure that children receive the help and support that they need. The staff working on this in the social services have a lot of experience. The toughest cases they have are children who get hurt, and there you use the best skills, whether it is a sociologist or someone else who is equal. It is ultimately social services legislation that should apply, and it is extremely important. Therefore, I trust that the employer uses personnel with the right skills for their tasks.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-541	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for his reply. Thanks to the budget that the Moderates and Christian Democrats managed to push through last autumn, there were substantial increases in funding to Sweden's municipalities and county councils in the form of increased general state grants. This means that every municipal politician and municipal council in the country has the opportunity to prioritise what is most urgent in that particular municipality. However, this discussion is specifically about the social services and the competences that we have set in broad agreement, and I am critical that the government is so passive. I and the Moderates are not opposed to extending the transitional arrangements, as I was clear about in my speech. However, we are critical of the government and Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg's party not having any ideas and suggestions on how to overcome the serious problems we see in social services. As Bris points out, more and more young people are witnessing problems in not getting the support they are entitled to under the law. We know that social security secretaries end up in social services because they think the workload is too heavy and the work too demanding. As Mrs Ahlberg pointed out in her speech, there is a shortage of social secretaries and socionomists in social services, despite the fact that social welfare education is one of Sweden's most popular educations. Many socionomists are trained, but many choose to quit social services or not even apply for employment there. Then, politically, I think, and the Moderates, we must do what we can to increase the attractiveness of social services so that social services become a more attractive employer. We need to work on digitalisation to free up more time so that social secretaries can work on the really important things, such as helping the most vulnerable children, and spending less time on bureaucracy and administration. The government is passive. Member Ahlberg's party is passive. That, Mr President, is a betrayal of the most vulnerable children.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-548	Mr President, I would like to It sounds nice when Moderate Johan Hultberg stands in Parliament's Chamber and speaks well of those who need the help of society most. But that is not the reality. You would rather lower taxes for the already wealthy than give municipalities more resources to help vulnerable children and young people or to ensure that vulnerable families get into work and have a chance to support themselves and thereby reduce child poverty. The Moderates are not usually the party that stands on the side of these children. We Social Democrats want to invest in this to work and be good. It is about validating the knowledge of those who are already employed and actually want to continue working on these issues. It's about watching the education. How can we avoid having to study another four years and instead supplement our education? It is about investing in the work environment so that more people stay, because high sickness rates do not give more staff. It's about getting some air when you're working hard cases. Then big tax cuts will not help. It would have made it easier if the 20 billion tax cuts in the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, which we now have to deal with, had come to those who need the help of society most, rather than those who are already well off.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-553	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate a motion report on public transport, which is an important issue for many of us around the country. Let me start by pointing out, however, that this report does not deal with all train connections, bicycles and so on – a door-to-door journey may, of course, contain many different modes of transport. In the Riksdag, however, there are some strewn pipes sometimes, and anyone listening to the debate can therefore see it as not seeing the whole picture. But we do, and we will come back to other areas. Mobility is about so much, and as many of us have highlighted several times in this House, all modes of traffic are needed for the whole country, life and day to work. But it is not just the travel itself that should work. It is also about seeing more policy areas for public transport to work. I am thinking above all of social planning. However, it is not primarily Parliament but the regions that decide on public transport. Many of us are dependent on public transport on a daily basis. Politics has set high targets to increase use, which is noticeable for us travelers when we crowd on buses and trains and for us politicians through increased costs. It is good that the use is increasing but not without problems. Technological developments in the transport sector are moving at a rapid pace, and we will certainly move in other ways in the not too distant future. Then it's a matter of keeping up with politics. When it comes to ensuring a long-term sustainable transport supply for the entire country's citizens, I and the Moderates believe, among other things, in affirming the sharing economy. Sharing economy and digitalisation give us new opportunities to talk about transport policy and about mobility as a service, mobility as a service. I am well aware that not everyone lives in a big city, but we can still agree that many people live in big cities. This can make a difference here, but then we must enable the sharing advantages. Many people and families could do without a car if they could make better use of the collaborative economy. The Moderates have been raising this issue for a long time, and I would like to commend the government today for actually giving the Swedish Transport Administration the task of investing in it – a little late but still. I think we have a lot to gain from that. In another area, it's a little still. There's something called reserobot. Everyone in the Committee on Transport knows this, but unfortunately not everyone else in the country. The technology exists for a common ticketing and payment system, but despite the fact that we have been talking about it for a long time, it is not working yet. The Gemene man asks how difficult it can be and if it can not only be solved, but we who work with this know that it is not quite that simple. However, a common system is needed. It is not only necessary for all those who commute daily but also for tourists and for those who do not commute and want to travel collectively but choose to take the car because the ticketing system is too complicated. This can't go on. It is simply time for a competitively neutral digital ticketing and payment system. I have, of course, noted that the 73-point programme has included it, but I also note that none of the parties that have signed the agreement so far has specified what it means and what it will mean. However, travellers do not want to wait any longer, so I look forward to hearing what is coming out here today. Mr President, I would like to Let me say something short about poaching, so-called planning. Of course, it's forbidden. However, the problem is big, and too many people obviously think it's okay to travel collectively without paying. Of course it's not. It is about people who are outside the common system that we have decided on. Nor can it continue this way, so we Moderates think that one must review the fine for planning. There is also a need to take other measures to combat this cheating. In conclusion, Mr President, with the motion for a resolution, I would like to highlight the increase in public transport, but I have tried to point out that this is much more than what the report refers to in order to make this work. There is a lot about punctuality and reliability. As I said, we will come back to this House to discuss rail, which is a major part of making this work. I am convinced that if we accept new technologies and new ways of travelling, we will see even greater success. Finally, we stand in the Moderates behind all our motions, but for time winning I only agree to reservation 5.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-567	Mr President, I would like to I wanted to start by announcing that we support all our reservations as well as the joint reservation 13 with the Christian Democrats, but for time winning, I only ask for reservation 6 to oblige SJ to open up its reservation system to other actors. Although Sweden is a sparsely populated country and many depend on the car in their everyday lives, we can say that there is an equally great need for a functioning public transport system. More and more jobs are being located in larger cities, and if everyone had chosen to drive a car to work and study places, the roads would have been completely stupid again. Of course, it would have been good if the need for commuting were reduced. A large part of the population spends a very large part of their day sitting on a train or in a bus or car. I myself have spent three hours a day riding trains from Hässleholm at the time I worked in Malmö. But reality is what it is, and companies themselves choose where they want to establish themselves. Then we must create good opportunities for people to travel, whether by car, bicycle, train or bus. Mr President, I would like to The ambition of the Swedish Democrats is to strengthen the opportunities to travel by public transport. If we look at the travel development in Region Skåne we see that it is the region in Sweden where public transport has increased most in the last ten twenty years. Public transport has also increased elsewhere, but not to the same extent as in Skåne, where it has more than doubled since the turn of the millennium. The market share has also doubled, from about 10% of motorised journeys in 2000 to just over 20% today. In order to strengthen travel by means of public transport and increase the share of travel, it is important that there are trains and buses and that there is a close connection between the departures. A seat should be the rule and not the exception, the price should be reasonable and last but not least it should be possible to trust that you arrive and on time. In particular, regional trains are failing. Pendant trains, short-distance trains and subways do not have this sensitivity, but regional trains and, for that matter, long-distance trains have less time. The longer the train goes, the more sensitive it gets. I believe that all parties in Parliament share my view that the rightness and interference of the railway network is a major problem and reduces people's willingness to choose the train as a means of transport. Buses often have better punctuality, but perhaps not in Stockholm, but there they go so often that it is not as important. If this does not work and the trains will not, it is important to have information that can be trusted, but there is a lot of complaints that this also works poorly. To attract more people who drive far with their car to work to take a train or bus, it is important to offer commuter parking within walking distance of the stations. The surrounding environment should feel safe, and it should be good lighting and camera monitoring that creates extra security. This applies not only to your own safety, but also to the security that your car should not be vandalised. A resource that could probably be used more is collective travel on water. Here we support the Christian Democrats' reservation 13, and we agree with the idea of making better use of the waterway for public transport and that this is taken into account where this could be relevant in future infrastructure planning. Mr President, I would like to It should be easy to travel collectively and with this also easy to buy your ticket. In order to facilitate ticketing, the various county transport companies should jointly develop a ticketing system that is nationwide, i.e. a common ticketing system for the whole of Sweden. Having said that, I do not mean that prices and zone systems need to be the same. What the technology for this looks like in the future is difficult to say about, but now there should have been an app that applies throughout the country. Several of us were at a lecture in Stockholm the other day, where they showed how to work with chip in Visakort or Mastercard to be used for purchase. This could be something for the whole country. What will come later remains to be seen, but at present there should already have been a common app for the whole country. It would have been much easier to travel if you could buy a ticket in the same system in Skåne as in Stockholm or Gothenburg. SKL has had all the possibilities as an organization to be involved and press, but here too they have not managed to develop anything in common, which is a bit of a pity. For those who travel collectively by train longer distances, it is often easy to buy a ticket. If it is with a train that is part of SJ's booking system, it is easy to pull out your phone and just enter where you want to go. But for those companies that are not included in this it is not so fun, because they get to see their profits eaten up by marketing to sell tickets. It's not to sell the trip, it's to sell the ticket, so they get the sales channel. We can't have this. We can choose two routes here if we want to see fair competition for the companies operating passenger services. Number 1 is that we require SJ to open up its reservation system to all train companies that want to purchase the service, against SJ receiving a reasonable remuneration for the operation and development of the system. Number 2 is that we do as in Norway, which with its Entur has formed an independent state company where all actors can participate in the booking system. The former may be considered to be the most pragmatic, since we already have an established service and we can, through directives, oblige SJ to open up its system and allow those customers who are used to buying their trip through SJ to remain. The transport service is also a part of public transport, a very important part. For a large part of our population, especially the elderly, the transportation service is a service that makes life tolerable and better. Sometimes it is a service that in practice is vital. We often see in the press how traveling passengers get hurt. These are accidents where staff lack training, cars that do not come, cars that drop off dementia, companies that go bankrupt because of dumped prices in procurements and drivers or travel bookers that do not master the language so that driving goes to the wrong address. The list can be made longer. The Swedish Democrats welcome a review of the transport services industry in order to make travel safer for users. Finally, Mr President, while I am in the area of security, I would like to strike a blow to the safety of our train hosts, ticket inspectors and others who have direct customer contact in public transport. We see a growing problem in the fact that this group is becoming increasingly exposed to violence by people, often so-called youth gangs, who refuse to pay tickets or are generally messy. These gangs are also spreading insecurity among travellers, and harassment and violence are a growing problem that we need to take strong action against. More trains need to be monitored. Orderkeepers on trains at night and at night are now commonplace and cost county transport companies and Jernhusen with several large sums each year. Violent action against the bully is needed, as is more severe punishment for those who harass and use violence. In public transport, you should feel safe regardless of the time of day. Violent people aren't supposed to ride trains or buses. They're supposed to drive a police car to prison.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-582	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that the Center Party naturally supports all its reservations, but for time winning, I would like to endorse only reservation 2. Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to debate the motions dealt with in the Public Transport report, and here I and the Center Party were thinking of putting down blows in a number of areas. There are many of us who get thoughts and views on public transport on a daily basis. Many people want to travel collectively but unfortunately do not have the opportunity to do so for various reasons. The Center Party therefore considers it important to improve and develop public transport throughout the country. Increased public transport contributes to reducing emissions but also to reducing congestion on the roads. During the time of the alliance government, a so-called queue billion in health care was introduced that was for those county councils and regions that could shorten queues within health care. A similar system wants the Center Party to see in public transport with a so-called public transport bonus. This would be a first step for the regions to be able to take part in developing and creating the conditions for public transport throughout the country, not least in rural areas. The statistics show that public transport is mainly used by women, while men choose the car to a greater extent. In this context, I would like to remind you that reliable, safe and attractive public transport is therefore not only a traffic issue but also a gender equality issue. The Center Party believes that our transport system should respond equally to the different needs and conditions of women and men. Transport and communications are fundamental to our everyday lives, and the Center Party therefore believes that equal transport is about giving women and men equal opportunities when it comes to, for example, getting to work, going collectively to their education and getting their life puzzle together with picking up and leaving children at preschool, for example. In order to increase travel for all, the whole journey needs to be considered. Therefore, we need to think about the whole journey, from starting at home – when we lock the door – until we finish the journey at the destination. In between, you may need to go by car or bicycle to a railway or bus station and then travel by train or bus. In order to develop a more equal and therefore more sustainable transport system, it is also necessary for both women and men to participate in discussions and decisions relating to the transport system. Mr President, I would like to All public transport throughout Sweden is important. But I would like to go a little deeper into the traffic to and from Gotland where the communications are vital to the island's development. Ferry traffic therefore needs to be fast and reliable, but also environmentally friendly, and pricing must be reasonable for residents and visitors, but also, of course, for freight transport. Parliament has decided that the transport sector will reduce its CO2 emissions by 70 per cent by 2030. The Center Party's view is that it is therefore necessary to start the transition to renewable fuels in Gotland traffic already during the current traffic period. The Center Party would also like to remind you that the government has appointed Gotland to be a pilot county in the transition to a hundred percent renewable society, and special funds have been added to the Swedish Energy Agency for this mission. Based on this, the Center Party believes that it should be accommodated within the mission. The Center Party is also aware that the currently procured traffic for the period 2017–2027 means that the terms and conditions are essentially established for a time to come. However, the Center Party believes that the transition to more environmentally friendly fuels must be accelerated during the operating period. In 2027 a new traffic period will start and new directives and procurements will be launched. If Gotland traffic is to be converted into a more environmentally friendly fleet, it may be appropriate for the state to go in to some extent and finance this. If and how the State should do so, it should be investigated as soon as possible. It should be easy to travel collectively, and county boundaries should not put an end to this. In many parts of the country, including in my home constituency, Sjuhärad, which borders the county of Halland and Jönköping, it can sometimes be an obstacle to travel collectively because the bus stops at the county border. My own experience from when I had a leisure card is that when I was going to travel the train between Borås and Varberg, the leisure card only applied to Västra Götaland county border. Then I had to pay for the trip in Halland County. I do not know if you can call this because it is easy to travel collectively. Based on that it should be easy to travel, you should also know in an easy way how to travel and how to pay. So you should not have to opt out of public transport because you do not know how to use it or how to pay. Mr President, I would like to The January agreement concluded by the Center Party with the Liberals, the Social Democrats and the Green Party states that a national ticketing system for all public transport throughout Sweden should be introduced. This is something that the Center Party was running in 2018, and we will be driving for this to be done at a high pace. In this matter, it is also important not only to look at whether it should be a card, an app or a chip but also to look at people's needs to make it easier in their everyday lives. It is also important to take into account the industry's perspective – those who drive public transport and other actors – in this study. In this particular part of the report on public transport relating to a national ticketing system, we in the Center Party choose to present our views in a separate opinion rather than in reservations.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-602	Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Left, I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 7. The climate is in an emergency. We know that climate change is big and serious and that we have very little time to change course if we want humanity to survive at all. This means that we need to change our behaviour in general and small in many ways, for example, we need to go more collectively where possible. In order for people to use public transport, it needs to be as simple, cheap and efficient as possible, and there must be no obstacles to collective travel. It must be easy to get information about the offer and easy to book a ticket. Then we create the conditions for more people to choose trains or buses instead of cars. The existence of a wide range of operators at local, regional and national level must not prevent a nationally coordinated and easily accessible payment for tickets and annual cards for trains, buses and other public transport services. Therefore, the Left Party believes that there should be a national uniform ticketing system that can be used wherever in the country the traveller wants to travel by public transport and regardless of the type of public transport used. We do not believe that this ticketing system should be provided by any individual of the train operators. If public transport operators do not provide such ticket sales and information through their own initiatives, the government should take measures to make such a requirement possible. The Left Party believes that work on this must be started now. The climate objectives should certainly take precedence over the dismantling of labour law. Madam President, I would like Another important factor in people choosing public transport instead of car is the price. Passengers in public transport usually have lower incomes than car owners. They have seen their transport costs increase much faster than motorists. It has become relatively cheaper to take the car for a few extra miles than to take the bus. The car has thus strengthened its competitiveness vis-à-vis public transport. Since 1995, the cost of travelling collectively has increased almost four times as much as the general price increase. Is that reasonable? Does it make it easier for more people to travel collectively? No, I don't think so. We need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions quickly. That is why many more people must travel collectively, wherever possible. We know it's difficult in some parts of the country. Fewer journeys should be made by car. From this point of view, it is quite unreasonable that it has become so expensive to travel collectively. The left-wing vision is free public transport, but until it can be implemented public transport must at least be cheaper. The state apparently has enough money to remove military tax and provide subsidies to people who want to redecorate at home or have someone walking a few laps around the house every hour, but we do not have the money to take action to reduce climate emissions. It is also about equality. Moving about in any way is becoming a privilege for those who have a good economy. Wages and allowances are being held down for those who already have the least, while everything else is becoming more expensive. As I said, public transport prices have been increased four times as much as they have for other goods and services. Of course, we cannot have that. It is no wonder that more and more planks, such as in Stockholm. This does not mean that people are criminals to be locked into already overcrowded prisons; it means that the price has reached the limit of pain. Even low-income people who cannot afford to own a car need to be able to move. Making public transport unreasonably expensive is one way to lock up those who cannot afford to have a car and restrict their freedom of movement. Madam President, I would like You don't always come all the way from door to door with public transport. This means that several different types of traffic may need to be used during the journey. The Left Party believes, among other things, that public transport should enable combined journeys by bicycle, thus enabling people to cycle parts of the journey. It needs to be possible to take the bike on the train, bus and metro. There must be much more reserved than today for bicycles on trains and buses. The Left Party believes that the possibility of taking bicycles on trains and buses should be a requirement for the procurement of traffic and vehicles, both in the national and local public transport networks. Madam President, I would like Through public transport contracts, public transport workers have become more insecure in their daily lives. They cannot simply be forced to apply for their jobs; any new procurement may also give employers the opportunity to withdraw from previous agreements. We believe that an important measure is to impose requirements on the transfer of activities. This means that the staff should be allowed to accompany their jobs to the new employer without having worse working conditions. We also believe that it is important for the authorities to require companies to offer conditions under existing collective agreements. In this context, we can also note that the regional public transport authorities are never demanding the protection of communications today. This, in our opinion, leads to a deterioration in public transport with a greater risk of accidents, as staff have difficulty reporting shortcomings. We would like to point out that demands for protection of the public are creating a culture in which employees dare to tell us about abuses, such as safety deficiencies in public transport. Finally, public transport is part of the climate change that we must make and we must ensure that it is comfortable, safe, reliable and cheap to travel collectively. It is time for political action.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-619	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by pointing out that a well-functioning and accessible public transport system is of great importance in order to reduce the environmental impact of the transport sector and to increase access to work commuting. It should be easy and easy to get to work or school. I would also like to point out that good communications are a prerequisite for our elongated country to have growth that develops prosperity and employment. While increased demands on urban and rural mobility are being made today, efficient communications and transport are important for companies to be able to establish themselves in smaller towns around the country. I would therefore like to emphasise the importance of promoting public transport and local transport in rural areas. I believe that public transport is primarily the responsibility of municipalities and regions, but that the state should also help to increase the conditions for travelling collectively, both in cities and in rural areas. I also believe that priority should be given to more environmentally friendly transport in tax-financed public transport and procured transport. Madam President, I would like We can see that public transport in water can often relieve the traffic routes of municipalities and regions. In addition, maritime transport causes less CO2 emissions and is an environmentally friendly and efficient mode of transport that can transport many travellers in large cities. We are aware that waterways are currently underused. However, we believe that they have the potential to enable future housing and labour market areas. We therefore believe that it is important to include boat commuting in the planning of the future infrastructure, to make quays available and to have a ticket system that includes both procured and individual operators' passenger traffic on water. We therefore believe that the Swedish Transport Administration should be tasked with collaborating with municipalities and regions to support the expansion of public transport on water. Madam President, I would like We can see that so-called planning is a major problem in some of our major cities. We have learned that in Stockholm alone, the planning according to SL meant a loss of revenue of over SEK 300 million for 2015. Instead, it is money that could have been used to expand public transport. The basic problem with people plotting is that they are out of the common funding of the public transport system but at the same time ask for access to it. The planks thus allow others to take the cost of their trips and impair the conditions for buses to arrive on time and be clean and safe to ride. We would like to point out that ticket inspectors play an important role and that passengers should be obliged to present their driving certificates at ticket checks, which they are not today. In the long term, a system should also be considered where notorious poachers can, for example, be switched off from public transport for a limited period of time. Furthermore, we would like to point out that the current design of the so-called additional levy does not act as a sufficient deterrent, and it also depends on the number of checks carried out. It is therefore clear, we believe, that there is a need for strong action against planing. We therefore believe that there should be a review of the fines and other types of preventive measures against planning. Madam President, I would like We support all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 3.
i-5Zb1gv6WBerH3MAxABS2Wy	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Liberals' reservation 4 to be approved. In addition, I should like to say at the outset, Madam President, that I have considered the question of when the car will be included in the public transport system. I'll get back to that. A well-functioning public transport system is a prerequisite for the entire transport system in Sweden to function. It is an important piece of the puzzle that interacts across the modes of rail, road, shipping and air travel. Public transport is a prerequisite for reducing congestion on our road network. In 2017, public transport travel amounted to 1.6 billion climbs, an impressive figure showing that we Swedes are a travelling people. Public transport is currently the most important component in the fact that today we have as low emissions as we do in our elongated country. If we are to reach the 2030 climate target, public transport will continue to play an important role. In order to increase the amount of public transport travel, it is important to review how we can make it easier and more efficient for people to transport from door to door. Here we need to have a stronger focus on all situations where you go from traffic law to traffic law. These could include shuttle parking, better equipped stops, more efficient transport and transit to our ports and airports. Not least, the experience and road safety for children, the elderly and the disabled need to be improved. When it comes to access to airports, it is gratifying that there will soon be a train connection to Landvetter Airport in connection with the railway construction between Gothenburg and Borås. In addition to thinking through and improving the physical experience when travelling collectively, we in Sweden also need to make it easier to book and pay tickets for longer distances, across county boundaries. Therefore, a national, competitively neutral platform needs to be put in place to make it possible to book and pay your ticket all the way from door to door, regardless of the type of traffic and whether you cross county borders. The platform should be technology neutral and also facilitate payment across Sweden with the same card. This system can also be part of what is called mobility as a service, which means that you can easily and easily get from door to door. Finally, Madam President, we need to start thinking about whether, in future, electric, connected and self-driving cars will also belong to public transport. Here our definition of public transport will be challenged. The definition says that it is passenger transport of general interest that is offered to the public on a continuous and non-discriminatory basis. Ordering traffic is not included. If we have many self-driving, vacant, cheap cars available, is this a type of traffic which is of general interest and which is offered to the public on an ongoing and non-discriminatory basis? The fact that public transport also takes over the so-called cargo mile and picks you up at the door must nevertheless be seen as a plus value, especially for older and disabled people and especially in winter so that you are not out slipping on the sidewalks. That is why I ask the question once again: when will the car be included in public transport?
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-639	Madam President, I would like Public transport, with its strong focus on mobility and increased climate benefits, is basically about community building. It is about which society we want to have looked at today's needs, but also about which society we are handing over to future generations. There are many of us traveling. Most often come into contact with different forms of transport and different forms of public transport in their daily lives. As a Gothenburger in the Swedish Parliament, I travel every week by tram and metro. I commute between Stockholm and Gothenburg long distances every week. I fly, but relatively rarely. Of course, I'm driving a car, but I don't own my own car at the moment. On board boats, of course, I come from time to time too. But my main means of transport on a weekly basis are bus, tram and metro as well as trains. And, of course, I am not unique in that respect. In 2017, public passenger transport by bus, train, tram, metro and ship amounted to 1.6 billion ascents. During 2017, 812 million bus accesses were made in Sweden, which corresponds to 53 per cent of the total number of public transport boardings. 23 per cent of the climbs were on the subway, 13 per cent on trains, 11 per cent on trams and 1 per cent on ships. Public transport is therefore important to many of us – and rightly so, citizens, planners and climates demand that we decision-makers make future-oriented decisions, prioritise wisely and distribute resources fairly. The overall transport policy objective is to ensure a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. The conditions for choosing public transport, walking and cycling in a simple way should be improved and the transport system designed to be useful for people with disabilities. It must, of course, be adapted to the conditions prevailing in all the different parts of the country. A well-adapted public transport system provides people with geographical accessibility in an energy-efficient and sustainable way in the long term. Madam President, I would like For us Social Democrats, a well-functioning public transport system with high capacity is crucial for the development of society and for people's everyday lives to be reconciled. In addition, increased public transport is needed to address one of our major challenges where we have set clear goals, namely to reduce the climate impact of the transport sector. Our clear ambition is for Sweden to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country. The Government's letter A climate strategy for Sweden shows that the share of transport with low greenhouse gas emissions needs to increase in order for us to meet the high climate target for the transport sector by 2030. Better public transport also strengthens and enlarges the educational and labour market regions in Sweden. It will be easier to apply for a new job or attend an education in the neighbouring county. With an extended public transport system it also becomes more attractive for people to stay or why not settle in new places. In addition, increased resources for railway maintenance, co-financing of new investments in public transport through urban transport contracts and the introduction of an electricity bus premium are some additional of the public transport efforts that the Social Democratic led government has made since it took office. And, Madam President, this is actually the moment! After years of neglected maintenance, the biggest investment in infrastructure is now being carried out in modern times. We see how the transition is going on in the country's municipalities and counties. In the long term, it offers people more opportunities, it increases climate benefits and it also provides more jobs. It is simply very good for Sweden. Public transport is also an area of particular interest for innovation procurement. Electric buses are an example where municipalities, public transport authorities and vehicle manufacturers can work together to drive the development forward. In addition, innovative products and services linked to public transport can lead to increased export opportunities. In this context, as a social democrat from Gothenburg, I am very pleased that my city has gone ahead in both climate work and in having just this good collaboration with vehicle manufacturers, municipalities, public transport authorities and universities. Electricity is one of the initiatives that is rolling in the city, and it is very fun to see when you are in Gothenburg. Madam President, I would like Being at the forefront of these issues is a sharp one, it is wise and it is modern. Real community building requires sustained political leadership, whether at local, regional or international level. The Social Democrats and the government take the challenge of people's need to transport themselves and of Sweden as a whole living as the climate challenge seriously. I am therefore proud to belong to a party and also to be represented by a government that is making clear efforts in these areas in the coming years. I would like to conclude by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in report TU13 on public transport as a whole.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-652	Madam President, I would like It is not often that you get so much praise, so I thought I might take the opportunity to come up here to the speaker's chair and say thank you. It is our budget that is now in place, and Gothenburg is governed by the Alliance and in Västra Götaland the Alliance rules for the second consecutive period. Out in the county councils, it is now a county council that is governed by the Social Democrats. I am therefore very grateful for the fine words that it is now happening. It is good that we also agree so much on the Transport Committee that public transport is important. I almost got a little touched listening to you. Thank you very much.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-654	Madam President, I would like The Social Democratic-led government has been operating for almost five years. It is possible that your budget, as a parenthesis, has gone through this year. I regret that, because it left out a great deal of effort. I note that it is our government, the Social Democratic-led government, that is implementing the greatest infrastructure and rail investment in modern times. It is during our government, after decades of flagging out in Swedish shipping, that we are now seeing how flagging increases after the government got a tonnage tax system in place. To give you an example, as you are beating your chest with regard to the Västra Götaland region, I regret that the Alliance is deprioritising public transport by raising ticket prices by SEK 135 per month in shock. Explain to me, Magnus Jacobsson, how it makes it easier for ordinary people to choose public transport!
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-656	Madam President, I would like I return to the simple fact that you had three budgets and we had one during the last parliamentary term, which is interesting in itself. This term of office may be similar. The budget currently in place is ours. When it comes to Västra Götaland, you know as well as I do that there are major initiatives going on, and it is clear that it costs money to expand public transport. There are initiatives going on in Gothenburg and throughout our area, and unfortunately, that is a dilemma. If we look, for example, at Stockholm, where we have a large population of relatively small areas, you have a better public transport system than we have. We see the same phenomenon in Skåne – you have a better public transport than we have in Västra Götaland. What is exciting is that this strong agreement to invest in public transport still exists, so I will actually go back to saying thank you. I thought it was a very fine speech in which you highlighted all the positive things that are happening.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-659	I would like to remind you that we are speaking through the President and not pitting each other in the seats.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-660	Madam President, I would like I think it is very funny that during the last parliamentary term, for example, we achieved the common climate objectives. We made a broad political decision in this House. I'm glad to hear that. We have an ambitious target of reducing the emissions of the transport sector, and the goal of becoming the world's first fossil-free welfare country is also something that I hope the Christian Democrats will reasonably support. However, I cannot help but regret the fact that, under bourgeois rule, ticket prices are often raised for ordinary people in public transport. I regret that, historically, tax cuts have been implemented instead and that maintenance has been neglected for many years – also under the Reinfeldt Government. Now that we are making the biggest railway effort in modern times and seeing how the Swedish flagging up in shipping is again increasing, it is great fun that the Christian Democrats are happy about it. I am also delighted if we can hook arm in the future and expand public transport in Sweden. I believe it is necessary for the whole country to live and for our cities to develop. We have a government not only for motorways but also for ordinary people.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-663	Madam President, I would like Public transport has a crucial role to play in the transition to a sustainable transport system, which is absolutely essential if we are to achieve our climate targets and halt climate change. Travelling together means a more energy- and surface-efficient way of travelling. Public transport is therefore both environmentally friendly and leads to reduced congestion and more attractive cities. In addition, a large proportion of Sweden's municipalities and regions choose to run public transport on sustainable fuels such as biogas or electricity.
i-c2bc2bb8ae9daa2e-665	To get more people to travel collectively, we need to make public transport both more accessible and more attractive. Public transport needs to have increased capacity, reach the right target points and offer frequent departures so that passengers have the opportunity to travel whenever they wish. Moreover, punctuality is crucial for increasing confidence in public transport. It needs to be simple and attractive to choose public transport over journeys with less sustainable modes of transport such as cars. For the Green Party, it has been important that in the national plan we secure the urban environment agreements that allow for co-financing in public transport measures in the municipalities. 1 billion a year in the coming planning period will make it possible to invest in both bus files and entire systems for BRT, i.e. bus rapid transit, and tram. In August 2019 the track in Lund is expected to open. In order for us to be able to take the decision on the extension of the track during my time as municipal councillor in Lund, the urban environment agreements were absolutely crucial. Apart from us red-green parties, it was the Liberals who were far-sighted enough to understand that it was worth investing in track-borne traffic. The right public transport law in the right place is important in order to achieve the capacity that can accommodate both today's and future travellers. The foundation of many cities is, of course, the city bus, but in routes where higher capacity is needed, the tram is important. We in the Green Party want to see that more cities use the opportunity to invest in trams. This can be about cities such as Malmö and Helsingborg, which have been part of the project S porcars in Skåne and have thus started planning, as well as cities and Uppsala that have made the assessment that the tram not only solves a transport problem but is also an important part of urban development. In Lund, we noticed clearly how the decision on the tramway made possible an urban renewal that increased the investment will in housing and operations along the bow while at the same time getting a much needed renovation of the city space. In this way, investment in trams is actually similar to investment in the metro and the whole railway system. It attracts investment and creates development. Metros of course offer an even higher capacity than the tram and are a good solution for large cities with many inhabitants. However, the extension of public transport is not enough. In order to attract new travellers to public transport, it is important not to allow such things as uncertainty about how to solve tickets to become an obstacle. We who travel often by public transport may find it a little strange that we should have a number of different apps and cards to be able to get through Sweden. That is why we need a national ticketing system that facilitates travel both for us who travel frequently and for those who travel on public transport occasionally. In this way, we can make more people realize that public transport is a convenient, safe and environmentally friendly alternative to the car. The issue of a national ticketing system is included in the January agreement and is currently being prepared in the Government Office. According to responsible Minister Tomas Eneroth, a first step will be to set up an investigation to chisel out the forms of a national ticketing system. For the Green Party, it is important that a stated goal with a national ticketing system is to increase public transport. But it is also important to be able to switch on, for example, rental or loan cycle systems on the ticket system, so that the whole journey can be solved, from door to door. Madam President, I would like Equality in transport is an important issue. It is still the case that women travel more by public transport than men. At the same time, men are over-represented among those planning and deciding on public transport. This increases the risk that women's needs will not be adequately met. The committee therefore stresses that transport is fundamental to our everyday lives and that equal transport is about giving women and men equal opportunities for, for example, work commuting, training commuting and early schooling. Madam President, I would like The report also addresses the issue of transport services, i.e. public transport for those who are unable to use regular public transport because of any disability. As former chairman of a technical committee responsible for public transport and transport services issues, I have seen at close range the challenges of getting a functioning transport service when a procured supplier did not live up to the agreed quality. We as public purchasers then had limited room for manoeuvre when neither dialogue nor periodic penalty payments helped. The competitive situation was also so limited that it was difficult to find another performer. I am therefore pleased that in March 2017, the Government appointed a special investigator to analyse the rules for special passenger transport, such as travel and medical travel. For some travelers, the habit of driving is so strong that they do not even consider taking public transport, despite the possibility. We therefore need to attract more car passengers to break habitable behaviour and test public transport. Behavioural change and mobility management are important elements for switching to more sustainable transport. Other travellers do not have the opportunity to travel collectively, however much they would like. The fact that public transport is mainly located in areas where there is a good base of travellers is natural. But with the development of new vehicles and travel as a service, there is potential for developing public transport in rural areas as well. This will be studied in more detail in a survey of rural mobility. Building a society where environmentally friendly public transport is the backbone and the first choice when travelling is perhaps the most important part in reducing the transport sector's climate emissions. The Green Party will therefore promote public transport at national, local and regional level. High capacity, frequent tours, attractive travel times, punctuality and comfort are all important elements in creating an attractive public transport. In order to create a sustainable, attractive and modern society, public transport is the backbone. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
