i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-15	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me whether I and the government have abandoned the Social Democrats' target of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. I have recently answered a similar question about the unemployment case. The unemployment target appeared during the last parliamentary term as a steering year for government policy. At the same time, the Swedish labour market developed strongly. However, the previous government's target of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU was not included in the current government's government declaration on 21 January 2019. During the previous term of office, the number of employed persons increased by well over 300 000, of which 200 000 were born abroad. The whole job growth came about in regular jobs – not through subsidised employment. We have the highest employment rate ever measured by Eurostat in one EU country and the highest in Sweden for over 25 years. No other EU country has a larger share of its population in the labour force. The establishment of new arrivals in the labour market is accelerating. The unemployment rate is almost down to 6 per cent and decreased by over 1.5 percentage points during the previous term of office. More than half of the reduction in unemployment was assessed in the 2018 budget proposal is attributable to the government's fiscal policy. Youth unemployment decreased by around 6 percentage points over the same period. The share of the compensation and insurance systems is the lowest since 1981. The deficit of some 60 billion left by the former bourgeois government has turned into a large surplus. The government debt ratio fell in 2018 at its lowest level since 1977.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-19	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Employment for her answer, although she does not really answer the question of whether the government has abandoned the target of the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020 or whether it is just not included in the government declaration. Ylva Johansson's answer is otherwise a confirmation that we have gone from a deep financial crisis to a strong boom. The fall in unemployment and the rise in employment are quite natural. This has been the case in all Swedish booms. The problem is that the development has been much weaker in Sweden than in the rest of the world over the last four years. Slovakia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Ireland, Estonia, Slovenia, Luxembourg, Denmark, Austria, the United Kingdom, Romania, Poland, Hungary, Malta, the Netherlands, Germany and the Czech Republic– what do all these countries have in common? Yes, it is EU countries with lower or even much lower unemployment than Sweden. In addition, most of these countries, like Sweden, have shown record employment rates in recent years. Sweden is far from the best in the class; on the contrary, we have lost to other countries. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Labour naturally expresses himself, to say the least, differently today from four years ago. In an interview in Svenska Dagbladet on January 15, 2015, you could read the following: and By 2020, Sweden will have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU, and Ylva Johansson believes that responsibility rests primarily on her. "I'm the one who's supposed to do it," she says. It's not just me, but there's a lot of me. So I feel a huge responsibility. ..................................................... Yes, I think she should feel that responsibility today when she evaluates her last four years. Unemployment has thus decreased less in Sweden than in the rest of the world, and instead of approaching the target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate, we have therefore fallen from 12th to 18th or 19th place. When Sweden, under an S-MP government, has lost ground towards the rest of Europe in a boom, what would suggest that the same government will succeed better when times get worse? On the contrary, the policy that the government will now pursue means that people should work less through, for example, free years and family days. And the tax is not reduced for those with the lowest income, even though we know that is where the employment effects of a tax reduction are greatest. No measures are announced to counteract the unreasonable effects of our benefit systems, integration policies are shining with their absence and there are too many proposals that would directly hit entrepreneurship and jobs. I therefore repeat my question: has the government really abandoned its unemployment target and, if so, why? And where is the government's policy to get more people to work?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-26	Madam President, I would like A little comparison is still important. When I took over as Minister of Labour after the Moderates had ruled, we had sky-high youth unemployment. It was so high that we received support from other EU countries to combat it. We had a very high rate of long-term unemployment. Phase 3 flooded. I am proud of what we achieved in the last parliamentary term. We turned things around in a very strong way. The employment rate increased by 2.5 percentage points over the last term of office. Sweden has had a strong development in the labour market. Other countries have also had strong developments in the labour market, but no other country in the EU has as large a proportion of the population in the labour force as Sweden has. We have an amazingly high participation rate in Sweden, and I am proud of that. The group that accounts for the absolute highest increase in labour force participation is women born abroad. Ten years ago, the difference in labour force participation between foreign-born women and domestic-born women was around 10 percentage points. Now it's down to a few percentage points. It is important, and more needs to be done to succeed in this. Sweden is also the country in Europe that took the greatest responsibility for the reception of refugees in 2015 and 2014. Nevertheless, we have managed to reduce unemployment every year, and I am proud of that. Of course, there are major challenges ahead. But the biggest challenges – I have to say, in polemics with Jan Ericson – are not about benefit systems. We have the lowest proportion of people who depend on any kind of support for their livelihoods for 38 years. It is clear that I think we should continue to try to push down the number of people who depend on, for example, support for livelihoods. But there we are very strong. We still have to say that. Jan Ericson paints a picture of family week or days, which is contained in the January agreement. It is therefore a matter of parents having a few extra days off a year to use when preschools are closed, when planning days are involved, or when for various reasons a son or daughter may feel bad or have suffered something and when the parent's presence makes a big difference. Parents should be able to take this parental responsibility even when they have jobs that do not allow flexible working hours. But more needs to be done to keep pushing down unemployment and to equip ourselves for what might be feared is a coming turn in the economic cycle. This is why it is important to reform the Employment Service, reform labour market training and continue to work on the measures that work.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-33	Madam President, I would like A reduction in youth unemployment is not surprising. That is always the case in the economic boom. In addition, there are much less youth litters now than it was during the alliance years. Ylva Johansson talks about EU support. We got that as late as 2015. That was when Ylva Johansson was a minister. The people have disappeared from phase 3. Instead, they go home and do nothing. I don't know if it's better. Even during the time of the Alliance, we had a large proportion of the population in the labour force. We were the best in Europe then, too. It is only that during the economic boom, the figures have improved further in all countries. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Labour is quite right that one reason for the weak development in Sweden is the reception of a large number of new arrivals. Here, too, the government is co-responsible for the problems. It waited far too long to take action in autumn 2015. Not until the situation was completely unmanageable did the government come to the opposition and wanted help in tightening up migration policy, and many of the measures that were then taken were moderate proposals. Now the government beats its chest and tells us that more new arrivals are coming to work, but it is false mathematics. The proportion that moves from the start-up assignment to training and work, with or without support, is basically unchanged over time and is around 30 – 35 per cent. The only thing that has increased is the extra services. The government counts additional services as persons working in the statistics. But to call a place in this entirely tax-funded measure because the newcomer has got a job is to deal carelessly with the truth, I think, especially since the tasks are not even allowed to compete with real jobs. Extra services are purely labour market measures, and those contained in such measures are normally counted as unemployed in the statistics. If you count people with extra services as unemployed, the Swedish figures are even worse. We would then slip down several places further in EU statistics and probably not even have lower unemployment than the EU average. It's really bad performance by Sweden, I think. In fact, 56 per cent of those who have gone through the multiannual establishment programme at Arbetsförmedlingen do not go on to either education, work or even additional services. Only 7% go on to work without subsidies, despite a strong boom. It's not a success. It's almost a disaster. Unemployment among newcomers is one of our biggest social problems today. It is a burden on our entire economy. It creates social problems, and it discourages integration. Many municipalities are already on their knees today, in the midst of a strong boom, when they are gradually forced to take over responsibility for the livelihood of new arrivals who are not working. As I said, Sweden is entering a worse economy. The failure of those who have been excluded from the labour market in the last four years, in a booming boom, to come on their own is a major failure for the government. Despite this, new opt-out rules now want to bring in additional large numbers of people from other countries, people who are at great risk of not finding a job either, but becoming excluded and dependent on benefits. Of course, Sweden should instead tighten up its reception and tackle the great alienation that we already see in many of our municipalities. We are already receiving far more asylum seekers than all our Nordic neighbours, and we are filling our alienation all the time. The government's own experts made it clear last year that, in some cases, taking a job may pay less than continuing to live on grants. It is perhaps no wonder, then, that unemployment in some groups is very high. A ceiling on subsidies, as proposed by the Moderates, would be an important reform, but of this nothing can be seen in government policy. In addition, a variety of other efforts are needed to improve the opportunities for newcomers to get to work. What does the government want? Do you have a plan? I'll get back to the unemployment case. Have you or have you not abandoned it? And where is the government's policy to get more new arrivals to work?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-46	Madam President, I would like When I took office, 28 per cent of those who left Arbetsförmedlingen's start-up assignments were in work or studies. Today it is 44%. The proportion going to studies has fallen. I'm sorry about that, because we need more students. There are, of course, still major challenges, but that is a clear improvement. Unlike Jan Ericson, I see a significant difference in being in phase 3 compared to having a job, a real job with a real salary that helps to improve the lives of, for example, those living in retirement homes or in other parts of welfare. Labour participation increased during the bourgeois period. But since the first government took office, in 2014, labour force participation has increased far more than it did in bourgeois times. We have a tremendously high participation rate. It has increased by 1.4 percentage points, and I am very pleased about that. Of course, more needs to be done. I'm the first one to admit it. As Minister of Labour, I can never be satisfied when employers do not get people with the right skills for the job vacancies. This prevents the Swedish economy from growing. It prevents companies from growing in the way they want. This prevents the quality of welfare from being delivered at the level it should. Of course, it is always a failure when people looking for work cannot find a job or when the efforts you can make to help people to work do not bite. But we can make a comparison between a time with a Social Democratic Minister for Labour and a time with a moderate Minister for Labour. We can then see that there is a dramatic difference in the functioning of the labour market, in the employment rate, in unemployment and in what Jan Ericson calls exclusion and dependency on benefits. I will, of course, come back to Parliament with new proposals on how to continue to combat unemployment and how to better equip ourselves for the declining economic cycle that is likely to come eventually. I will always have the fight against unemployment at the top of my agenda.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-52	Madam President, I would like I do not doubt for a moment the good will of the Minister for Labour, but unfortunately the results show something else. Sweden is lagging behind. The whole of Europe has gone from the deepest financial crisis in modern times to perhaps one of the strongest booms since the 1980s. It is clear that it has an impact on employment trends and on unemployment. It would be very strange if it hadn't. Then we would have really had problems. The problem today is that Sweden is developing worse than our neighbours and the world around us. That is the big problem. In fact, I think the Minister for Labour is taking this a little lightly. With our industries, our entrepreneurship and our entrepreneurship, we should be able to perform much better than this when we compete with other countries. As far as the start-up mission is concerned, it's exactly what I said. The Minister for Labour says that 44% is moving on, while I said 56% are not moving forward. So it's exactly the same numbers we're talking about. Does the Minister for Labour really think it's okay that 56 percent of those who go through the start-up assignment for several years at Arbetsförmedlingen do not go on to anything at all but just go home and do nothing? The difference from the bourgeois years was the 11 per cent who went on to extra services, but that is not real jobs. It is tax-funded fake jobs that may lead to a real job, but we have not yet seen that it has produced a larger number of real jobs. This is a purely labour market measure, which means that you are unemployed. Then you haven't moved on to work. To say otherwise is actually to deceive people. The Minister for Labour takes credit for the fact that it has gone so well and also says that it was assessed in the budget bill by the government itself that half of the impact depends on politics. Unfortunately, I have not seen any other judge who has pointed this out.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-57	Madam President, I would like Of course, as Minister of Labour, one can never be satisfied as long as one person is unemployed. However, it is not correct for people who leave the establishment mission without having come to work to go home, but they participate in other labour market policies. My goal is continued, just as when I took office, that one should normally become established in the labour market or come to study within the two years of the start-up assignment. I see significant opportunities to continue improving these results. There are many lead times that are too long, partly because there have been very many people. There is therefore more to be done. Of course it is good for the labour market if you have a boom, but it is also the case that politics makes a difference, and that is what we are seeing. It is about both the economic cycle and the government's policy. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to say that if Jan Ericson does not accept the Employment Service's statistics on the results of the establishment mandate, he may still rely on Statistics Sweden's surveys, which are of a completely different type. SCB conducts once a survey which looks at last year's taxed income and, based on this, measures the establishment of the labour market. For a very long time it has taken nine years before half has been established in the labour market, and it has been relatively stable regardless of the economic cycle. In the autumn, new figures came. It is now five years before half of the newcomers, mainly refugees, are established in the labour market. It is a substantial improvement, although in a boom, in the past cyclical fluctuations have not actually affected this particular measurement. So it is moving in the right direction, and I see that we will be able to continue to improve these figures. I also look forward to continuing to debate this with Jan Ericson.
i-Vts5X2auaZ2NT8tVjdWocK	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson, Minister of State Peter Eriksson and Minister Åsa Lindhagen. A question shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject which falls within the remit of the Ministers of State and relates to the performance of their duties. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-66	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. On Tuesday, the Committee on Finance organised an open hearing on financial stability ten years after the financial crisis. Governor Ingves expressed that there are indications that Sweden is more vulnerable now. A key element in preventing the next crisis is strong public finances. I think it has probably been a mistake that the government has not used the boom of recent years to implement the necessary reforms in areas such as the labour market and the housing market and to build the shelters that could protect our vulnerable economy from recession. Sweden is now extremely vulnerable to the next recession. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Finance if she considers that the state reserves are sufficient to pursue an effective stabilisation policy at the next economic downturn.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-70	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Karlsson, for the question! It is interesting that a moderate is asking about the state of public finances. This is the third time out of three possible ways that a bourgeois government has handed over government finances with large deficits to social democrats, and three times out of three possible Social Democratic finance ministers have made sure to clean up public finances once again, put order in place and made sure that we have had surpluses and substantial margins. So also during the last parliamentary term. During the last parliamentary term, I turned the deficit left by the moderate-led government into the fact that we now have order in the state finances in line with the surplus target. Thanks to this policy, we have the lowest public debt since the 1970s. This means that the effect of bourgeois governments on state finances is now wiped out.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-73	Madam President, I would like The January agreement between the government and its support parties contains reforms of the order of SEK 60 - 65 billion. Proposals for family days and free years will undermine the work line. It is therefore reasonable to assume that the costs of the policy that the government wants to pursue during its term of office are far too high. This risks leading to a lack of economic margins in order to deal with a situation in which the economy is changing.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-74	Madam President, I would like Of course, this government led by Social Democrats will also take responsibility for public finances. We've always done that when we've been in government. If Mattias Karlsson is really worried about public finances, he should ensure that it continues to be Social Democratic finance ministers who run the country's public finances. That is how we can ensure that there is order. History has shown us that.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-75	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Magdalena Andersson because hundreds of kilograms of harmful meat have been imported from Poland to Sweden and then ended up on Swedish school food plates. So it is meat from animals that have been mistreated and that have been so ill that even tumors have been cut off from the meat. This is not the first time this type of quality deficiency has been detected. Common to these scandals is that it is about imported meat. The Swedish Democrats also advocate origin labelling on menus to strengthen consumer power and to allow more people to choose Swedish meat. We think it is reasonable that meat imported into Sweden should also comply with Swedish animal welfare rules.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-78	Madam President, I would like What has happened to the Polish meat is quite unacceptable. The problem is not that there are no laws. The problem is that there are some who have broken the laws. It is good that the meat has now been traced so that it is no longer available in Swedish trade. It's terrible that the meat has been served to schoolchildren, even to close relatives of mine. It is important to ensure that it is better control. Here, obviously, control in Poland has fallen. But it is clear that it is difficult to control when there are people who are clearly breaking the law. Then control needs to be increased. Having additional origin marking is an interesting issue that we obviously need to look further at. There are many different aspects and good points to the fact that restaurants, school canteens, elderly care and health care know where the meat comes from.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-82	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In an interview with SVT, the Minister for Rural Affairs also states that she does not think that any measures or legislative changes are needed. But the fact is that even meat that is approved in other countries and that has been imported here has been produced with lower animal welfare standards than those that we place on our Swedish meat producers.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-85	Madam President, I would like There are many different ways to work to strengthen animal welfare both in Sweden and internationally. That, of course, is something that the government will continue to work on. We have also increased the opportunities for the public to make various types of demands on the food and food they procure. Of course, there are other things to do in this area. Above all, however, it is unacceptable for the law to be deliberately violated in the way that has happened here.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-87	Madam President, I would like Sweden has set very tough climate targets. That's good, and that's something we should be proud of. Not least in the transport sector, 70% reduction in emissions is to be achieved by 2030. Therefore, it is so incredibly important that the Swedish vehicle fleet is involved in changing. To do this, we have, among other things, a bonus – Malus system in Sweden with great backing in this House – although some of us would like to tighten the rules further so that they become even better. But we also have a problem. A large part of our electric cars end up in Norway. Gas cars end up in the Netherlands and Germany after only a few years. A bonus – Malus system is not enough here. My question therefore goes to Magdalena Andersson : How will Sweden ensure that these cars stay longer here and do climate benefit in our country?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-91	Madam President, I would like Rickard Nordin raises an extremely important issue for us to meet our climate goals. In order for Sweden to be the leader in halting climate change, we need to change the Swedish fleet of vehicles. Then it is important that we work with several different instruments and that we ensure that all parts of the transport sector can help in this work. It concerns both passenger transport and goods and freight transport. An important aspect of this is to improve the ability to transport by other means than by car. This applies to public transport in general for private individuals who are going to work but also rail and boat transport for the business community. Of course, it is also important that we change the private vehicle fleet with passenger cars. There is bonus – malus such a system, but there are of course additional opportunities to develop this. It can also be about the taxation that happens when the cars are a little older.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-94	Madam President, I would like I agree with Magdalena Andersson on what she says, but I did not actually get an answer to the question. What will the government do to ensure that electricity and gas cars do not end up abroad after the first few years? Sometimes it's just a couple of months. We know that up to a third of these cars disappear after only a year. This is a huge problem. The Center Party has a proposal. We think that we should be able to have exemptions from parking and congestion tax. You could also, for example, drive in bus files and other things, as you can do in Norway. This would make a difference directly.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-97	Madam President, I would like Of course, there are several things you can do. You can look at taxation. But we also don't want very generous bonus parts in Sweden that de facto then leak out to other countries via that the cars are fairly quickly resold. Therefore, the bonus is paid out with some retroactivity. If it turns out that this is a major problem, it may require additional retroactivity in the bonus payout.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-99	Madam President, I would like My question is also addressed to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The Social Democrats went to elections to always give priority to welfare over major tax cuts. In the agreement reached between the Social Democrats and the bourgeois parties, we can see that huge tax cuts are announced in the future. In addition to the SD-M-KD budget, which has now been passed and which represents a dramatic reduction in resources to welfare, the government should add further tax cuts. Only the military tax – the tax on the absolute highest income in Sweden – which is now to be abolished means a greater investment in the government's budget than the investment in general state subsidies. How can the Social Democratic Labour Party make such a priority?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-102	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct that the abolition of the military tax was not the priority of the Social Democrats or the Green Party in the elections. But we did not get our own majority in parliament, and in order for the country to have a government, we had to give and take. This was one of the parts where we had to compromise in order for the country to have a government. At the same time, in the January agreement there are significant wordings regarding substantial additions of resources to municipalities and county councils to strengthen the common welfare. The 20 billion which, among other things, we Social Democrats spoke about in the election movement will become a reality during the term of office. Social democrats who sit in the government and rule, of course, ensure that welfare has increased resources so that all children, the sick and the elderly can have the necessary security.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-105	Madam President, I would like The jointly funded school, health care and care is the best way to equalize life chances in our society. There is a great need for new resources in healthcare and care. In addition, the government has announced that nurses and carers who have worked their entire lives will have a higher retirement age. They should not be able to retire sooner. How will severely deteriorating working conditions, such as the cutbacks, be combined with these major tax cuts?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-108	Madam President, I would like It's not about cuts, it's about extensive resource supplements for nurses, nurses and others who work in welfare. There will be 20 billion in general state subsidies for these activities. In addition, targeted state grants are made. The government will work to ensure that we all have good and safe care and healthcare, good school for all children and good working conditions and that there will be more co-workers for those who work in these activities.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-111	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Peter Eriksson on aid to Palestinian areas. During the current five-year period it is about SEK 1 1⁄2 billion. According to what is termed functionality, aid allows the Palestinian leadership to hold back on initiatives such as education, health care and so on and to give priority to other areas such as paying people convicted of terrorist crimes. The more Israeli civilians murdered in an act of terror, the higher their monthly salary is paid to the perpetrators. Last year, 7% of the Palestinian budget went to pay for terrorism.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-114	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. I think it may be important to point out that the situation in Palestine is an acute humanitarian crisis. People find themselves in a situation that is difficult to endure and have been doing so for a very long time. The fact that everything does not seem to work as it should, of course, as Mr Adaktusson seems to be in it, can be used to ignore all the people who live there and need urgent help at the moment. There are major problems, even from a democratic point of view, with regard to the Palestinian territories, but our aid goes to supporting those people who are in an appallingly difficult situation. In Palestine and in the Gaza area, the situation is indeed acute. I think there is great reason to continue with this support, but there is also a need to look at the scope and direction in the future. We will change this.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-118	Madam President, I would like Peter Eriksson ducks for the question, but there is no ducking for reality. Democracy shines with its absence. The Palestinian people have not been better off, despite the billion-dollar efforts made by the government. You're holding a corrupt political leadership under your arms. Terrorist support and the spread of anti-Semitism continue. How is it that the minister responsible accepts this?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-120	Madam President, I would like With the logic shown here by Adaktusson, every medical aid to a sick person becomes a money that could have gone where you can give money to terrorists. I think that Mr Adaktusson is showing a terrible view. We are helping sick people and people in urgent need of humanitarian aid. That's what we're going to do.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-123	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Åsa Lindhagen. It is based on the written question that I asked a few weeks ago about a deeper analysis of the age discrimination reports that exist with the Discrimination Ombudsman. I think I got a good answer then. For me, combating discrimination and promoting a society that safeguards the equal value of all people is an important issue. The government intends to move on here. My question concerns the WHO campaign against age discrimination. Will the government activate cooperation on this? The campaign started in 2016, and I still see nothing about this from government.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-125	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Mr Westerholm for the written question she put to me on the important area of age discrimination. This is a conversation conducted within my own party, and even around society this is a very important issue to address. These are also questions that I intend to ask the Equality Ombudsman to hear how they work with them so that I get even more knowledge about how it looks. On the question of the WHO, I would like to ask to come back to you. However, I thank you for the question on this subject.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-128	Madam President, I would like I want to broaden these efforts. The WHO campaign has been under way since 2016. There is also a campaign in the framework of the EU's work and through pensioners' organisations within the AGE Platform Europe. From these activities there is a lot of experience that I think we can take advantage of here in Sweden. Old age is the most difficult ground for discrimination to overcome.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-129	Madam President, I would like I agree that the issue of age discrimination is very important. When I talk about these issues, I feel that in many people there is a strong feeling that this is a problem, not least when you are at a higher age. I feel very strong aversion against all forms of discrimination. It's about people having equal opportunities.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-131	Madam President, I would like I would like to put my question to Minister Andersson. Standing up for welfare is crucial for Sweden to continue to be a safe country to live in. It is about investments in preschools, schools, retirement homes and health centres. The relationship between a strong economy and a strong welfare is very clear. It was therefore a good thing that the previous government, the Red Green Government, strengthened its finances by moving from deficit to surplus and also invested large sums of money in welfare so that it could be built. The number of older people in Sweden will increase in the coming years. For many, age and a long working life take their place. This is a success for Sweden but also places great demands on welfare. Does the Government believe that we can continue to build the strong society with increased investment in welfare?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-135	Madam President, I would like We are now entering a period when we get considerably more older. Older people live longer. We have big hills in those ages. Many children are also born in Sweden. It is fantastic that we both live longer and have many children. But it is clear that it is also a development that is binding. What it is based on is giving priority to welfare. This government will. As there are more children, we need to expand both preschools and schools and employ staff: teachers, curators, janitors and others. As we live longer and longer, we need additional health care but also more in care for the elderly. The government will ensure that there will be additional resources for the municipalities and county councils responsible for these important activities. Sweden should be a safe and good country, both to grow up in and to age in.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-137	Madam President, I would like I thank you very much for the answer to the question, which is very pleased to me and many others. We have had three weeks of a government with the Social Democrats and the Green Party supported by the Liberals and the Center Party. At the same time, however, we have a budget voted by the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. I would like to ask a question which I myself often get: when it comes to investing in welfare, how can we see that we now have a Social Democratic Minister for Finance?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-139	Madam President, I would like Of course it will be a slightly different priority. The budget that we saw had a different balance than the budgets that we will see in the future. Ensuring additional resources for welfare is an important part of the January agreement. But there are also other parts. Of course, the government will take responsibility for living up to all parts of the January Agreement to ensure the agreement that we have made.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-140	Madam President, I would like I would like to put a question to the Minister for International Development Cooperation, Peter Eriksson. The new framework for global biodiversity – or biodiversity, as we say in Sweden – was adopted at a UN summit in Egypt in autumn 2018. Managing earth's species, ecosystems, agricultural land and forests is important for human survival.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-143	Madam President, I would like I think I can answer in two ways. Firstly, we have the global 2030 targets, where we have a significant responsibility and leadership. They will be revised during the year and will be at a UN conference in September. There we have an opportunity to operate and influence that work. Secondly, we see that biodiversity plays a major role, for example, in the protection of the seas. The production capacity of the seas is quite strongly linked to biodiversity. If we can ensure that we protect it, we also ensure that food and access to food for millions of people around the world are protected. In addition, of course, it is important to ensure that agricultural land is maintained and not impoverished. It contributes both to biodiversity and to people's having food.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-145	Madam President, I would like A future ambition is to create the same level of commitment to biodiversity in the world as to climate issues. It's really needed. This UN summit in Egypt talked a lot about the need for sector responsibility for agriculture, forestry, tourism and energy, among other things. It is necessary to ensure more effective protection of biodiversity and of indigenous and human rights. Will Sweden be actively involved in this work?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-146	Madam President, I would like Sweden will definitely be actively involved in this work. But it is also the case that biodiversity is crucial for a large part of environmental work. There are strong links between the climate issue and biodiversity in a way that I think has been paid far too little attention. It's connected. We know that. The world is connected. Environmental work is connected. People's opportunities and ability to feed in the future are also linked to biodiversity.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-148	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on her enormous success: reaching the target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020 as early as 2018. Many evil commentators have sourly, jealously and bitterly pointed out that the removal of the 2020 target by the government was due to the fact that we are approaching the very year 2020. I personally felt that the objective of the EU's lowest unemployment rate was too low a target in relation to the government's willpower, competence and ability. My question is what the next unemployment target of the government is that it is planned to take a few years before it is time to evaluate it. Is it the lowest unemployment rate on the European continent in 2025, or perhaps even the lowest unemployment rate in the solar system in 2027? It would be interesting to know this government's approach to goals.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-151	Madam President, I would like It is quite brave of a moderate to raise the issue of targets. Fredrik Reinfeldt had a job case. He promised that there would be 5 million people at work by 2020. At the same time, we Social Democrats set the target of Europe's lowest unemployment by 2020. I believe that the target of at least 5 million people at work was achieved a year and a half ago. It wasn't very ambitious. However, the goal of Europe's lowest unemployment was already when a very ambitious target was set. It has governed the government's priorities and policies. This has actively contributed to the fact that, year after year, we have reduced unemployment. Every year, we have had increased employment and employment rates, although Sweden was the country in the EU that received the most refugees during the refugee crisis in 2015. I'm proud of that result.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-153	Madam President, I would like I agree. It was shameful for the Moderates to have a realistic goal that can be achieved. I would like to thank Ylva Johansson for the unrealistic objective that has been set. My question is: what are the next unrealistic goals to be pursued, as it clearly has such positive effects?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-154	Madam President, I would like We can always discuss goals, and it is very popular to do so. But I think the voters are more interested in reality. A Social Democratic Minister for Labour and a Social Democratic Minister of Finance have delivered strong labour markets, declining unemployment, increased employment, increased employment rates and significantly reduced time for newcomers to work. There are record few people who depend on different types of benefit and security systems. It is a completely different conclusion from what the Moderates have had when you have had the corresponding responsibility.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-157	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. It has recently been reported that three people who had neither a residence permit nor a work permit have cleaned premises at Arlanda Airport, which are classified as a protected object. There are more examples of similar incidents where security has been set aside because the government has not taken its responsibilities. We have Rakhmat Akilov who was illegally in the country when he carried out the attack on Drottninggatan, and we have the IT scandal with the Swedish Transport Agency. Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson signed a decision in which a woman received a security grade position in the prison care despite the lack of a residence permit, and now it applies to the three people who cleaned at Arlanda.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-161	Madam President, I would like Having order in migration is a central task for the government. It is about there being a well-ordered reception for people who come and apply for asylum in Sweden so that they have their case tried within a reasonable time. It is about those who have the right to stay in Sweden get an arranged reception, get the opportunity to educate themselves and get a job and that the children start school and become part of society. But those who are refused will also leave the country. In this respect, the number of expulsions has increased dramatically during the last parliamentary term. We reject far more people than we have before. But more needs to be done in this area. Here, the previous government has also invested, among other things, in additional detention places. But it has also invested heavily in the police so that we can ensure that people who do not have the right to reside in the country are rejected.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-164	Madam President, I would like I hear what you're saying, and I hope it's not just empty talk. It is a recurring problem with people who are illegally in Sweden and also with deficiencies in the handling of security classified information. I would also like answers to what happens to the 80 000 people who have been refused their residence permit application but are still in Sweden.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-166	Madam President, I would like It's not just empty talk. We have increased resources to, among other things, detention places so that we have far more detention places now than we had before. The number of expulsions has increased dramatically in recent years. During the last term of office, we increased the number of training places to the police. We doubled them so that we can now ensure that we employ 10 000 more police workers in the coming years. Sweden needs more resources there.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-168	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Åsa Lindhagen and concerns women's health and, more specifically, women's diseases. Unfortunately, to this day, women can still meet with uncomprehensibility when they seek medical care. Women can get a casual recommendation to invest in yoga or mental relaxation if they are looking for menstrual pain, PMS, endometriosis or menopausal symptoms. It doesn't make any sense. All women have more or less problems with their menstruation. As a young girl, it doesn't get any better because it can still be taboo to talk about your period. The menopause and transition symptoms should be a well-known diagnosis in healthcare. It's always been there. The symptoms vary, as you know, from sweating to severe irregular bleedings that can make everyday life unbearable. Women who seek care for this can meet with ignorance and get diametrically different information about measures, and many suffer in silence.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-172	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. Gender issues go into all policy areas. Not only am I the Minister for Gender Equality in the government, but we are all that on the basis of the issues we are working on. Healthcare issues are a very important area in terms of bringing the gender perspective with them. It is important to ensure that women and men receive treatment on equal terms. We see today that this is not always the case. I think Helena Vilhelmsson described this in a very good way. I hope that we will have reason to come back to these issues in the future. These are important issues that Vilhelmsson highlights.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-176	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I have hope that we can continue to highlight these issues. In the January agreement there is a special focus on women's health and an updated queue billion, which mentions, among other things, maternity care. But I want to go further. I want us to invest in girls and women regaining power over their own body. It concerns both the right to receive adequate care for problems that only affect women and the fact that we break more taboos so that girls and women can feel safe throughout their lives. While we're at it, we can take the opportunity to kick out some poor norms about the body and sexuality through the back door. Are you with me on that?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-180	Madam President, I would like I'm on those issues. It is extremely important that we have that perspective. It also rightly arouses very strong feelings when we can see that women and men are not being treated on equal terms or that we are not looking at all diseases with the seriousness required. We need to keep working on those questions.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-181	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for Gender Equality. On 19 December, the Riksdag made a decision to commission the Government to investigate how the public can better support a sustainable working life for parents. It was in the Social Security Committee that the view was expressed that an investigation was needed. It was stressed that the major family policy challenge in a time of stress is to create time for family life and working life on equal terms for men and women and to provide family conditions for time together. Public systems should be designed in such a way that society primarily supports and helps and does not control and hinder. That is what the committee's investigation directive says, as we might call it. Can the Minister for Gender Equality guarantee that we will receive the investigation decided by the Riksdag? If so, when will we see the directives in such an investigation?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-184	Madam President, I would like I'm not familiar with that decision. These are important issues that are highlighted when it comes to working life in general. If we look at women's health, not least mental ill health is very large among women. It is also about burnout and other kinds of challenges in working life. There is a great deal to be done when it comes to combining work and time outside of work. We also know that women take greater responsibility for, for example, unpaid domestic work. There are important gender issues to work with in this. Let's get back to the questions. These are extremely important issues when we talk about a sustainable working life, not least from the perspective of gender equality.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-187	Madam President, I would like We would like to see more proposals in terms of combining work and family life. From the Christian Democrats we have some different proposals for more flexible parental insurance and to extend the right to parental leave in order for more than just the parents to be able to take part in it. We also have a proposal for a job tax deduction which means that if both parents work, they can get about SEK 1 000 less in tax. It also means that they may be able to reduce their working hours somewhat.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-190	Madam President, I would like We need to come back to what we want to do on these issues. However, we can see that there are a lot of important aspects to the issue of gender equality when it comes to parental insurance, for example. For example, a third reserved month was decided during the last parliamentary term. It is a way of influencing equality. There may be different views in our parties on what measures we want to see in the future. But these are important issues that are raised here, so we will have to come back.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-193	Madam President, I would like Last week, Arbetsförmedlingen announced that the agency had decided to alert 4,500 employees to dismissal – this is due to a reduced financial grant that is a consequence of the M-KD budget that was voted for in the Swedish Parliament before Christmas. As I said, less money for the Employment Service means fewer employees and that some localities will be affected. However, it is important to stress that it is not yet clear which functions and locations will be affected. But one thing is clear: the country's unemployed will be affected.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-196	Madam President, I would like In December, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats voted through the current budget that the government and the authorities must follow. It is, in my opinion, an irresponsible and unworked budget. In the labour market area, it means savings of SEK 3.6 billion in an abrupt way. This is a fictitious calculation of laid off that cannot be carried out in reality because people its better have the security to have the notice period. This means that the Public Employment Service is faced with very abrupt cuts in the number of employees. It is likely to have consequences for the number of offices as well. But it is also about something less debated: dramatically reduced resources to help the unemployed to get to work. I regret this, and it will, of course, be my job as Minister of Labour to try to see in the future how we can deal with the situation in the best possible way for the unemployed.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-199	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. I asked the question because it is particularly important from the point of view that the availability of new jobs should be less in rural areas than in big cities. People in our socio-economically weak areas have a longer way to go than, for example, a recent graduate from Täby. I am therefore concerned about this, also on the basis of the description given by the Minister for Employment now when she presented the equality perspective in our country. Once again, I would like to thank you for your answer.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-202	Madam President, I would like We should not hide the fact that we are facing major changes. According to the January Agreement, the Public Employment Service is to be fundamentally reformed. We also have a labour market that has major challenges. However, Mr Köse can be sure that I, as a Social Democrat, will always defend the fact that we have a labour market policy that comes to those who are furthest from the labour market and that ensures that we do not leave any parts of Sweden in the lurch.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-204	Madam President, I would like Last year there was an election in Zimbabwe. Although it did not end in an outright violent orgy at the time, the choice of widespread irregularities was edged, with the result that the socialist regime is still in place. Election observers from the African Union, from the EU and from the United States have reported on fantasy figures in the electoral rolls, extensive government propaganda and pressure on civil servants to vote for the regime. In other words, it is clear that the elections have not really been conducted in a democratic manner. At the same time, Sweden pays so-called parliamentary support to Zimbabwe, that is, aid to help Parliament.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-207	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. We are providing assistance to a whole range of countries in the world where there are major problems with democracy, war and conflict. These are countries where efforts are needed to reach people and obtain humanitarian aid. If we were to give aid only to countries that function perfectly, we would not really have to give aid at all. Rather, it is often in countries with major problems that the needs are greatest. For Zimbabwe in particular, we will decide and implement a new strategy relatively soon. It will mean changes, and it has already meant changes in the aid we have given today. The development that we are seeing in Zimbabwe is not good, and it will affect aid and what it looks like.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-211	Madam President, I would like I did not think that I expressed myself in a vague way. So the issue is not aid in general and not humanitarian aid. It deals specifically with aid to a Parliament, namely that in Zimbabwe. If the aim is to support it, as I understand it as the Minister for Development says, what is the best alternative? Does Peter Eriksson think it is best to support Robert Mugabe's old power party, which controls Parliament, or the democratic opposition?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-213	Madam President, I would like I think that for many countries, such as Zimbabwe, where we see negative developments, there is reason to review aid at all that goes to state budgets or to political representatives. It is important to direct the aid that we should retain directly to opposition, to civil organisations and to people in the form of humanitarian aid. When developments go in the wrong direction, we need to change aid.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-216	Madam President, I would like Around S verige, local job tracks have created opportunities for individuals who are far from the labour market to get jobs. In my own municipality of residence, it is reported that over 70 per cent of those who have participated in what is proudly called the Vetlanda model have been employed. Adult education, local companies and Arbetsförmedlingen have managed, through close collaboration, practice, supervision and language teaching in the workplace, to get those who are farthest from the labour market in jobs while at the same time solving some of the companies' major recruitment needs.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-219	Madam President, I would like The local job tracks began to emerge last year. Today, more than 6 000 people are in a local line of work. 600 private employers and 300 public employers are involved. So far, more than 2,000 people have left their job tracks. Vetlanda is a little better than the average, but at national level 64 percent have jobs after a local job track. Seventy-eight per cent of those on the job track are people who lack upper secondary school skills. This means that job tracks play an extremely important role in the labour market in order to lead to jobs for people who are far from the labour market and to contribute to the recruitment needs of businesses and public employers. Labour market policy faces major challenges as the current budget represents major cuts. But I think it would be crazy not to continue with the local job tracks, which show such good results.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-222	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As the Minister for Labour says, it is worrying about the huge savings that went through as the Right voted through its budget here in Parliament. Then there is also a concern around the country if the job tracks are to continue.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-225	Madam President, I would like I am very aware of the concerns that exist both in the Public Employment Service and in all those who cooperate with the Public Employment Service, particularly in those areas where successful results have been achieved, in the light of the major cuts and the great concern that has been spread through the budget. As soon as possible, I will try to put an end to this concern. I will come back to that question.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-227	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Åsa Lindhagen. After the report in Cold facts about how people are suspected of crimes based on appearance and after the events in Stockholm metro last week, strong reactions have come, and there has also been a discussion about discrimination and racial profiling in Sweden. Reports from both the Crime Prevention Council and Civil Rights Defenders point to fundamental problems with individuals being suspected on the basis of provenance and skin color. It is a method which confirms feelings of exclusion and which creates a problem of lack of confidence in the police, the judiciary and our authorities as a whole.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-230	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. Do we generally have a problem with racism in Sweden? Yes, we do. The previous government developed a plan against racism that runs on. We will continue to work on that plan. These are extremely important issues, not least in these times when we also see racist forces growing in different ways. Just the fact that you can feel a concern about being treated differently based on, for example, what you look like is a problem in itself. Is there a job to do? Yes, absolutely! What the honourable Member is raising about the lack of confidence is also extremely important. We need to work so that people can feel safe and have confidence in our authorities.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-233	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am very proud to have an anti-racist and feminist government in place. In our society, we should not have a Vi-team and a Doom-team. There's only supposed to be us. Wherever racism occurs, it must be resisted. Therefore, I would also like to ask: what does the Government see as the most important measures within the Government portfolio in terms of reducing discrimination and segregation?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-235	Madam President, I would like There are several different parts. On the one hand, I highlighted the plan against racism. That work, which began in the previous parliamentary term, must continue. I also believe that, as the Prime Minister has said, we have reason to tighten up the legislation on discrimination and look at that issue. It is based on a variety of factors. We must ensure that legislation on discrimination becomes a stronger tool, not least in our workplaces. So there are several things to do. These were just two that I mentioned briefly.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-237	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ylva Johansson and is about fatal accidents at our workplaces. Every day millions of Swedes wave goodbye by their loved ones and close ones when they go to work, usually with the sentence Unfortunately, despite the zero vision of fatal accidents at work, 58 workers lost their lives in 2018 just as they did their job to serve their country. There were 58 people who never came home from work – like the 20-year-old young woman who was squeezed to death in a production machine in Ronneby or the 60-year-old railway worker who was squeezed between freight wagons when he was doing a job at the railway in Borlänge.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-240	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Kadir, for raising one of the most important issues in this House! It is totally unacceptable for a single person to die at or from his work. In the autumn, the number of fatal accidents in Sweden increased. We've spent years on barely one deceased person a week. That's an extremely high figure, I think. So far this year– it's now 7 February– ten people have lost their lives in their jobs. Nine of them were employed in Swedish companies and are included in the Swedish statistics, while one worked in Sweden but was employed by a foreign company. These are the most important issues on my table, and those are the issues I will address first. I intend to do what is necessary to reverse the trend and bring the fatal accidents to work. I will come back with more in the next speech.
i-Ht7vaafGrNGe648SR6UMJa	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Ylva Johansson, for your answer! We Social Democrats believe that for anyone who goes to work, employees or entrepreneurs, the right to come home after the working day should be inviolable. Then there is an M-KD budget that is in force today. There are side effects that affect the working environment. How are we going to deal with that question?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-246	Madam President, I would like A rbetsmarknadspolicy received a significant increase in resources during the last term of office and retained those resources. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has been able to employ about 100 new inspectors. We have a work environment strategy in place with a zero vision. We've started a lot of work to get to the bad guys. I have recently invited the social partners and the relevant authorities with their experts, as well as representatives of the sectors that are particularly affected, to discuss and identify with them what is most effective. We have to reverse the trend.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-249	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Lindhagen. Last year men earned 12% more than women in Sweden. That means that women work free after noon. 16.02 every working day. It is then calculated on a working day between 8 a.m. and 5 a.m. It's almost an hour that women work for free every day. This has an impact on women's wages and pensions and contributes to many women's difficulties in supporting themselves and their families. This is a great injustice, but it is also a major structural problem for the whole of society, not just for women.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-253	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hillevi Larsson, for the question! It's extremely important. Although we take into account a variety of parameters, we still see that there is an inappropriate pay gap between women and men, and that is totally unacceptable. The previous government pushed through that we should have pay surveys every year. Then we also have anti-discrimination legislation that clearly states that every employer should take active measures to combat discrimination. Here we have a challenge. On the one hand, not all employers know about the legislation and that they have this responsibility. On the one hand, I think there is a need to see whether we can introduce greater sanctions against those who do not take active measures to combat discrimination. These include, for example, the work on pay surveys that employers have to do every year. It must also lead to results. If we see that there are inappropriate pay differentials, they must be addressed.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-256	Madam President, I would like I think it is very good that the government is making clear demands, because this is discrimination that hits half the workforce. You can clearly see that it all starts when women have children. That's when they start to be discriminated against. For men, however, the opposite is true: the chances of getting a higher salary actually increase when they have children. That's crazy! Good luck at work, Minister! That is very important!
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-258	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view of women's economic power. The inappropriate pay gap is a very important area in terms of gender equality policy. I say thank you very much to Hillevi Larsson for raising this issue. Sweden's ability to cope with a forthcoming recession
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-261	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. No one likes people who walk around telling uncomfortable truths at a family reunion or at a party. At the same time, those people are sometimes important, even though they are annoying, precisely because they force us to face the truth. There seems to be a human shortage: we believe that economic bubbles never fail, and we believe that prosperity does not pass into recession. But the truth is, we're at the peak of a boom and we're having a recession lurking around the corner. My question to the Minister for Finance is simply: How well equipped is Sweden for a recession?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-265	Madam President, I would like The Swedish economy is extremely strong. After the economic policy of recent years, we are now in a position of order in public finances. Our public finances are in line with the surplus target that we have in the fiscal framework. We have paid off on the public debt, so we now have the lowest public debt since the 1970s. So we have order in public finances, and there are substantial margins if necessary. In addition, we have a strong starting position in that it is very strong in the labour market. We have the highest employment rate ever measured in any EU country. We have a falling unemployment rate. We have a youth unemployment rate that has fallen back considerably. We also have a much faster start-up for new arrivals in the labour market. Sweden thus has a strong starting point for all eventualities.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-269	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for a reassuring answer! I'm a member of Stockholm County. Many municipalities in this region have large debts precisely because they have grown during the 70s and 80s. Other municipalities have a weaker economy for other reasons. My question to the Minister for Finance is: how can we, when the recession comes, ensure that the finances of the municipalities are secured and thus also secure welfare throughout our elongated country?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-272	Madam President, I would like We already have in the plans that there is a lot of additional resources for our municipalities and county councils, because we know that there will have to be a lot of staff there in the coming years due to demographic changes. If we were to get into a more serious economic situation – this is pure speculation – there are good margins. And resources for municipalities and county councils are usually something that governments, in fact, regardless of colour, prioritise.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-274	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The growing economic gap is causing great concern and is damaging both the cohesion and solidarity of our country. We Social Democrats stand for equality and for a strong welfare. At the same time, the January Agreement represents a series of compromises, including tax and deduction changes that do not improve the distribution policy.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-277	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct that there are some tax changes in the January agreement that were not what we Social Democrats would have wanted first and foremost, but one must always give and take in an agreement. There are also, in the January agreement, important measures to reduce disparities. It is not least that we want to secure the welfare of our municipalities and county councils through a very comprehensive supply of resources. There is a very strong redistributive force in the fact that the Director and the person working at the reception get equal quality of both healthcare and care for the elderly. Hopefully, their children also go to the same school. In addition, last week we put forward proposals to strengthen the economy of the most deprived pensioners. We also want to raise the pension for those who have worked a long life but still have too low a pension. We want to abolish the pensioner's tax. In addition, the tax reform to be implemented is aimed at reducing economic disparities.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-281	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the very Social Democratic answer. How does the Minister of Finance think that an extended RUT deduction can be directed more towards those who really need these services so that it is not just an extended Djursholm deduction?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-282	Madam President, I would like Let's see if you can do anything special with RUT for the elderly. The tripled ceiling in RUT may sound like a bigger reform than it is. It is well 2% of those using RUT services that are hitting the ceiling today, and the public financial impact of this expansion will be minimal.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-284	Madam President, I would like Barbro Westerholm raised the very important issue of ageism – direct and indirect discrimination against older people. My question is related to this. I am starting from a sentence in the Government Declaration which promises the establishment of an independent human rights institution. This is not a new issue. It's been under discussion for years. In fact, a thorough and thorough investigation has been carried out, which has been located for a while at the then Ministry of Culture. But it is an important issue, and the investigation reviews both the mandate of such an institution and how it should be organised. It is partly based on similar institutions in other European countries. My question is: how much more preparation is needed to start implementing the promise made in the government declaration?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-287	Madam President, I would like Thank you for Thomas Hammarberg bringing up the human rights institution! This has been a very important issue on which the previous government has been working. It is clear that what is now before us is to get the institution in place. Just as Thomas Hammarberg describes, an investigation has been carried out. Now we need to take steps forward to get the institution in place, quite simply. We will have to come back to exactly how quickly this can happen, but it is a very important issue that we need to take all the way into goal.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-289	Madam President, I would like I believe that one problem which has caused confusion is that there has been concern that such an institution would clash with some existing institutions, such as the Ombudsman for Discrimination. You have to avoid that. This must be another type of organisation. It shall not deal with individual complaints– other institutions shall do so. But I hope that the time has now come to put this idea into practice, because it would strengthen the protection of human rights in our society.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-290	Madam President, I would like I fully share that view. The work to strengthen and constantly protect human rights and drive development forward and see how Sweden can continue to be at the forefront of human rights both here and internationally will continue with vigour. The human rights institution is an important part of this work in the future.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-292	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Magdalena Andersson about cash handling. Cash handling in Sweden is an issue that has been up to date for quite some time, especially since the banks stopped handling cash and especially for those of us who live in rural areas. The company Kassagirot has now also decided to terminate the agreement with 300 representatives around the country, out of 460 in total, including in Alstermo, in Uppvidinge Municipality, in Kronoberg County. This means that there will be no place in the entire municipality where you can deposit money, either as an association or as a private person. It must be possible to manage money throughout the country, and it is actually important for individuals, associations and companies to be able to do so. You shouldn't actually have to keep the money in the mattress just because you live in the countryside.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-296	Madam President, I would like Monica Haider addresses a problem that exists in our sparsely populated areas, not least for the elderly who live there. Of course, it should be possible to have cash all over Sweden. It is not only the government that thinks so, but also the parliament, where a united parliamentary committee has made a proposal that the big banks should take greater responsibility for cash management. The government has gladly received the proposal and sent it out for a referral, and right now there is a consultation position at the Ministry of Finance. The government will then come back to the matter.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-298	Madam President, I would like The interim report proposes that cash handling be regulated even by law. My supplementary question, therefore, is whether it is something that the government will consider.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-299	Madam President, I would like This has therefore been out for consultation, and it is an important part of the legislative work in Sweden that all the relevant bodies have the opportunity to give their views. Right now you're sitting at the Ministry of Finance looking through the referrals. The government will then come back with its position on the matter and, if it is a matter of legislation, put it on the table of Parliament.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-300	Madam President, I would like In SVT's program Swedish news recently struck Jesper Rönndahl for more Swedes to register for the donation register. After the program, 18,000 people declared that they wanted to donate their organs after they died. Jesper Rönndahl showed with his program that there is enormous potential for more organ donations in Sweden. More donations save more lives. It's as simple as that. If a satirist from Lund can achieve this, I think that the state must be able to do much more, and therefore my question will be to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson : How does the government work to enable more organ donations in Sweden?
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-303	Madam President, I would like Jesper Rönndahl made a fantastic success in connection with the TV show on Friday night. Now I hope that everyone who watches TV from this Question Time in the Riksdag will also sign up for the National Board of Health and Welfare's donation register and we will see if Gustaf Lantz and I manage to make the same success. I also hope, of course, that the Members sitting in this House will do what they can to draw the attention of more people to the importance of registering for this register. The government does not sit still, nor before Jesper Rönndahl, but has set up an investigation and commissioned Sten Heckscher to see how to increase the number of organ donors in Sweden. The investigation will be handed over to the government, and then the usual preparations will be made. The government, of course, wants to do more on this issue.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-305	Madam President, I would like It sounds very good that the Minister of Finance is on the same track as me. I am an impatient type and will therefore not sit and wait, but I will also be active on this issue. Like the Minister for Finance, I often speak, not least in our party, and I have noticed that Fair Trade chocolate is a popular gift. That's good, but next time it would also be appropriate for someone to put in an envelope that they have signed up for the donation register, and I'm happy with that gift. Perhaps the Minister for Finance is also when she comes to Uppsala County.
i-be2806d2ef0b5f34-307	Madam President, I would like If Gustaf Lantz invites me to my hometown Uppsala, I will be happy to come, and I am happy to receive gifts from many organ donors. Perhaps we can join forces at our old high school, for example.
