i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-0	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a new government. After a long formation of government, on the basis of the January agreement with the Centre Party and the Liberals, a minority with the Social Democrats and the Green Party has taken up their duties. This is a new situation in Swedish politics. With this agreement in the middle, there is the basis for doing the best for our country. There is now parliamentary support for ambitious reforms. Around Europe and the world, right-wing populist and extreme nationalist parties have gained power and influence. However, Sweden has chosen another route. Sweden has problems in a number of areas, but we also have the tools to solve these problems. Our public finances are good thanks to the financial responsibility of the last parliamentary term. The labour market is very strong; the employment rate in Sweden is the highest measured in any EU country. The fight for jobs and full employment is always a priority for a social democratic-led government. The country has what is necessary to tackle the problems. Madam President, I would like The starting point for central cooperation in Swedish politics is the defence of the foundations of liberal democracy: a strong rule of law, an unwavering protection of the individual's rights and freedoms, resistance to xenophobia and defence of independent free media, equality, equality and equal opportunities regardless of background. But to secure democracy and open society, more than big words are needed. People's government must have the power to tackle problems that people experience. Those of us who have gained the confidence of voters should show that we are able to improve the lives of people in everyday life, and that throughout our country. Future confidence and trust grow as jobs increase, when new homes are built, and when the welfare is there for everyone. It grows when we break the criminal gangs and their power and when people feel safe where they live, no matter who they hang out with and no matter how they are dressed. It grows as we fully recognise the scale of the climate crisis and shift society towards sustainability. It grows when everyone who has worked an entire working life knows that old age does not mean poverty but a reasonable pension that is not taxed more heavily than wages. Madam President, I would like About a week ago, about 100 students began their new police training at Malmö University. When they are finished, they will be a very important addition to a growing police force. The new crime that has emerged frightens — ruthlessness, the availability of heavy weapons, and threats to witnesses. Worst victims are common honest people in the vulnerable areas where the criminal gangs often operate. We know what needs to be done to break the gangs; we are in the middle of this work. There are more police officers and tougher penalties for serious gun crimes and abuse of justice that are crucial, but it is also about better school outcomes and a living civil society in all residential areas, especially the vulnerable. The state will break the gangs, but long-term change requires the commitment of society as a whole. Madam President, I would like In Swedish politics there are basically two approaches to tackling unemployment: either you lower the price of those who do not have a job or you raise their value. For example, the former is done with constantly lower wages; the latter is done by giving new skills to the unemployed. My experience is that low wages do not solve unemployment. If you need to hire a bus driver, it doesn't matter if the salary cost is SEK 5 per hour – it is the bus driver's license that is essential. In jobs where demand is high, we need to have the capacity to train more, both to tackle unemployment and to manage recruitment to welfare and to other sectors that need to employ. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a small country with a proud tradition of participating in the global conversation. For decades we have done what we can to contribute to peace, disarmament and development. It is a work that is also in our own interests. The international order that we have been able to rely on is now being called into question. Trade wars between the United States and China threaten economic stability, and our own European family is plagued by Britain's withdrawal. We have the world's most violent conflicts, which seem to be going on with difficulty in bringing an end. Violence in Syria affects us particularly through the many victims who have been given refuge in our country. In Sweden too, there are forces that want us to turn away from our surroundings and leave European cooperation, but the EU is a necessary part of the solution to Sweden's challenges. The EU can certainly work better for ordinary people and for our whole country, but leaving this cooperation would put jobs, welfare and security at great risk. This spring, Sweden is going to the European Parliament elections, and I will take the debate with those who want to see Sweden leave the EU at every opportunity that is given. Madam President, I would like Sweden is too small a country for major conflicts. If we can avoid fragmentation and extremism and that they take root in the Swedish debate, the opportunities for broad political cooperation are good. This is a new situation in Swedish politics. The basis is laid for important reforms. The tools in terms of resources and political will exist. Let's get on with the political work. I feel the desire for work and confidence in this, both the cooperation and the compromises.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-17	Madam President, I would like Then Sweden finally got a government, more than four months after the election and after the longest and strangest formation of government in modern Swedish history. It is exactly the same left-wing government as before the elections, only less: 116 of Parliament's 349 seats. It is a government constellation that only unites in what they are against, which lacks a common political idea and which is to hold together through the threat of mutual mistrust or common fear of extra elections. The Social Democrats are now going to implement what they have been fighting for decades. This is the political pact of the unwilling. There are many ironies here, such as that I would experience being politically repressed on the right track by Jonas Sjöstedt in the desire to lower the tax for those who earn the most. That's a little unexpected. The removal of the military tax is fundamentally wise, but the Social Democrats would have roared furiously if we had done so. I therefore lift my hat and thank Jonas Sjöstedt!
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-20	We Moderates now come with commitment to pursue constructive opposition with equal emphasis on both words, constructive to do the very best for Sweden, opposition because every democracy needs an alternative that wholeheartedly stands up for its own values and does not bargain for others. The Moderates will be a bourgeois party one can trust. Madam President, I would like In reality, there are still major problems that dominated the whole election year: care queues where sick people wait unreasonably long, thousands of nines who leave comprehensive school without grades to high school or the opportunity to work, failed integration that becomes segregation and exclusion, and serious organised crime that recruits children into crime. None of this took a four-month break just because the formation of the government did, because Sweden has no temporary problems. The new old government now inherits its political failures. There have been 125 shootings since September, most recently yesterday at Ica in Järfälla and the day before yesterday in Tensta. Children attack each other with a knife, the other week at a school in Tyresö and on Saturday at a youth farm outside Västerås. Three children are now suspected of attempted murder. Those of us who are teenage parents feel and understand the anxiety. Are our kids safe out there? Could they be out on a Saturday night, like we could? The border police are again alerting us that we do not have control over Sweden's borders. A police inspector in Stockholm tells us that they lack everything from premises to computers. This is a Sweden where the social contract itself creaks in the joints, where hardworking taxpayers feel that the state does not stand for its part of the contract. That the January agreement now promises to abolish the military tax is great. The fact that it threatens to introduce a free year is a terrible thing. But almost nothing in this reluctant agreement is, of course, aimed at the most acute problems of our time. The January Agreement has sharper proposals to build more terraces than to combat more crimes. It says nothing about how the dependency on subsidies in Sweden should be broken, because this is a government that prioritises other things. There's a hurry with patios and free passages. Then the core tasks of the state will have to wait. We Moderates went to elections to re-establish the Swedish social contract. We have proposals that strengthen the defence, that lead Sweden into NATO and that give the police, customs and courts the tools they need. And Sweden needs a major benefit reform, not a new leave package. Sweden simply needs real bourgeois politics. Madam President, I would like If Sweden doesn't get to grips with the problems, all politics becomes an ongoing fire brigade call – politics to survive the day, not politics that makes us ready for tomorrow. So we must not only address Sweden's problems but also address Sweden's opportunities. Firstly, Sweden needs a new entrepreneurship policy. If Sweden is to remain a world-leading knowledge nation, more people must be able and willing to read the most difficult and longest educations. With the M-KD budget in December, everyone is now getting reduced tax, but the high marginal taxes continue to penalise what we should reward. Sweden should have a government that always stands up for the Swedish business community because it wants it, not a government that does it sometimes because it is forced to do so. Secondly, Sweden needs a new policy on equality, cohesion and social mobility. Swedish equality links us to our history of free and self-serving farmers. It binds together city and country, women and men, rich and poor. It encourages curiosity and willingness to risk. But equality can no longer be based on ever higher taxes for those who work and ever higher contributions for those who do not, for now it is knowledge that determines equality. And only knowledge can break exclusion where children never see their parents go to work, where adults don't speak Swedish or understand our country's written laws and unwritten rules, where hundreds of thousands of people never get a chance to their own class trip and where many children don't even get to learn how to solve that ticket. Madam President, I would like The Moderates will now be in full force bourgeois opposition to this government. We will show how Sweden can choose a much better path. And that task, Madam President, will sooner or later lead to another change, for bourgeois politics thrives and is best driven in a bourgeois government.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-33	Madam President, I would like Finally, after more than four months of chaos, we have a government in place and a prime minister. It's not a new prime minister, it's not a new government. Despite the fact that both government parties clearly went backwards in the elections last autumn, it is still the same prime minister and the same parties that are in power in Rosenbad. Of course, it is then thought that this was not at all the will expressed by the voters in September. In fact, this government was voted out. At the same time, Madam President, this government is not sitting there on the same terms as in the last parliamentary term. We see a new political landscape emerging, and in the new landscape the government is not just a marked left-wing government. It represents the entire left-wing liberal majority here in Parliament, albeit in the form of an extremely weak minority government on paper. From this perspective, Madam President, these developments are neither surprising nor particularly illogical – quite the contrary. This is what it looks like in the world around us. Sweden has become a more normal country in a European context. Even Swedish politics would sooner or later end up in a situation where the issues that are relevant in the present time may also be at the heart of how the political map is drawn. In essence, it is a positive thing, something that should be acknowledged, although I would have preferred, of course, to have seen a very different majority from the left-wing liberal alliance which is the basis for the formation of government at the moment. Madam President, I would like Against this left-wing liberal alliance, the Swedish Democrats are in opposition. We will be an offensive opposition, an offensive opposition to the lax management of serious organised crime, against demandless and divisive integration policies, against the announced return to an irresponsible migration policy, against tax cuts for the richest at the expense of dying cancer patients and children with disabilities, against ineffective environmental policies that impoverish rural areas and Swedish competitiveness. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats will be an offensive conservative opposition in the Swedish Parliament. Every day, here in the Swedish Parliament, we will fight for security – security in streets and squares, security in the home, security at work, security in old age, security in the event of unemployment and security in the event of illness. Madam President, I would like We will fight to restore a people's home built on community, homeliness, trust, diligence and duty. Every day we will fight for the Sweden that so many Swedes still know their country, as the secure cohesive Sweden. It is also open Sweden, the Sweden that understands the importance of cooperation and trade with the outside world, that understands that common problems are best solved through joint efforts and that sees as its responsibility to help in those parts of the world where living conditions are significantly worse than here. It is a Sweden that also takes responsibility for this openness and does not allow openness to jeopardise the welfare, security, cohesion and our right to shape our society itself, a Sweden that does not jeopardise the actual portal clause in the government form: All public power is based on the people. Madam President, I would like These are our priorities during this parliamentary term.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-41	Madam President, I would like Over the past five months, the focus has been on the eight parties in the Riksdag and their party leaders. But social problems have not waited for Sweden to have a new government in place. Sweden is still facing major problems. We see how the job gap between native and foreign born still divides our country. We see how the climate threat of continuing high emissions from the transport sector has a negative impact on both our country and our planet. We see how threats to gender equality, the rule of law and humanity from right-wing populist forces persist and in some cases have grown stronger. Sweden is a country with far too high mental illness, where your place of residence determines how quickly you get care and help when you need it. If we are to meet these challenges, we need a much more liberal reform policy. The government that took office last week was not my or the Center Party's favorite solution, but when almost all the other parties were locked in their positions, the choice was ultimately between a government dependent on two liberal parties and a government dependent on xenophobic right-wing populists. In a difficult parliamentary situation, the Center Party chose to take responsibility and demonstrate its capacity for action. We chose a solution in which we had a proper impact on liberal center party politics. We have had an agreement in place that means that politics is beginning to respond to the problems facing Sweden and where there will be more liberal reforms than during the last two terms of office. The unfortunate left turn of the previous parliamentary term has thus been interrupted. If Sweden is to become a stronger country tomorrow, the conditions for companies must be improved. It is companies that create jobs and enable more people to have colleagues, be part of a context and have a salary. Life must be easier but also more fun for those who choose to invest in their dream to start a business and hire employees. That is why we have so stubbornly pushed for lower employers' contributions, to reduce the regulatory burden and to reduce the tax burden both for the operator and for the worker. That is why we have fought to liberalise the labour market and lower the thresholds to the first job of new arrivals. If Sweden is to become a safer country, the care will be there for you and me. Then we have to eliminate the inequality in that it takes different lengths of time before you get to see doctors or nurses depending on where in the country you live. All people should have the same opportunity for a dignified life, and therefore the Center Party has the full focus on shortening care queues, introducing fixed medical contact, providing people with mental ill health care and support faster and, not least, restoring LSS and personal assistance. These are not just health care reforms but freedom and security reforms that make a real difference in people's lives. If our country is to remain at the forefront of the green transition, our environmental and climate work must not stop. We must reduce emissions from the transport sector, we must ensure that our everyday lives do not contain dangerous toxins and we must make it clear and easy to choose the solutions that are best for ourselves and our climate. That is why we are resolutely working for a powerful green tax shift and pushing for a green fossil-free transport sector through a reinforced climate bonus for passenger cars, a ban on microplastics and environmental taxes on dangerous chemicals. For the Center Party, it is also crucial that the whole country gets equal conditions so that you have the same opportunities and conditions no matter where you choose to live. We are the guarantor of this perspective in Swedish politics. In the January agreement we have produced clear freedom reforms for the Swedish countryside. We have pushed to strengthen private ownership of the forest. We have achieved a thorough change in beach protection legislation in order to create better conditions for living, building and running businesses throughout the country. Madam President, I would like In a messy parliamentary period, the January Agreement brings broad support to the Swedish Parliament. Work is now beginning to implement the agreement. The content will become a reality. The content should be implemented to change people's everyday lives for the better. During its term of office, the Center Party will be a strong and constructive opposition and a liberal motor for Sweden to have the liberal reform policy that it so badly needs.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It is really now that the new mandate begins in earnest, and it does so in a completely new political landscape. Sweden is now governed by the Right-hand settlement of the Social Democrats. If we had instead had left-wing cooperation and left-wing politics had applied, quite different proposals, ideas and thoughts for our country would have been on the table, because our picture of what Sweden needs is completely different. We had not eroded the security of employment, we had removed the general deadline and stopped the planing. Instead of a tax policy that unilaterally benefits the most well-paid men, we would have invested in raising wages in women-dominated occupations. We had not even thought about market rents, but extended the support to build cheap rentals, introduced state top loans and had a housing policy that can be affordable. There are parties in this House who are passionate about things that have tripled RUT deductions and reduced unemployment funds. I think it is a petty and visionless policy. We left-wingers burn instead of a dental reform with a high cost protection that allows everyone to afford to go to the dentist and fix their teeth. We are passionate about health insurance that can be trusted, where sick people are not taken out in financial insecurity. For us, it is clear what Sweden needs. Sweden needs more equality, not less. Instead, we now have the right-wing settlement of the Social Democrats. It actually means on point after point that the class differences will increase in Sweden. It says so black on white: Clas differences will increase in Sweden. This will fundamentally affect our society. What happens to preventing crime when the gap between different districts and different families is allowed to become deeper? Yeah, it doesn't get any easier. What happens to health in a society that is becoming increasingly unequal? Well, we know that both mental and physical ill health is on the increase, and we know exactly who will be affected. Clarification affects all parts of life, even the most basic, namely how many years people live. Now this is done with open eyes; now the class differences in Sweden are increasing. Inequality is also crucial to our major destiny of climate policy. The climate crisis requires a huge change. It requires all of us to contribute and change the way we live to solve this. But it's not government policy. The government gives a free letter to the richest. They can increase their consumption and buy more cars and make more flights because they get the big tax cuts. But everyone pays the high environmental taxes that come instead. That's what you do when you have a climate policy that ordinary people know isn't there for them, where some get a sour cream and can continue to destroy the climate for others. This is how one undermines the whole belief that it is possible to resolve the climate issue together as a society. The climate crisis requires equality, and the climate crisis demands that those who destroy the planet most change their lifestyle most. It is the opposite of this policy. Then we also need to do something about the big emissions, that our pension money is deducted directly from the AP funds and that we help the industry to switch with a green investment bank so that the big emissions can disappear. What we see is not surprising. We have seen this in a number of European countries where the Social Democracy goes right. Instead of offering an alternative to right-wing politics, the differences are blurred. It is in this situation that we need a clear left – a left that formulates the alternatives, the proposals and the visions of a society that holds together and where there is a "we" in Sweden, a party that pushes for feminism and equality and stands up for the values of democratic socialism and feminism. This party is now the Left Party. We are the Left Opposition.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-63	Madam President, I would like Looking at the aftermath of the January agreement has been a little bit like looking at the world through a laughter mirror– you know, up there getting down and down getting up. We have government parties talking about change, even though it is now becoming more of the same as it has been. We have cooperation parties that call themselves part of the opposition, and the left wing that boasted that they were the tongue of the wave voted yellow and turned out to be politically impotent. It is difficult to get a clear picture of the situation in Swedish politics, and this is not really due to a lack of clarity among the viewers, but because the outlines of Swedish politics are currently so weak. The January Agreement is a patchwork of mixed reforms from the various parties. It is not combined with a common vision of where you want to take Sweden, but it is the result of a rather banal bazaar trade where you have sold and bought parts of each other's politics. Finally, the cooperation parties are bound together by one thing: to oppose. They claim to cooperate against populism and extremism, but I say that their cooperation will unfortunately fatten extremism as well as populism. I'm worried about Sweden – not as a country, because we've managed much harder things than this before. However, I am concerned that we will miss opportunities to change and improve and that many will suffer unnecessarily from bad decisions. I am concerned about the impact of the economic policy shown in the January agreement. The tax on the richest is going down. It's guaranteed. Grants should be increased for those who do not have jobs – it is also guaranteed. At the same time, expenditure should be pushed upwards with re-imposed building subsidies, more environmental-partisan treats to various special interests with dubious effect and a new money-sole to municipalities without clear stop-calls for boasting and waste-making clauses. One might ask: Who will pay? There is only one group left that can reasonably pick up the bill, and it is the Swedish middle class – families with children, ordinary workers and officials, all without ten-tag solutions, 3:12 withdrawals, employee options or extra grants. Where are they in government policy? I am also concerned about the distorted housing policy. The agreement states that construction subsidies should be reintroduced. Both Jonas Sjöstedt and Annie Lööf talk about the housing allowance being raised, but on top of this market rents will be introduced in new production. So it won't be chopped or ground. It will be both C and V politics in a strange mashup that doesn't sound very good. So we should first give a bag of tax money directly to the property owners when they build. Then there will be another distribution of a bag of tax funds to their customers, so that they can pay more – this while the property owners themselves will be allowed to charge any rent they want. In fact, there will be almost feudal politics. Ordinary people are to be taxed to fatten landowners without requiring them to bring any social benefit. Capital increases rents and government housing allowances.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-70	Now I haven't lived that long, but I haven't been through this before. Above all, however, I am concerned about the wrong priorities in welfare. There is not a single word in either the January Agreement or the Government Declaration on more retirement homes and not a word on how to improve the human resources situation. Instead, there is a desire to introduce free clothing within the home service. It is of course okay for me, but when I meet my employees in the care of the elderly, it is the staff shortage and the need for more care homes that they lift up with me. Sweden is in need of change, and in the elections six out of ten voters voted for parties that claimed to stand for change. But Stefan Löfven is still Prime Minister. Many things in Swedish politics are now contourless, but one thing is crystal clear: Christian Democrats continue to stand for change.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-73	Madam President, I would like Almost no place on earth can match the degree of freedom, equality and openness that we have in our country. But freedom does not benefit everyone. I see a risk– we've seen it for a long time– for an emerging underclass of low-skilled immigrants in our suburbs who can't make a living. In the wake of this follows exclusion, crime and insecurity. Clefts growing through increased segregation will continue to be challenging, especially when the recession is approaching. That is why the liberalisation of the labour market, with lower thresholds and simple jobs, which is now being implemented and which will be implemented are very important. The liberalisation of the housing market leading to a higher level of housing construction than would otherwise have been the case is also very important. The insurance tax is abolished, and taxes on both jobs and companies are reduced – all in order to increase dynamism, growth and job creation in Sweden. There will be more RUT deductions that will lead to more jobs, and there will be more simple jobs. The truth is that the economic policy which is now being criticised from the right in this House is more to the right than that of the Alliance Government. This is good for Sweden; bourgeois liberal reforms are needed in Swedish economic policy. In terms of strengthening integration, we need other measures in addition to economic reforms. We are putting an end to new religious free schools, not least in our suburbs where they grow. There will be language requirements for citizenship, compulsory language preschool and a significantly tougher, clearer and tougher attitude to honour culture and honour-related violence. The rule of law needs to be restored. There will be 10,000 more police employees over a few years and more severe penalties. At school, proposals are being made to raise the level of knowledge – proposals that the Social Democrats have been fighting for a very long time. It will be free for grades in four and sharper rules for order and studyo in our classrooms. We are preparing for a nationalisation of the school, for greater equivalence. These are measures that lead to increased focus on knowledge and more studyo. It is about more students reaching the goals of school, and those who today fail will have new opportunities. The LSS reform is to be restored. It's a big win for those who need freedom the most. As far as health care is concerned, I note that responsibility is very shared in this House. In all major county councils and regions today, bourgeois alliance majorities are in control. Let us cooperate widely, both here and in the county councils, to shorten the growing healthcare queues. Madam President, I would like The result of the elections was not what we Liberals wanted. We worked for a bourgeois electoral victory, but in a difficult parliamentary situation we liberals have been prepared to take responsibility for Sweden through cooperation in the middle political field. Parliament is more polarized than in a hundred years. This is because voters are more polarised than in a hundred years. In this social climate, we must not lose our minds. If we are to hold Sweden together, politics must be shaped in the middle field. The alternative to the January agreement in the middle field had been a government that had completely rested in the hands of the Swedish Democrats. Instead, the influence of both the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party is being minimised. That's why they're both so angry. At the same time, we liberals are getting through many important liberal reforms. Madam President, I would like The liberal model of society, which has been so successful in the Western world, is today challenged and threatened just across the Western world. Globalisation and internationalism are the word for Donald Trump, Le Pen and Jimmie Åkesson. It is an ideological choice that the whole of the Western world really faces and which is not just about the level of military taxes or rental models, but about the values on which our model of society should be based. The great struggle in this context stands between the liberal social model and a more right-wing nationalist line of thought that is now growing and dominant in much of our part of the world. The next major test will be the European elections in May. Should we have more or less cooperation in our continent, openness or solitude, free trade or protectionism? For us Liberals, the answer is given: the European Union is created to build freedom, peace and prosperity. We solve this together in common challenges. Europe needs more cooperation, not less.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-85	Madam President, I would like In the gassing heat of a dump in Ghana, Ekow balances on a mountain of electronic scrap. The sun burns, and the edges of the circuit boards cut lacerations in the feet and legs. What was our gadgets is now his junk, and tonight Ekow stands in the toxic black smoke and tries to burn something of value out of what was a work tool or a toy a short while ago. In the Mediterranean waves a rubber raft bumps. Little Rana just fell asleep in Amina's arms. They chose the escape. Amina can hardly remember a life before the drought, war and fear. The next wave could be the last, and yet it would have been more dangerous to stop. Carita looks out the kitchen window. The square bathes in moonlight. He should have been home a long time ago; that's often the case. She knows she should ask more when he doesn't tell us where he's been or what he's done. But he is always so angry – angry at her who works so much and earns so little, angry at everything everyone else has and never him. He's angry, he's out and she doesn't know what he's doing. Not far from there, on the other side of the gorge of a townhouse, Gabriel turns out the lamp over his beloved five - year - old. He listens to breathing and hears it still holding. He wants to watch every second. But he had to get the papers, write to the Social Insurance Agency again and appeal to get back the assistance that was removed. By 2019 the world could be so good. We're richer than ever. Our accumulated abundance would be almost impossible to understand for all other people in history, and Sweden is one of the richest countries in the world. We can afford to take care of each other. Yet, much indicates that it is the poorest in the world who have had to clean up after some greed drove us into financial crisis. The global fight against poverty seems to have slowed down. In sub-Saharan Africa, more people now live in extreme poverty, and in Sweden, the gap has increased faster than in most other countries since the 1990s. It can be seen in segregation, school results and health. This is evident for those who fall through the rifts of the security systems. It brings out contradictions between people, and it requires political answers. I have spent my years investing more in school – the most important place for all people to have an honest chance. We have invested most of all in those students and schools that need it most. I am also proud of an economic policy that has had the most focus on the one that has the least. We need more justice. The world is facing a change that will make the financial crisis look like a gust of wind. The climate is changing at a rate that mankind has never experienced before, the mass extinction of species is accelerating and natural disasters are increasing. We cannot opt out of this change. But we can choose whether to do anything to keep it within the limits that humanity can handle or not, and we can choose whether to face it together or alone. I am green because I believe in solidarity and that the only way that we humans can make major changes is just together. No one can buy themselves free from pollution. In the end, it affects everyone. What we need to do now is not just easy. It will require changes and even sacrifices in matters that we have taken for granted. The Pryl mountains cannot continue to grow, and the growth cannot look like it has. Our opportunity to do this is that people feel that they can be part of this change. An unfair society will never be able to cope with what is necessary. The poorest cannot pay – not again, not globally and not here. The January agreement contains things that are important for justice: that families on the run be reunited, that we honor 1% in aid to the poorest people in the world, that we fix the breaks in the LSS, that we raise pensions for pensioners who have worked a full career to regular pay, and that we give people development time that gives them more power over their working lives. At the same time, part of the deal is tax reductions. Therefore, the responsibility for the Green Party is great to push forward in every budget ahead for investments that are important to us even when we have it at its toughest, when we have the least and need society at its most. Politics must never be just about those who are the richest; they can manage anyway. I believe in solidarity, in the teacher who takes that extra talk with a student who needs it, and in Greta and the climate activists who take the responsibility that we all need to take. Thank you. You're the hope.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-96	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for several interesting speeches here. I broadly share the picture of problems expressed by several of you. During the previous term of office, the government began work to reverse developments. Over 300 000 more people got into work, the number of employees in Swedish welfare finally started to increase again and the time for new arrivals to get to work has decreased radically. But much work remains to be done. We shall continue to push down unemployment but also increase employment and increase the number of hours worked in our economy. We will shorten the care queues and continue our work for better learning outcomes in our schools. We shall ensure that pensioners who have worked their entire working life receive an increased pension. We will reduce climate emissions and speed up the development of climate-smart solutions. We're going to train more cops, and they're going to have better conditions to force gang crime. We will train more so that both companies and welfare can recruit the staff they need. What worries me when I listen to the three right-wing Conservative Party leaders is the absence of climate issues. We are facing perhaps the greatest social transition ever. The researchers have been warning and sounding the alarm for many years. Drought, fires and storms tell us what we might have to wait if we don't do the right thing. Nevertheless, Sweden's second largest party chose to present a budget here in the Swedish parliament where Sweden's ambitions in the climate work were severely reduced. Does it not also worry the Moderates that our climate, and thus the basic conditions for so much in our society, are rapidly changing?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-99	Madam President, I would like Prosperity often leads to more people working. It's a common connection. But in congress speeches, election numbers and government declarations, year in and year out since 2013, the same message has been repeated time and again: Sweden will have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. The closer we get to the target date, the further away from the target, too. It is no coincidence that you abandon the target as we move from place 12 to place 19, Stefan Löfven. Whose fault is this? According to your Minister for Labour, it is the Moderates' fault that you do not reach the target. Possibly it is the fault of the four bourgeois parties, because – since a month ago – it is a bourgeois budget with which this government governs. Or, as Stefan Löfven himself said in 2013: It's always someone else's fault. We are often blamed, even though it is six years since we have been in power. You have failed by far the most important promise of the last parliamentary term, Stefan Löfven. There are now many who wonder why we should believe your promises this time.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-102	Madam President, I would like From the Moderates' side, it always sounds like it's about luck. When things go well for Social Democrats, it's luck. Well, I guess it's not a bad option to vote for those who are lucky. The opposite is worse. No, it is not a failure to have the highest employment rate ever measured in any EU country. Unemployment had been stuck somewhere around 8 per cent for several years with the bourgeois government, and now it is approaching 6 per cent. We have lower unemployment. Youth unemployment has fallen by 6 percentage points. We have the lowest proportion of people who depend on our compensation and benefit systems since 1981. It's been almost 40 years since we saw such a low percentage. People are at work. This is because we have invested in both housing construction and education. People get into work, and that's how it's going to go on.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-105	Madam President, I would like It goes without saying that more people get into work at the peak of the economy. That's the way it's always been. The Prime Minister can call it luck if he wants to, but there are more countries than Sweden that feel that the world economy is good and that it affects how many people are working. That was not the question. Sweden would have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. We were in position 12 when you started, Stefan Löfven, and we are in position 19 as you abandon the target. You are blaming an economic policy that has been in force for a month and that is why you are abandoning it. My question is: why should one believe in the promises made this time, when the most important promise of the last time has been so clearly broken?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-107	Madam President, I would like We set ourselves a high and bold target because we would pool our forces to bring down unemployment. It was based on two things. This was based on increasing employment, because we were accused of simply wanting to remove people from the labour market. And it was based on more hours worked. What happened to employment? It's increased. What has happened to the number of hours worked in our economy? They've increased. That's because we're investing. Not only do we believe in major tax cuts, but we invest so that people get to work. We invest in the construction of housing, because then jobs will also be created. About half of the growth we have been able to create in this country is due to the economic policies of the government. The government will continue to carry it. We're not giving up. It is always full employment that applies to a Social Democratic-led government.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-109	Madam President and the Prime Minister. I'm also wondering about that case that went missing. Is it the case that the countries where Stefan Lövven's government has succeeded are more fortunate than Stefan Löfven, or could it be because of something else? However, that is not what I was going to mention, Madam President, but I was going to talk about the January deal. In a change of line between me and Stefan Löfven in a party leader debate on television a few years ago, I mentioned the fact that only one in five foreign rapists is expelled from Sweden. At that time Stefan Löfven talked about that we can reduce the number of rapes by ensuring job security and LAS. Now, however, this government wants to increase the number of exemptions in LAS. It lowers taxes on those who earn the most and introduces market rents for new production. How do we know, Madam President, that we can trust the Social Democrats and what they say in an election campaign?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-112	Madam President, I would like You can always rely on Social Democrats to take responsibility even in a difficult parliamentary situation. We are in a different parliamentary position now than in the last parliamentary term. If all the parties in the Riksdag sit in each corner and say that we want it here – just like this and not in any other way, nothing happens. I am proud of the agreement we have reached between four parties. We aim for strong public finances and allow municipalities to continue to develop healthcare and care. I am proud that we can ensure that pensioners who have worked for a full working life, in fact at relatively low wages, will receive a good pension. For once, we can also remove the pensioner's tax imposed under the bourgeois government. We want the whole country to grow, we invest in education and so on. After all, the question is why the Swedish Democrats and Jimmie Åkesson are trying to come up with an attack from the left while they describe themselves as a right-wing conservative party, want a moderate prime minister and vote for a moderate budget. That doesn't make any sense.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-115	Madam President, I would like I'm working to get us a Swedish democratic prime minister.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-116	There were some key elements in the election messages of the Social Democrats. The most important part was that the terrible bourgeoisie and the terrible right have reduced the taxes of the richest and want to continue to lower the taxes of the richest, which means total disaster for society. In addition, the terrible right wing wants to reduce job security. The terrible right wing also wants to introduce market rents. Now Stefan Löfven is doing all this. These are not small things, Madam President; these were the main elements of the Social Democratic message. That is why my simple question is: how do we know that what Stefan Löfven says today also applies tomorrow? How do we know that, Stefan Löfven?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-118	Madam President, I would like Here the party leader stands for the party that wanted to lower taxes the most and whose economic spokesperson in Today's industry described very well how taxes should be lowered most for those who have the most. Now he's standing here complaining. Social democracy stands for and will stand for:
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-120	Madam President, I would like The port of Gothenburg, the largest in the Nordic countries, has for a long time been paralyzed by the ongoing conflict. It is harmful not only to Gothenburg as a city and to Sweden as a country, but also to the climate, when freight transport is instead transferred to lorries. It is detrimental to competitiveness, to exports and to jobs. During the previous parliamentary term, the Social Democratic Government initiated an investigation to change the law on conflict law so that the kind of harmful strikes that are currently taking place will not occur, precisely in connection with the conflict in Gothenburg. Although the investigation has been referred, changes have been delayed. Now that there is a government in place that is no longer dependent on the Left Party, it is an excellent opportunity to put the proposal on the table of the Riksdag. My question is therefore: will the government put a proposal for a change in the law of conflict on Parliament's table in the near future?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-123	Madam President, I would like The long-standing conflicts in the port of Gothenburg have been a problem. In Sweden, we should basically have the order that we have had for a long time, that is, the social partners take responsibility for wage formation. Thus, there is also the freedom to take conflict measures. If that order does not end up being sustainable and we always have a conflict, something must be done. Otherwise we risk destroying the Swedish model, and that is not a servant of. For this very reason, the investigation was set up to resolve this conflict, and for that reason the social partners themselves began to negotiate the solution they wanted. That is how a solution was found, and now the government has drawn up a legislative proposal based on the solution that the parties themselves have come up with. Now it has been out for a referral, and we have got the referral back and go through them. We expect to make such a proposal during the year, yes.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-125	Madam President, I would like The Swedish model has served Sweden very well. But here we see a situation which is detrimental to growth, trade and international reputation, but which also reduces predictability for all the companies around the country that have been affected in recent years and which are also affected now. The situation bears witness to one of the most disproportionate and damaging labour market conflicts for a very long time. I think it is extremely important to act urgently. We have seen media data now that both LO, TCO and Saco as well as the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise have gone out and said that they want an earlier entry into force than the date that the government has set in the submitted proposal because this harms Swedish exports and Swedish trade. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: is he prepared to consider putting forward legislation earlier than the date of the proposed referral in order to bring about a conflict law and legislation in place around it that restricts and deters this type of unreasonable action in the future?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-128	Madam President, I would like Ultimately, it is about the balance between the right of conflict and not having a system whereby the conflict never ends, but somewhere it must end. We support the right of conflict in order to achieve a national collective agreement, but this conflict was too long; that is quite correct. That is precisely why we have tabled the proposal that we have tabled. We have no reason to drag it out. I am going to stick to the rules and regulations that are in place. So I cannot say an exact date, but we are speeding up this legislation because it is important, not least for the Swedish business community.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-130	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister Löfven! We are indeed living in a new political age. The Social Democrats promise to implement right-wing policies, and they have already begun to defend both the privatisation of the Employment Service and market rents. Now it will be government interventions for reduced job security, higher rents in new production, continued privatisation of the public sector and a tax policy that increases the gaps in Sweden. You will work for each point, and we will work against and try to stop each point. The agreement also contains a wording on greater equality. As a little whisper from old times there is a formulation about increased equality. But, Stefan Löfven, how does market rents increase, lower job security and privatization equality in Sweden?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-132	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt has long burned for and is passionate about justice and equality. That's good. We did several good things together during the last parliamentary term. This term of office is in a different parliamentary position. I was voted out and not accepted as prime minister. Now I have been accepted by the Riksdag because there is another political constellation. That's the reality. Jonas Sjöstedt is happy to explain which other option would have been possible. It's not market rents. It's wrong to describe it that way. It is not a deterioration of labour law and a erosion of job security per se. We still don't know what that investigation will do. There is room for discussion, and of course we shall have it. We must maintain a balance between the social partners. And I will always strive for greater equality.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-134	Mr President, I would like to This won't hold. It says: a free lease in the case of new construction is introduced. It's market rents. The programme states that legislation should be put at risk unless the parties are forced, as it were, to loosen up the rules on job security. It's black and white; it's clear there. That is the policy that you have already begun to defend. That's the one. We will do everything we can to stop it, and I hope we succeed. We will use our position in Parliament to prevent this from happening. But the fact is, and that is the sad thing, that nothing can be said about what in this programme actually increases equality. When it comes to Sweden's big challenge – the class divides, inequality, the different conditions – there is nothing. There it is empty, and that's what's so sad about this 73-point program.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-136	Mr President, I would like to First of all, when it comes to market rents, the answer is no. You have to set the first rent for new production. When it comes to the change in rent, it is negotiation or tariff that applies. Labour law must be examined with a balance between the parties where, on the one hand, the exceptions are to be extended in turn, on the other hand, to ensure that it is not arbitrary dismissals. Care must be taken to balance employment protection between the different conditions of employment. We have greater equality if we now see that we are to provide the municipalities with more resources so that they know throughout their term of office that there will be more resources. Then we develop care and care. We are taking money so that those with low pensions receive higher pensions. Let's start family week. We are expanding rail, road and broadband across the country to ensure that people can learn and get on with their work. We are making a big green tax shift that Sjöstedt should be proud of.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-139	Mr President, I would like to My question to the Prime Minister is: Where did the elderly go in the January agreement? Your agreement extends over 73 points, but not one concerns the lack of retirement homes. Not a single one is about how to improve care for the elderly. Not a single one is about the staff shortage. The only two concrete reforms proposed are permanent home care contact and free work clothes. Your own finance department says in 2026 there will be no 32,000 retirement homes. How can a budget agreement be concluded without addressing the problem of housing for the elderly? Where did the elders go?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-141	Mr President, I would like to We have ensured that the conditions of the elderly are developed during the last parliamentary term, and we will continue to develop them. We're taking away the unfair pensioner's tax. We are raising pensions for those who have low incomes and therefore also low pensions, and not least, which the Christian Democrats are now accusing us of so strongly from speaking, for we are bringing money to the municipalities. What does that mean? We ensure that the municipalities are able to ensure that they have good care for the elderly. That is what it means, and the Christian Democrats think that is a major problem. We know the municipalities need this money. They're supposed to have this money. More retirement homes will be built. Care for the elderly is important, and the contact we write about in the January agreement is important for the care of the elderly to work. Let us ensure that the municipalities receive the resources they need so that they can take care of the elderly!
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-144	Mr President, I would like to In the KD-M budget, we are even further reducing the tax on pensioners who have less than SEK 17 000 a month, and we are making a special boost for them with the worst situation through a reinforced BTP. This can mean a reinforcement of up to $5,000 a year. I still do not hear any suggestions on how to solve the problem of housing for the elderly. I used to be a councillor myself. I know how this is put in difficult negotiations against other things such as monuments to various municipal politicians, baths, the struggle to compete Globen and Camp Nou and what the hell it is – and the elderly are forgotten. That is why responsibility must be taken on by governments. I've been sitting with the old people who have fallen at home, been banging on the floor for a whole night, hoping that the neighbor will get away from you and still be denied a retirement home. General municipal grants in the country are not enough. You need to give the elderly and their housing priority right away.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-147	Mr President, I would like to When the Christian Democrats were involved in introducing the pensioner tax, it sounded different. You have been involved in ensuring that pensioners pay higher taxes on their pension than they do on wages, Ebba Busch Thor. That's your legacy. It was also you who criticised the support for building more old-age housing. During your time in the government, the number of retirement homes fell considerably. We need to do a lot more. But then action is needed. This requires that we can show Sweden's municipalities that they will have the resources to take care of the elderly. We never give up on this. We take away the pensioner's tax, and we raise the pensions. We have made dental care cheaper for the elderly, and the over 85 now have free primary care. That's how we're gonna keep going. The elderly should be shown respect. But then you actually have to stand for it for real.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-151	Mr President, I would like to In May, we have the most important European elections during the 25-year period that Sweden has been a member of the Union. The whole of the Union is at stake. One big question is whether we should cooperate more in Europe or less. Germany and France are pushing for more cooperation. A number of other countries – Poland, Hungary and so on – want to scale down cooperation. Sweden will not fail to take a stand in this direction. I hear the Prime Minister speaks well of the EU. That's good. But the problem is that as soon as cooperation in the EU is to deepen, the Social Democrats say no. They say no to having a European Public Prosecutor's Office to fight crime. It says no to having the Banking Union to stabilise the banking system in Europe. They say no to having a European carbon tax to combat CO2 emissions. They say no to having deeper fiscal policies in order to stabilise and secure jobs and well-being. Stefan Löfven! It is good that you speak well of the European Union. But you must not be so anxious to cooperate more in Europe.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-154	Mr President, I would like to The European Parliament elections are undoubtedly important at this time when Brexit is being discussed. We don't know the outcome of that. We also see a situation in the East which it is important that we resist with democratic forces. The friction between Italy and France is also worrying. Yes, we must take responsibility for keeping the European Union together. The question is, how is it best done? Sweden agrees with the other countries that we need to increase security. There is a clear added value here. The European Union can guarantee greater security with the cooperation that we must have in terms of defence, but also in relation to terrorism. There is added value in the European Union by ensuring that people, not least our young people, get into work and that that work takes place. There is common added value in attacking climate change properly. Where there is clear added value, we will therefore continue to cooperate. That's the point. Cooperation shall provide added value. It's there, but it's not everywhere.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-159	Mr President, I would like to The problem is that the Prime Minister says that we should cooperate in the area by area, but the sharp proposals put forward by the driving forces in the EU, to a large extent France and Germany, Sweden says 'no' because the Social Democrats and the government have said 'no' and 'no' again. No measure would be better to combat CO2 emissions in Europe than a common European CO2 tax. We already have a high tax in Sweden, but other countries do not. And many other countries have large emissions. But there you say no, Stefan Löfven. You are doing this not because you are in favour of emissions, but because you are too anxious to give the EU those powers. It is enhanced cooperation in Europe that can solve many of today's major problems. Being anxious about collaboration does not solve them. It is good that the Prime Minister speaks well of cooperation. We will of course take the fight together against those who want Sweden to leave the cooperation. But now that we have this cooperation, we must use it aggressively to solve the common problems we face in our continent.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-162	Mr President, I would like to I share that view. We will solve them together, and we will develop the European Union, which is a prerequisite for Sweden's prosperity. However, with regard to banking union, for example, we want to do as in other cases. We want to look at what is plus and what is minus for Sweden. We don't just go and say, "Do you want a banking union?" Yeah, but let's do it. We're investigating it. And the investigation is due to be completed this year. Then we want the parties to discuss what is plus and what is minus and take a stand. In the years that I have been Prime Minister, I have discussed with the other leaders precisely how we will develop cooperation, not least in terms of security. There is considerable added value. This also applies to the labour market. The EU is important for Sweden. We'll develop it. But let us not just get into what others propose, but let us make the assessment of what is good. Perhaps there is also something that is not good. The EU can and will become more sharp. But it is based on a substantial added value.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-167	Mr President, I would like to Since my very first day as party leader, I have extended my hand to Stefan Löfven to find a common solution to migration policy. Decennials of ill-considered twitching should end. We have moved from borderless openness to panicous rescheduling, from tight S policy to amnesty for unaccompanied minors. With the January agreement, the policy is now added again. The Moderates and the Social Democrats should instead take on board what really unites us, above all the demanding realization that we in Sweden have our share of responsibility for doing good in a broken world but that at the same time we bear the whole responsibility for how things go back home in Sweden. Migration and integration are interrelated. The government and support parties have now agreed to set up a parliamentary inquiry. I think that's good. But it requires direction. And what can the whole new government base really agree on? We know a little: the temporary law is to be extended but still open to more family immigrants. The government wants new exceptions to a long-term sustainable policy. It's a risky path. Then we guess. We are not told about returns, about those who live here without a law and without protection, or about the risk of Sweden returning to more generous rules than the rest of the EU. Every civilized country must be part of the great world. But every functioning country must also have control over its own borders. Sweden does not have that today. The Moderates and the Social Democrats have historically taken responsibility for these difficult issues, having held in when others have let go. It's usually said that with power comes responsibility. But now the Social Democrats choose power over responsibility.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-173	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it was a Social Democratic-led government that changed the migration policy introduced by the moderate-led government. We take responsibility for it, and we will take responsibility for the future. One of Sweden's social problems is housing shortage. Investment aid was introduced during the previous term of office. As a result, some 20,000 rental apartments were built. These are apartments with affordable rentals for young people, and they are good apartments for pensioners who might want to have another accommodation. In the budget voted by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, this investment support was abolished. This means that planned constructions have had to be paused and that started projects have had to be stopped. For example, in moderate-controlled Skövde you can choose because the construction of 132 new student apartments can not be built. Why are the Moderates opposed to creating the conditions for the construction of rental apartments for ordinary people?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-177	Mr President, I would like to Let us be frank about migration policy. Let us speak honestly to each other and to the Swedish people about the failures we have jointly contributed to. We come from a story where we have taken responsibility for difficult issues. We know that we want to help people who are much harder off than we are, but at the same time we know that there are limits to what the welfare state of Sweden can do. This common but far from always appreciated insight, we both had, and we took responsibility for this. Many others were barking at us for that reason. It has now been a long time since we have been hating back and forth and not taking responsibility. There have been dramatic changes. You were just as reluctant as many others to make these changes, but 163 000 in a single year forced a change. We should have long-term sustainability, stability and a well thought-out idea of what Sweden's responsibility is and what we can manage. I think that our two parties have an extra responsibility for this.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-179	Mr President, I would like to I asked you a question about housing. We will discuss migration policy in a parliamentary committee. We have extended the temporary law. We will come back to this. I asked a question about housing now, Ulf Kristersson. The Moderates seem to be completely incapable of learning from past mistakes. When they came to power in 2006, they abolished investment aid for housing. At that time, housing construction decreased, and it was at a low level for many years. We are suffering from this today. During our term of office, we introduced it again. At that time, housing construction increased. Are there any conclusions to be drawn from this? Why is it so important for the Moderates that ordinary people should not be able to get a tenancy agreement? The workforce that needs to move needs to be able to do so, and companies that want to recruit need to be able to say: Here are rental apartments. What makes your resistance so great, Ulf Kristersson?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-183	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister wants to talk about building subsidies today and migration and integration some other day. We make different priorities. I think that migration and integration problems in Sweden are a bigger, more important and more urgent issue than building subsidies to companies that do not want them themselves. Such ones have never worked before, and there is nothing to suggest that they would work this time. You're making the wrong political priorities. It is not patios and construction subsidies that are the major issues in Sweden today. The big issues that people are worried about are how we are going to cope with common commitments and how the police are going to be more. It is not just a question of wishing for this, but of how they actually become more. It is also about how customs can keep track of our borders. These are the big questions. Building subsidies are bad in themselves. It does not require any explanation other than that they simply do not work. But this is not the big question of Sweden's fate at the moment, Prime Minister.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-186	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson mentioned the defense tax in his first post. I welcome that. The removal of the military tax leads to Sweden becoming much more unequal and unfair – just as you, Ulf, pointed out. We have recently heard moderates here in the speaker's chair say that other tax cuts would be much more fair than removing the defence tax. You have said that we should have strong public finances in times when the crisis is waiting. But you know, Ulf, we can do something about this. I am prepared that when the Spring Bill comes, the Left Party and the Moderates will sign up in the Finance Committee and stop the idea of removing the military tax. I'll reach out my hand to you. Let us have a fairer policy! Up to evidence now, Ulf! I'm willing to do this with you. Were you serious about this or was it just a scam? Please answer now, Ulf!
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-189	Mr President, I would like to I'd be happy to dismiss this government with you, Jonas. You can count on that every day.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-190	But I don't want to do it because they're abolishing the defense tax. It's a good thing they're abolishing it. It is excellent because it is a bad treasure. Their doing so is an excellent decision. I'll be a part of that every day. You are right that equality is a major problem in Sweden – not because we remove the defense tax, but because today there are children who never see their parents go to work. There are children who never get a chance to get better in life. There are children who can never build a better future than their parents. This has nothing to do with defense taxes. Insurance taxes are criminal taxation on higher education, on working extra and on switching to a management job. It is a good thing that it is abolished. But do I want to abolish the government? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-193	Mr President, I would like to You shouldn't play poker with high stakes if you're sitting with couples in twos. As a matter of fact, that's the way it is. Maybe someone calls your card, and that's exactly what I did. Here you have talked about how unfair the defense tax is and I say: We can together ensure that it is not removed. We can form a majority in Parliament. The offer remains. But then you say, "No, I want to do this." I want to make the rich richer. Of course you want to because you're Moderates. You've been hypocritical. You've been making this up. You don't care that Sweden becomes more unequal. I'm saying that we can get the government down on this issue, and you're saying you're happy to bring down the government, but not on this issue. You're chickening out, Ulf Kristersson. This is a hoax. You're making this up. This shows what your policy looks like. When you talk about those who have the worst in Sweden, you are not serious. It's the same old upper class politics. It should be given to those who already have. However, my offer remains. If you, together with us, want to make sure that they cannot remove the defense tax and that the taxes become more fair, the offer remains, Ulf Kristersson.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-200	Mr President, I would like to This is completely mutual. You must have misunderstood everything I said, Jonas. I think it's good that the defense tax is removed. I've always thought so. I won't change my mind for a second just because Stefan Löfven now also says he wants to remove the defense tax. For whatever reason you want to bring down this government, I will always be there for it. It's perfectly fine if it's because of the defense tax. But the fact that they remove the defense tax is excellent. We will vote to remove the defence tax, and we will also vote to remove the government.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-202	Mr President, I would like to Sweden consumes as if there are four globes. We don't. We live on credit and sign over the bill to our children. Before Christmas, the Moderates, supported by SD, pushed through their budget. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's overall environmental efforts were slaughtered by 40 per cent. That's more than Trump wanted to cut environmental work in the United States. The environmental cuts that Ulf Kristersson pushed through here in Parliament are much greater than what the then Republican Congress finally allowed Donald Trump to do. At the same time, you wanted to abolish air tax, reduce CO2 tax and increase subsidies for fossil fuels. In our deal with S, C and L, we are now saving a lot of this. However, the differences are unpleasantly clear. We want to take responsibility for the only soil we have. You run an environmental policy that is like taking SMS loans on SMS loans and hoping that the kids will pay.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-205	Mr President, I would like to That's just wrong. The budget, i.e. the reservations of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, voted through by this House in December is the second largest environmental budget ever adopted by this House. The only one that has been bigger is the election year budget that you presented. If this is a slaughter of the environment, what was the budget you submitted two years earlier? It was 2 billion lower. And what was the budget you presented a year earlier? It was 1.3 billion lower. This is not about slaughter, but about the demand that environmental policy be real. It should be effective, it should work and it should deliver results in reality. The reason why we don't believe in many of the efforts you are making—we don't doubt your goodwill, as I have said many times—is that we don't believe in ineffective environmental measures that are condemned by the Institute of Economic Affairs and the National Audit Office. We like real environmental policy. You shouldn't waste money that could be useful.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-208	Mr President, I would like to Donald Trump wanted to cut 30 percent of the budget for EPA, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, but the Republican Congress slowed him down and stopped him. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's total environmental, climate and nature inputs decreased by 40 per cent. Ulf Kristersson's answer to this is that we have historically had even lower environmental budgets. The IPCC gives us ten years to do this and make the necessary transition. The answers of the Moderates are: Let us begin these ten years by doing a little less than we did last year. This is not taking responsibility. Rather, it is increasing the environmental debt that we pass on to our children. It is perfectly all right if you are against parts of our environmental policy. That's reasonable. But then come up with better proposals and not fewer proposals or cuts when the earth burns.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-212	Mr President, I would like to We had better proposals with more international investment, climate aid and things that do real good and less of things that destroy Swedish rural areas and that make it impossible to live in the whole of Sweden. Let us go back to a measure of intellectual integrity. If our budget was a slaughter, what was your budget two years earlier that was lower than the budget we presented? Why can't you just honestly say that we make different assessments of where the money is most useful? The current budget is the second largest ever, with a stronger focus on environmental measures that are effective. I stand for that wholeheartedly.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-215	Mr President, I would like to Undeniably, we have a lot of problems to deal with. When you listen to the debate you can easily get the impression that everyone is more or less in agreement. Of course, that is not the case. It's just rhetoric. The priorities are different. What is most important, and where does the money do the most good? The solutions are different. How do we deal with the most important problems? Mr President, I would like to Now we have a government that has proved totally incapable of solving the problems we face for four years. Stefan Lövven's government failed with just everything for four years. It does not have the right priorities, and it does not have the right solutions. Mr President, I would like to Now we are three parties in opposition in this assembly. There are just three parties because we differ. You can of course choose to focus on it, focus on the differences and what separates us. But there is also much more, I would say, that unites the opposition. It is about both values and substance politics, but perhaps above all about priorities. Where does the money do the most good? Mr President, I would like to It is my conviction that if the Liberal Left Alliance is to get a proper match during this parliamentary term, the opposition must sooner or later give them that match in common. Leaving the walkover is not an option.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-219	Mr President, I would like to During the election movement and the time since the elections, it has become increasingly clear that the goal of the Swedish Democrats is to build a right-wing conservative bloc in Swedish politics and in the Swedish parliament. This is an important message to Sweden's voters. The Swedish Democrats tend to try to make it as if they are neither on the right nor on the left. They're something for everyone. Now there is no doubt. The Swedish democrats have stood very clearly on the right side of Swedish politics. They voted for a right-wing budget. In their own budget exercise, they propose that the child benefit be reduced. They want the limit of abortion to be lowered from 18 to 12 weeks. There is no other way to describe it, Jimmie Åkesson, than that the Swedish Democrats today are the party that stands absolutely on the far right in Swedish politics.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-221	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven and I belong to different generations. I can understand in some sense that for Stefan Löfven the left-right dimension is still what guides politics and draws the political map. But for me, it's not like that. Left-right is a dimension of what the political landscape looks like – absolutely. But these are mainly linked to economic and distribution policies. It is possible that if you look at our proposals on tax policy, for example, we are slightly more to the right according to the old scale than Stefan Löfven is, although Stefan Löfven is now lowering the tax rate for the richest. But if we look at distribution policy, our profile is that it is the weak groups in society, those who earn the least, that get the greatest improvements. We have the parliamentary investigation service with us on this. Drop the left-right scale, Stefan Löfven. That's not relevant today. There are quite different lines of conflict that are relevant in Swedish politics and Western politics today.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-224	Mr President, I would like to What I ask about, Jimmie Åkesson, is the policy of the Swedish Democrats themselves. It is you yourselves who say that you want a right-wing conservative bloc. You say that in the interviews. You share both the ideological basis and the factual views. You want a moderate prime minister. You voted for a right-wing budget. You are proposing major tax cuts yourself, and you do not want to stop religious free schools. You don't have any proposals for increased pensions. You're going to lower the child benefit and limit the right to abortion. As little as you can deny the roots of the Swedish Democrats, Åkesson, you can deny that you are a party far out on the right in Swedish politics.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-227	Mr President, I would like to It is Stefan Lövven's government that lowers taxes for those who earn the most. I've never suggested it. The Swedish democrats have never proposed the abolition of the military tax. On the other hand, in every budget in recent years in this House, we have proposed increased guarantee pensions and reduced taxes on pensioners. It's a fact. Another fact is that if you look at our distributional policy profile, it is extremely clear which ones benefit from Swedish democratic politics. It is women in the public sector, pensioners and those who earn the least. It is the groups that benefit from the policy of the Swedish Democrats, unlike Stefan Lövven's policy that lowers the tax for those who earn the most. Stefan Löfven can call it right-wing politics if he wants to. For me it is quite uninteresting if it is left or right or up or down. For me, there are other issues today that are relevant both to me and to people in the real reality. If those questions can then be considered to be left or right, then I do not matter. I think it's uninteresting.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-230	Mr President, I would like to I'm not that smart. I am happy to implement policies that I believe in with anyone who wants to support them. It could be the government. It could be the Swedish Democrats. It is politics that is important. I am also not very sensitive about the removal of a government that should not have taken up office. I can remove it with the Left Party, and I can remove it with you. The funny thing is, it takes both of us to really do it. It's a little ironic that those who don't want anything to do with each other need each other's company to do this. This also applies, moreover, when the Centre Party and the Liberals are to dismiss the government for failing to implement the policy. I note, Jimmie Åkesson, that you like half our party program. You like half our idea program, half our values, half our ideology. It's not that bad. I know a lot of people in here who like less than half. You have to take what you get. But it's not enough to get back together. It's not enough to like half of us to form new blocks. We are a liberal and a conservative party. We're equally proud of both. If you don't understand both things, you don't join us.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-234	Mr President, I would like to I have heard Ulf Kristersson repeat it since the election. What Ulf Kristersson misses is that he himself only likes half his own programme. It is perfectly okay to cooperate with liberal parties, and even neo-liberal parties, because the Moderates are a liberal conservative party. But conservative parties cannot be collaborated with. Don't throw stones in glass houses, Ulf Kristersson. Instead, let us do what we can, we three parties in opposition, to make this parliamentary term as difficult as possible for the Left Liberal Alliance and as good as possible for Sweden. That is my objective during this term of office.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-236	Mr President, I would like to I will not spend my time in this parliamentary term making it as difficult for the government as possible, but to do it as well for Sweden as possible. I think that is the most important task, and I will be responsible for my policy no matter who is prepared to support it. What I was trying to say was that liberal and conservative values are both important for us. It is the conservative belief in defending Sweden at all times, taking advantage and learning from past experiences, but also the liberal belief that people have equal value and respect for people's life choices. It is about the free market economy, international cooperation, EU membership and the need for others. All that is equally important to us. For me, it is good enough if you support half of our policy. I can get support for the other half of the others. But this does not form a new bloc. You are right: the three of us are now in solid opposition. The Moderates and Christian Democrats are the bourgeois opposition, and you are the opposition. It's all right, that too.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-239	Mr President, I would like to What I was somehow trying to achieve in my previous reply was precisely that the Moderates call themselves a liberal conservative party. But they cannot cooperate with conservative parties. On the other hand, they can negotiate with liberal parties. They can negotiate with socialist parties. They can negotiate with environmental extremist parties. But they can't talk to, and they can't even sit in the same room as, a conservative. I therefore question Ulf Kristersson's claim that liberalism and conservatism are equally important to the Moderates. You have made it quite clear that this is not the case. Liberalism is more important to you. Conservativeism is something necessary evil that Ulf Kristersson must talk about in order to appease his own party and his own grass-roots movement. We have a lot in common, Ulf Kristersson. I would argue that the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates have much more in common than, for example, the Moderates and the Environmental Party. Anyone can see that. Reasonably, then, you and I should be able to talk to each other to make sure that this government gets it as difficult as possible and that Sweden gets it as good as possible. That's my ambition.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-242	Mr President, I would like to The European cooperation that has brought peace in Europe, brought our nations closer together and strengthened our economies is now shaking in the drama called Brexit. For me, this drama is a reminder of the importance of European cooperation. But for Jimmie Åkesson it is rather an inspiration to begin to isolate Sweden from Europe. He wants Sweden to leave the EU. He chooses European division over European cooperation. I'd like to give Jimmie Åkesson a challenge. Can he mention a crime that will be easier to fight if it becomes more difficult to cooperate with the French police? Can he mention an environmental problem that will be easier to solve if you cannot cooperate with German researchers? Can he mention a company that can raise the wages of its workers if it becomes more difficult to sell the goods to Spanish consumers?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-245	Mr President, I would like to I am not fond of the European Union, because the European Union is a supranational political union. It is foreign politicians, politicians of other countries, who make laws here in Sweden. The portal clause in the government form itself – that all public power in Sweden is based on the people and that the parliament, we are here, is its representative – no longer applies. It is the politicians of other countries who make a large part of the laws that apply in our country. I'm opposed to that. If it then happens in the name of something called the EU or something else, for me it is quite uninteresting. We must work together in Europe. I believe in free trade, especially for our small country, which is so dependent on exports. I believe that Sweden will continue to be part of the internal market, for example, and that we will fight international crime and the like together. That's what I believe in. However, I do not believe in moving more power to bureaucrats and champions in Brussels.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-248	Mr President, I would like to That Jimmie Åkesson does not like people from other countries is nothing new. But, Jimmie Åkesson, you don't have a fight against the European elite. You're fighting against reality. Jimmie Åkesson says that it is possible to cooperate and act without the EU. That's what Britain said. Now we see the result. Brexit is a play that Shakespeare could hardly write. It is not a comedy; it is a tragedy. It is a tragedy for Swedish business leaders as well as workers on the floor and something that they worry about but that Jimmie Åkesson is inspired by. Mr President, I would like to I want Jimmie Åkesson to tell me. He cannot duck for the question: How will Sweden leave the EU – how? Why does Jimmie Åkesson think he can succeed when the whole political system in Britain has failed?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-251	Mr President, I would like to I think Annie Lööf is rude. She throws herself with expressions that Jimmie Åkesson does not like people from other countries. Yes, I do! I like people who behave in a good way and who have great values. Where they were born somewhere or where in the world they live is completely uninteresting to me. Can we not try to put the debate on a slightly higher level? I think that's an extremely low level.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-252	I am convinced that Sweden will not leave the EU in the foreseeable future. I will not run it in this House either. On the other hand, I will do my utmost to get back as much as possible from the power of our own society from the politicians of other countries in Brussels. It is politicians that we cannot vote for or dismiss. That is my objective both in the European elections that come in our spring and in my work in this House.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-253	Mr President and Jimmie Åkesson! Getting the message that you're dismissed from your job is a heavy one. I know that, because I got it when I worked at Volvo Trucks and the business cycle went down. Today, 4,500 employees at Arbetsförmedlingen have received this information. They get to go home to their families and tell them: Now we don't know what it's gonna be like. Now we don't know if we can keep the villa, and now we don't know what it looks like in the future and whether we can stay in this place. But they don't get laid off because they don't have jobs, as it was for me. They are laid off because you, Jimmie Åkesson, and your party voted for a budget here in the Riksdag, where the appropriations for the Employment Service were dramatically cut. Their jobs are needed. It will also affect the unemployed when employees are allowed to leave their jobs. Competence will be destroyed. Are you satisfied, Jimmie Åkesson, that you are today responsible for 4 500 people to go home to their families and tell them that they will be unemployed?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-257	Mr President, I would like to It must be widely known that criticism of the functioning and effectiveness of the Public Employment Service has been widespread for many years. It is not something I have made up, but it includes most parties in this House. Finally, it is concluded that we have to do something different here. Of course, we should take advantage of the expertise that exists within the authority. It is given; we should not destroy competence in any way. But it can happen in a different form, and that's what you're opening up to now. It also opens up to this in the government that Jonas Sjöstedt himself was involved in and released in this assembly just a few weeks ago. Mr President, I would like to I therefore do not quite understand the criticism. As I understand it, Jonas Sjöstedt himself will be behind a policy similar to this one. I am convinced that it is possible to resolve the tasks of Arbetsförmedlingen in a different way, for example through a requirement-based activity with strict demands on alternative actors. That is what I think the people who now have to leave their jobs can be used for instead and then perhaps more come to their own.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-261	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has never supported, and will never support, such a slaughter of the Employment Service and such privatisation. It is you, Jimmie Åkesson, who voted for it. When you face 4,500 people who lose their jobs, you come up with a cold bureaucratic answer. In practice, it mocks the 4 500 people who do the important work of trying to bring in people who are far from the labour market so that they can be equipped to look for a job. This says something about the Swedish Democrats. However, I will give you one more chance, Jimmie Åkesson. What do you say to those who sit there at their desk and plan a new life? They do not know what will happen, and their skills will not be used. They are told by you and others that they are ineffective and unable to do a proper job. What do you say to them? What do you want them to say at the dinner table tonight to their families? You're the one who pushed the button. It's your party that's sending 4 500 people out in the cold today.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-264	Mr President, I would like to It's not like that. I'm not the one sending someone out in the cold. On the other hand, I have noted, and also taken the political consequences of, that we have a fairly large authority with an extremely important mission that does not work. Then we have to work it out another way. I am extremely pleased that there are skills within Arbetsförmedlingen that can be used to solve this problem in a more efficient and better way than the Arbetsförmedlingen as an authority has succeeded in recent years – because they have not succeeded in their mission at all. In recent years, the Employment Service has been a pure integration measure and has had very little to do with employment services. Instead, we can now put resources into real employment services, which are demand-based and take advantage of the skills of the employees at the Employment Service.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-267	Mr President, I would like to I also want to discuss ideology with Jimmie Åkesson. In the books that Jimmie Åkesson has written, he is very clear that he believes that liberal society is his main opponent. He himself defines himself ideologically as a right-wing nationalist. I am thinking a lot about what those words mean in a European context today. Europe has indeed experienced both liberal and right-wing nationalist epochs. I would like to ask Jimmie Åkesson to mention a single era in Europe's history or a single region in Europe where right-wing nationalism has at some point been better at creating peace, freedom, democracy and prosperity than liberalism has been.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-269	Mr President, I would like to I don't think I've ever called myself a right-wing nationalist. I don't even know what that means. On the other hand, I am social conservative and have a nationalistic basic view. If we are to look at the history, which Jan Björklund often seems to want to do, I think that the folk home in Sweden is basically an ideal society for a Swedish social conservative and nationalist. It is a society where diligence and duty are rewarded but where we also take care of each other when we need to be taken care of. It is a society that is cohesive, with strong social capital, strong trust, a strong sense of home and so on. It is the society I want to restore in modern bottling, unlike the neo- and social liberal chaos that Jan Björklund wants to build on.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-271	Mr President, I would like to I am not talking about how social security should be organised in Sweden. There is certainly broad consensus in this House that we should have an ambitious social policy and free market economy in Sweden. I am talking about how Europe should cooperate and be built. For a number of decades now, we have had a liberal wind that has built up European cooperation. We have created the most successful societies humanity has ever experienced in our part of the world, in Western Europe and North America – a liberal society with freedom, democracy, a market economy, legal certainty, openness, freedom of expression, freedom of the press and a wide range of functions. We have done this in cooperation with each other. It has been about free trade and democracy, and Europe has been a very important engine. If it's troubling for you, remove the word and right, but nationalist is you. Now answer the question instead of talking about something else. What is one example in Europe where nationalism has been better at creating peace, freedom and prosperity than liberalism?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-274	Mr President, I would like to I answered that question. That Jan Björklund then doesn't like the answer, I can't do much about it. Maybe he can go home and think about what I really want and think. This is interesting in some sense. When I studied democracy theory in Lund a number of years ago, we read a lot about classical, liberal democracy and the social model. What Jan Björklund misses is that the whole model is based in some sense on what countries used to look like. When countries, such as Sweden, become more divided and segregated, and when immigration policy has been irresponsible, trust declines and integration fails, liberals who believe in this model must change their ideology and view of democracy and introduce multiculturalism, feminism and everything else. I believe in a classic liberal model of democracy. I will continue to fight for it, both here and in other contexts.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-277	Mr President, I would like to After the election, your closest man Mattias Karlsson wrote a greeting to Sweden's Swedish Democrats. Sweden is really in trouble, he wrote. We used to be. Yet we have always resisted, thanks to the leadership of a small group of patriots. We must be that crowd now, he wrote. Destiny has appointed us. Our opponents have forced us into an existential struggle for the survival of our culture and nation. There are only two choices, victory or death. The last one is a Mussolinicide. I have a few questions, Jimmie Åkesson:
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-279	Mr President, I would like to It is not me but Mattias Karlsson who has written this. I can only speculate on how he was given this mission by fate. One can imagine that he was at home in bed one late night, and then fate just came to him and said: Victory or die! It could be. Or it is not so, but perhaps this is a type of imagery that is often used to instill morale and combat in those who feel a little stunned, for example, because we once again, despite the voters voting as they did, have the Green Party and the Social Democrats in the Government Office. Stefan Löfven is Prime Minister of Sweden, even though he was voted out by both the voters and this House. Maybe it's about this. Maybe you don't have to interpret everything so literally and make yourself ridiculous. Sweden has considerably bigger problems than Mattias Karlsson's Facebook.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-282	Mr President, I would like to If your group leader experiences Benito Mussolini in his dreams you have quite big problems.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-283	Every time your loved ones are exposed with homophobic, racist or even anti-Semitic doctrines, you answer: I don't know. In fact, I think that by now you have said, I don't know, more times than Ulf Kristersson demanded tax cuts during his political career. The new party programme for the Swedish Democrats is that you do not want any people from other countries and otherwise – I do not know. Your closest associate sits the days after the election talking about victory or death, looking as the leader of a small crowd of patriots and calling people out in existential struggle for the survival of our country. Are you serious about not seeing any problem with that? A shovel is a shovel. This, Jimmie Åkesson, is racist rubbish.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-285	Mr President, I would like to I can sign that crap thing. It was a minute of crap we just heard.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-286	Gustav Fridolin began, I think, his line by saying that Sweden is really in trouble. Yes, we are. We have bigger problems than this. I think Gustav Fridolin has said those three words more times in this speaker's chair today than I have. Nor do I know why it is relevant to the political debate. Gustav Fridolin represents one of Sweden's two government parties. Does he have anything else to offer but a piece of crap?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-288	Mr President, I would like to The 2018 elections were a valuation choice, but the basic idea of open society and the equal rights and value of all people and of security for all cannot be allowed to be contained in just one election movement. The discussion about what society we want and the struggle for an open, tolerant Sweden must be conducted every day. Unfortunately, this shows not least the unacceptable threats and abuses that have been directed at Sweden's farmers and that have escalated in recent years. It is about people who have been beaten up, their property destroyed and machines sabotaged. It is farmers who have been persecuted and harassed and families who live under threat of murder. We have even seen examples of children as young as eight years of age receiving threats and hatred outside their own school simply because their parents are farmers. Military animal rights activists have crossed every line. They are engaged in criminal activities that are more of a terrorist idea. Here, society and, not least, politics have a huge responsibility to act in order to find and punish those who demand these despicable acts and also to ensure that Swedish farmers can feel safe and supported by society. We need to act quickly and forcefully on the political side and ensure that the judiciary has the resources to stop this. The Center Party has for a long time been paying attention to threats, hatred and violence. We have also proposed concrete measures to tackle the problems: to stop funds for violent organisations and to introduce a specific code of conduct for animal rights-related crime, to name but two examples. I expect the new Swedish Government to show its momentum as soon as possible. We need concrete measures, because we want to stop the threats and violence against Swedish farmers. We want to protect democracy and security for all.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-293	Madam President, I would like Annie Lööf! The Center Party wants market rents. Market rents have been obtained in new production in their agreement with the government. There are different estimates of how much rents are raised with market rents, but the latest one I have seen points to 50% rent increases in new production in the larger cities and also very strong rent increases in suburban areas and in smaller cities. Already today, people with normal income in Sweden can hardly afford to move into a newly built apartment. This will make it impossible for many to move into a good home. It will increase segregation in Swedish society. At the same time, the large construction companies say that they will not build a single apartment because of market rents. They will stick to their plans as they are. It is understandable, because if you make more money without doing anything, you do nothing either. If you don't have to build more apartments to make more money, you don't build anything either. Why do you want this policy?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-296	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt is fighting against reality. In many locations in Sweden, the queues for rentals are long. I want more people to have the opportunity to have a first home and a tenancy. 中 Getting a home through us can take all if robbery for a couple of months up to 20 years or more. This is how the Housing Agency in Stockholm writes. You can also write, "You have to wait an average of 17 years to get an apartment in the city centre." The Left Party's criticism never comes up with a solution of its own to how the housing market should function better. We need to make changes. Free renting in new production, freer renting in the existing portfolio and increased mobility are very important instruments for the Swedish housing market to function better, so that more people have the opportunity to get a rental right. Today, the queues are far too long and the black contracts are far too many. It is extremely difficult for all those who currently live in the secondary market and pay usury rents to get a first-hand contract.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-299	Madam President, I would like The Left Party received investment aid, which leads to the construction of thousands of flats with low rents throughout the country. You have tried to abolish them. We are in favour of top government loans, which means that we increase competition in the construction market. We have put forward a series of proposals that will make it more built with lower rents. You want to remove all of this. Your only suggestion is to raise rents, so that people can't afford to ask for a home. This is nothing new. It's been tried before. This was the case in Sweden in the 1920s and 1930s. Then we had among Europe's highest rents. There was a low standard of living and a large amount of overcrowding. Many lived in second place. That is why we began to regulate rents and negotiate them. That's why we created the commons. Going back to free renting is making people poor and unlawful in many ways. It's a transfer of money to property owners from tenants. It has nothing to do with the future. It's the politics of the 1920s. We've tried that one. It's failed.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-304	Madam President, I would like There are housing shortages in 243 out of 290 municipalities in the country. It takes an average of 17 years to get a rental right here in Stockholm. It is a policy in Sweden that has been conducted for decades and has not produced a good result. We need to make changes. We need regulatory simplification in a number of areas. The January agreement contains many suggestions on how to make it easier to build around the country. In the January agreement, there are also descriptions of how we need to redo and liberalise the housing market. It is in order for more people to have the opportunity to get a tenancy agreement. It is in order for more people to have the opportunity to move away from home and to an apartment. If we are to defend rental rights, we need liberal reforms, so that we have more housing throughout the country.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-307	Madam President, I would like The agreement reached by the Center Party with the Social Democrats states that environmental taxes should be increased by 15 billion. At the same time, the travel allowance should be redistributed to promote public transport and cycling. It is not far-fetched, then, to believe that we are facing greatly increased costs of driving. Where we live in the country affects what taxes affect us most. Increased fuel taxes may increase the tax for rural people, even if income taxes are reduced. My question to you, Annie Lööf, is therefore: can you guarantee that those of us who live in rural areas – and especially those who do not have party leaders' salaries – will not have a greater tax burden? Will you still be able to live? Can you guarantee that the tax screw is not tightened for those living in rural areas?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-310	Madam President, I would like As I said at the outset, the Center Party is the guarantor of a level playing field throughout the country. We have been for a century, and we will be for the future. We have achieved an enormous number of freedom reforms that people living in rural areas have longed for. It will be easier to build and live. We're strengthening private property rights. And when you raise environmental taxes, it should also appear in your wallet, that is, if you raise the tax, citizens should also get back on the tax bill. It is the green tax shift that is important to steer in a more green direction. We have put forward proposals for green tax increases, for example with regard to the chemical tax. We want to redistribute the travel allowance so that it benefits those living in rural areas. These tax increases should mean a lower tax on jobs and entrepreneurship. Finally, I note that Ebba Busch Thor chooses to take a line on me but not on Jimmie Åkesson.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-314	Madam President, I would like It is possible to accuse Jimmie Åkesson too much, but it is not possible to accuse him of having released Stefan Löfven. That is why, in this House, as the representative of my constituents and of the citizens, I would like to ask questions about what the January Agreement will actually mean. Several of the parts that Annie Lööf mentions are good in every way. However, when you combine the reasonableness of taxes on chemicals and other dangerous emissions with changes in travel deductions and reduced taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship, the question remains how to compensate rural areas for 15 billion in increased environmental taxes. Then the last question is: Can you guarantee that the overall tax burden on those living in rural areas will not increase?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-317	Madam President, I would like In the January agreement there are many tax changes that will reduce the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship. If it is something that makes the whole countryside flourish, it is precisely the green industries and small businesses that we want to facilitate and stimulate. It is also a question of having a green transition. There, as the agreement also states, we are looking at taxes on waste incineration, chemicals and the like to phase out what is bad and to ensure that what is good is promoted, namely jobs and entrepreneurship. We want the whole country to grow. Then we must ensure that the tax burden is reduced, the tax burden reduced and the focus is on ensuring that jobs and entrepreneurship can flourish throughout the country.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-319	Madam President, I would like The hard work done by Sweden's responsible farmers is crucial for us to be able to cope with our global food supply and environmental goals and to combat the risks of antibiotic resistance, be able to live throughout the country and be able to move from the consumption of foreign ful meat to more consumption of Swedish meat, organic and vegetarian. The Centre Party and the Green Party may have, and have, different views on exactly which animal welfare rules should apply or on how we best give Swedish farmers the opportunity to lead the work towards sustainable agriculture globally. However, as regards what Annie Lööf highlighted in her speech from the speaker's chair, we are in complete agreement. I'm glad you're highlighting this. The crimes we are now reading about are despicable. It is crucial for the police and politics to assume their responsibilities, and I would like to confirm, as the representative of one of the government parties, that we are prepared to meet on how we can do more.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-321	Madam President, I would like Yes, there are an enormous number of challenges facing Sweden. Antibiotic resistance is one of these. We need to work at international, European and national level to get to the very thing that we are now going against. Different tools are needed here. The Centre Party at EU level has promoted strong measures to reduce antibiotic resistance. That work must continue. It is to be welcomed that the government also takes on board the need for law enforcement. Changes are needed to protect Swedish agriculture and green industries. It is about ensuring that farmers can be safe and that farmers' families can be safe when militant animal rights activists attack them – and they have been doing so for a long time.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-323	Madam President, I would like We are in complete agreement on this.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-324	Madam President, I would like Today, 4,500 employees at Arbetsförmedlingen are notified of dismissal. This shows that the budget adopted by M, KD and SD is both ill-considered and irresponsible. This is just one of a long series of proposals that will affect people in their everyday lives. Then we see in this House how those who have pushed this through refuse to take responsibility for their own decisions. I think it has been an interesting party leader debate. We have also seen how attempts from the right-wing block to portray themselves as better friends for low-income people than others have collapsed live. Ulf Kristersson tries to make a point of maintaining the military tax, which is so good in terms of distribution policy. Then he is told: Yes, but help us! Stop the removal of the military tax so that we can have a better distribution policy! Then he says: No, we never meant it seriously. That was never the idea. It's a fake opposition. He is prepared to bring down the government – he proudly says so – except when it comes to preserving the privileges of the richest, for then it will remain. Then it'll have to be the way it is. It's a deviant. Ulf Kristersson is the Swedish political cat Måns. The herring is going to those who are like him, who make good money. Ebba Busch Thor and Jimmie Åkesson are like Bill and Bull, who agree. That's how their budget works. It is a worse option than the government we have. Above all, that option is worse because it would shift the political debate to those who always point the finger at those who have a foreign background. I don't want to live in Sweden. We will fight against the right-wing proposals in government policy on distribution, on market rents and on job security. But we also know the difference between the right and the left and that the right is hypocritical when they say that they are protecting low-income earners.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-332	Madam President, I would like Compassion and human dignity must not be mere fine words that politicians use in debates. Through the January Agreement, the Centre Party and the Liberals have ensured that personal assistance and assistance payments are of high quality and legal certainty. Anyone who has the right to receive support should also receive it. Jonas Sjöstedt has had years to fight for society's most vulnerable, but he has done nothing. He's been hiding behind the last government. It's not standing on the side of the weak. Jonas Sjöstedt! Why did the Left Party not use its vote in negotiations with the government, in budgetary negotiations, to speak for the children and young people deprived of their personal assistance during the last parliamentary term?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-335	Madam President, I would like Annie Lööf does not give an honest description of what has happened during the last term of office. We were the clearest critics of the withdrawals of personal assistance. We called for new legislation. We called for changes to the regulatory letter. We were prepared to negotiate with bourgeois parties to ensure that this would happen. I think you know that's the way it is. It is the government that is responsible for the regulation letter. There are some improvements for those who need assistance in this agreement. I welcome this, but I do not think it is enough. I think that the old investigation should be thrown into the wastebasket for good, and I think that good assistance should be guaranteed throughout the country by restoring the intentions of personal assistance and making it state-owned, not municipal. Then I think you can get a personal assistance that actually works. My question to you, Annie Lööf, is this: Are you willing to ensure that personal assistance becomes a government responsibility, for a consistent quality throughout the country?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-338	Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants a government responsibility. The January agreement also states that an investigation should be set up to look at the conditions for this very thing. I note that the Left Party would like to blame others for the consequences of their own policies. My point was precisely that changes are taking place now that the Liberals and the Center Party are part of budgetary cooperation. When the Left Party had there were no changes, more than negative. The fact remains that the Left Party could have used its position, as we have done now, in budgetary cooperation to improve for society's most vulnerable already in the last parliamentary term. That is why I ask again: what were Jonas Sjöstedt's words and debates worth to those who did not receive the help they were entitled to?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-341	Madam President, I would like The policy of the Left Party with regard to personal assistance has been and is crystal clear. We see it as an important law of freedom and rights. That's what we've been working for. We will continue to work for this. We are happy to do so together with the government and also with the Center Party, if that is the case, because it is so necessary. Then I don't think you're the right person to lecture others about who you care about. We implemented up to 90 reforms that increased equality in Sweden. You drive through attacks on labour law, market rents and a tax policy that will dramatically increase the gaps in Swedish society. There is a pretty big difference between left and right in Swedish politics.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-343	The President notes that many Members here use the floor. We on the part of the Presidents usually say that when there are debates, Members are not supposed to dune each other in the Chamber.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-344	Madam President, I would like On the record, I would like to say that, coming from Uppsala, I see myself as Trisse in Pelle Svanslös. Madam President, I would like After the January agreement, Jonas Sjöstedt has pointed out that he has his own agreement with the Prime Minister – or a deal, a memorial note or an understanding. It is an agreement that stipulates that left-wing reforms removed from KD's and M's budget should be reinstated regardless of what the Center Party and Liberals think about it. Among the reforms for which we have abolished the Left are the right to deduct trade union contributions. The factual question is this: does Jonas Sjöstedt think that he has been promised by the Prime Minister that this right to deduct will be reintroduced?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-347	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Busch Thor for her question. I have, of course, discussed this with Stefan Löfven, and I have received an assurance from him that he will try to reintroduce this. After all, he does not constitute the whole budget base. He can promise to the Social Democrats, but he cannot promise to others. That, of course, is the case. I think this is a very important reform. It is a tax reduction that goes to those who need it most, but it is also the case that if more people join a trade union – which is an economic issue for many – wages will rise and working conditions will improve in the long term, especially for those who need it most. I want to ask Ebba Busch Thor a question. You took this away to punish those who want to be in a union. But you did not remove the corresponding tax deduction for employers. They are also involved in organisations, and they are allowed to continue to deduct their fees as before. You are punishing one-sidedly anyone who wants to be a member of a trade union but allows employers to deduct. Where is justice in this, Mrs Busch Thor?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-350	Madam President, I would like What we have done is to ensure that those with low income and middle income are given priority. At this point, the Christian Democrats have not supported a Prime Minister who is making a deal that only lowers the taxes of the richest. Instead, we have chosen to give more scope to, for example, an ordinary family with two working parents, equivalent to $80 a month, and also to further decisive reinforcements in their finances. Some of it can be used for this. I think the important thing that Jonas Sjöstedt's reply highlights is that this is not a deal between two parties or four parties. This is a deal and a January agreement between five parties, where Stefan Löfven will negotiate the back door with the other parties on behalf of the Left Party. Thank you for that clarification.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-352	Madam President, I would like It is quite true that the Left Party is a wavemaster in this House. Should the Christian Democrats want to stop the removal of the military tax in order to truly live up to the words of fairer taxes, we are prepared to sit down and negotiate with you and the Moderates in the Finance Committee. In fact, you would be serious about not just lowering taxes for the richest. If you want a tax policy that benefits low- and middle-income earners, there are few things that are as accurate as retaining the right to deduct the trade union tax. It has by far the greatest impact on low income earners and often high trade union fees. This is what you take away. My question remains: what is it reasonable that employers who often have plenty of money and high profits have a right to deduct, while those who work in the Press Office, cycle off to the factory in the morning or work in the retirement home are not entitled to do so? Where's the justice in that?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-355	Madam President, I would like Europe is facing a huge challenge of Brexit, and I note, for example, that the British trade union movement is now extremely concerned and afraid of a lot of jobs disappearing. The Left Party's party programme states that the Left Party is working for Sweden to leave the EU. Jonas Sjöstedt has tried to dampen this because it became difficult in the election movement, but when he was asked how he would have voted if we had the opportunity to vote today, he said that he would have voted against a Swedish EU membership. My question to Jonas Sjöstedt is: What is it in Brexit that Jonas Sjöstedt finds so inspiring that he believes that Sweden should go the same way?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-358	Madam President, I would like There is an expression in the debate that is known as straw man. That is, you fix an opponent and set it up, and then you attack the pretended opponent and don't care what the opponent really thinks. We've never supported Brexit.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-360	Madam President, I would like It does not matter whether Jonas Sjöstedt has supported Brexit or not, the question is what Jonas Sjöstedt wants to do with Sweden. Perhaps Jonas Sjöstedt understood that Brexit was an example, otherwise I will have to explain that I took it as an example that it causes quite a lot of problems when leaving the European Union. Since Jonas Sjöstedt believes that Sweden should go the same way, I still want an answer to the question: What is so positive about leaving the EU? Why does Jonas Sjöstedt think that Sweden should leave the EU?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-362	Madam President, I would like It seems that Jan Björklund has a storehouse of straw men that he picks out one by one and goes to storms against. We have not pushed the exit question for many years, and Jan Björklund really knows that. He's making this up. Nor have we spoken out in favour of Brexit. Put the straw men away and talk for real!
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-364	Madam President, I would like I began my speech by stating that the outline of Swedish politics is a little weak at the moment. Now that we have heard all the parties, can anyone see a clear red thread in what was said from the cooperation parties? Can anyone see anything that holds them together more than they're against? A government base cannot simply be based on the temporary resolution of today's issues. New questions will come up. New challenges will meet us in the coming years. How will the cooperation parties – the five gang, if I may call them so – do this without a clear common vision of what you want? So far we have seen the collaboration deliver titles that the Five Group forgets about Grandma and the Five Group learns how to commute. However, the most fair title for this project is as soon as the Five Gang cruises in deep water. Because that is what the cooperation parties are now doing. They board the joint ship S/S JÖK:en, but they do not know where to sail. They only know what they want away from. They have read the charts from different directions and therefore believe that they are in agreement. But one shouts port, while another hollers starboard. The crew has suggestions for three different directions to sail towards. Two of them actually want a completely different captain, and one threatens to sink the whole ship if he is not allowed to be in the wheelhouse. How are they going to bring the ship into safe harbor? How will they cope with the first storm? There is reason to be worried about a stormy journey. Our task remains: to push forward as a bourgeois opposition for a welfare one can trust.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-369	Madam President, I would like The environment and climate are a matter of destiny for Sweden and the entire planet, and therefore the government has made historical efforts on this particular theme. I am relieved and pleased that in January the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party have agreed on an offensive environmental and climate policy that restores the major cuts voted by the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats in December. Now we have broader political cooperation to make Sweden the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It is a transformation that is not only necessary but will also contribute to Swedish companies being at the forefront with climate-smart solutions that the whole world will demand. I would therefore like to ask Ebba Busch Thor if the Christian Democrats do not see that this climate change is both necessary and beneficial for Sweden.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-372	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Prime Minister Stefan Löfven for the question. Of course we do. The climate issue is indeed a matter of destiny, and that is why the climate issue and the major challenges that we face and notice every day, both here in Sweden and around the whole of our planet, require more than just high-level goals without a clear roadmap for how to achieve them. So my question back is: what about nuclear energy? Is Stefan Löfven prepared to review its decision on Ringhals 1 and 2, which will be closed this year and next year? Do you have a clear target for what amount of power needs to be produced in the coming years? We believe that we need 200 terawatt hours as a clear target for 2045. However, it will require more electricity and more large-scale, secure electricity generation, where Ringhals 1 and 2 are needed. It's nice to have high-level goals, but what's the plan to achieve them?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-375	Madam President, I would like As far as energy is concerned, we have an agreement to which both the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats are subject. We're in agreement with the people who've been taken. If anyone wants to invest in nuclear power, it is free to do so. But nobody wants to, because it's so expensive. Then we'll have to do it another way. Nevertheless, it would be good if the Conservative right made its own proposals on how the climate change is actually to be done, because then we could have a debate on what is actually the most effective. But you do not, but what you do is remove climate action. It removes 40% of the budget we had, which is not so unusual around Europe. It is also common for right-wing populist forces in several countries around the world to put hookbones so that we cannot do what we have actually agreed in the Paris Agreement. But there are also major Christian Democratic parties around Europe that do the opposite. They have chosen a different path, a more responsible path. My question is: will the Christian Democrats be able to stand up to Moderates and Swedish Democrats the next time they want to slaughter in the climate budget?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-379	Madam President, I would like What happens is that we remove a number of measures that have been heavily criticized, such as the Climate Centre, which has been criticised by both the Institute of Economic Development and the Swedish National Audit Office. We can't afford it. The climate cannot wait for us to continue with projects that are symbolically fine but do not lead to reduced emissions, such as the e-bike premium. Yes, it is true that we are removing a lot of it. This reduces the suit for, for example, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency by 8 per cent as a result of administering less of what is not effective. The question remains how to achieve the high-level objectives that do not have a clear action plan. Nuclear power is needed there. Do not put down at a time when we need more electricity and not less electricity! Then we are not a right-wing conservative party. We are a Christian Democrat party. Angela Merkel – do you remember her, Stefan Löfven? Her party is our sister party.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-383	Madam President, I would like Ebba Busch Thor! The budget presented by the Christian Democrats and the Moderates and adapted to SD and voted through with SD's support means significant tax cuts, especially for those with high incomes. At the same time, you are removing a series of reforms that the Left Party has achieved during the past term of office, and it seems that you particularly dislike reforms that benefit children in financially vulnerable homes. You are removing the special investment in cultural school. This means that more people will not be able to afford to learn to play guitar or be in a theatre group. You remove free swimming school for six-year-olds – swimming school that saves lives and gives children confidence. You remove the special activities on summer vacation that allow many to have a nice, meaningful summer instead of being alone at home. You are removing the support with homework help for children from study-less homes, and you are removing the free bus cards that gave so many young people so much freedom last summer. None of these reforms are particularly expensive. These are fine freedom reforms for children from home who do not have a good economy. Why are you taking them away?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-386	Madam President, I would like What we are doing, Jonas Sjöstedt, is re-prioritising. We are still making efforts that will reach these children, who will reach the most vulnerable. It is a priority for us Christian Democrats to be a vote for those who have no vote. We are lowering taxes for low and middle-income earners, not for the very richest. For example, if you have an income of 17 000 per month, you get a percentage reduction in tax than if you have 40 000 per month. An ordinary family with children can, as I said, get a substantial cut in taxes. It is also welfare – being able to prioritise yourself instead. At the same time, we reintroduce the extracurricular money that you have been involved with and removed. It makes it possible for children in homes where Mom and Dad right now do not have a job to go to get a meaningful leisure time and learn to swim, to play football or to play guitar.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-389	Madam President, I would like I understand why Ebba Busch Thor wants to talk percentages and not crowns. But it is crowns you live on, and in the number of crowns it is the high earners who are the big winners and children who are the big losers when you make the budget. There is a difference both in basic view and in distribution between that some should be able to apply for a leisure grant – on graces – and that all children should be able to learn to swim, all children should be able to take the bus, all children should be able to go to cultural school and all children should be able to get help with homework. That is the difference between right-wing and left-wing politics. For us, the right to grow up with access to culture and meaningful leisure time and the opportunity to move out of their own neighbourhood is something of course that we want to give to all children. It is not the opportunity for a few to be tested if they can afford to do those things. Here goes the dividing line between right and left.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-392	Madam President, I would like No, Jonas Sjöstedt, the difference between you and me is that you want to make sure that me and my children get the money... when we don't need it. I want to make sure that those whose mothers and fathers don't have a job right now get the opportunity to all the activities that I can afford to pay for my children but that they can't afford to pay for theirs. That's what I choose to prioritize. At the same time, we will spend the coming years more on care for the elderly, on health care, on a changed LSS that will allow children with disabilities to finally get the assistance they need. That is what we have chosen to prioritise. And the Christian Democrats have not chosen to give a tax reduction to an average director of any of the major banks in Sweden with SEK 560,000 a year. This corresponds to the entire salary of an ordinary midwife in the form of a tax reduction. No, we haven't prioritised that. We have chosen to give priority to those with the lowest incomes in our budget.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-395	Madam President, I would like An important thing for the KD in the budget that was pushed through in the Riksdag with the Moderates and with the support of the Swedish Democrats was to close the Equality Agency. We're saving it now, but let me still try to understand. Sweden has about 220 authorities. These are such things as the National Board for Workers' Inventions, the Swedish Agency for Support to Faith Communities, the Auditor's Inspectorate, the Swedish Tax Agency and many more. All these people want KD to remain, and I have no other opinion. They have clear data. The role of the gender equality authority is, according to its instructions, to work against men's violence against women, honour-related violence and oppression, prostitution and human trafficking. In view of all the authorities that the KD chose not to close down when one had the chance, what in the role of the Equality Authority do you think is too small or insignificant to gather in an authority?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-399	Madam President, I would like This is a relevant issue, and I am happy to be humbled by the fact that another way forward would have been to try, for example, to tighten up the mandate to the Equality Agency further. Our greatest criticism of the Equality Authority has not been what it was responsible for, but whether this was really the best way to organise it. I'll be back in the past fall. In the midst of a burning metoo movement, when we heard so many women who finally – in some cases after many years – dared to testify to what they were subjected to, the police sent out the message that, unfortunately, we have too many rape cases, too many reports that we have to put on high because we do not have enough resources to deal with it. We have chosen, for example, to sharpen our ideas about what tasks the police should have and increase the resources for the police to reorganise the way in which gender equality issues are handled.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-403	Madam President, I would like We are also strengthening the police, and the January agreement now includes clear objectives and work to get 10 000 more police workers in the next few years. Of course, those who report a serious crime should be able to count on the crime to be investigated, and people who commit crimes can expect to be convicted for it. I am also proud that one of the things I have been working for in the Green Party is the consent legislation that we have now finally got in place. This seems to mean that more people who commit sexual abuse and rape are actually also convicted of it. However, the fact that the police have not done their job is a bad argument for closing down another authority, the Equality Agency. The problem in part of the structured work on gender equality has been that it has not been allowed to be structured. There have been projects on projects. Some have been successful; some have never been evaluated, for you have quickly gone over to something else. That is precisely why, as we do in all other areas, the work must be brought together in one authority. That is why it is so important that we save it, and that is why I find it extremely difficult to understand why the KD wants to close it.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-406	Madam President, I would like It is also about some of the well-functioning structures that existed prior to the establishment of the Equality Agency, such as the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala and targeted assignments to some county boards. Funds have been taken from these working structures and put them at the Gender Equality Agency – which has been drawn up with a lot of challenges, including shortcomings in the working environment and other things for those who worked at the agency during the past year. As I said, I am happy to be humbled in the discussion on how best to organise this. We have come to the conclusion that we need to step up the fight in gender equality work – but not through the Equality Agency. Finally, I would like to use the opportunity to thank Gustav Fridolin for all the party leaders' debates that we have had together. Now I have not brought with me the paper I have that contains a gift to the Nature Conservation Association to continue the efforts to cleanse our seas and our waters.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-409	Madam President, I would like The choices Europe faces are some of the most crucial in our time. This cooperation has been built up over decades to secure peace, freedom and democracy in our part of the world. This has led to the democratisation of the fascist dictatorships of southern Europe. It also led to the democratization of the Communist dictatorships of Eastern Europe. People longed for this democratic cooperation that was so successful. But it stands and weighs now. Should this cooperation be broken up and broken up, or should we deepen cooperation? Let me remind you how successful it has been. In addition to that of democracy, it has given us a substantial increase in prosperity in our part of the world. Our own gross domestic product in Sweden – our prosperity – has increased by 50% since we joined the EU. Over the same period of time before, growth was significantly lower. This, of course, has to do with increased trade. Increased trade provides more jobs and more resources for well-being, and that is what it has led to. That's why the British are now so worried that the withdrawal will lead to the opposite. It is estimated that the effect of a svexit would be 150 000 fewer jobs compared to the UK dimension. Sweden's gross domestic product would be reduced by 300 billion, prices and interest rates would be higher and so on. That is a strong economic argument for membership. Two parties have exits in their program. After all, we will have an EU debate throughout the spring ahead of the elections. Now both parties seem dark that they want to quit, but it is written in their program. Then they must say that they want to stay and think it is good, but they say that they want to get out. Many parties in here who are in favour of Swedish EU membership are extremely anxious to take steps to deepen cooperation, but that is what is needed now. If we are to solve the climate crisis, we need more cooperation, not less. If we are to solve the problems of crime, we need more cooperation, not less. If we are to solve the issues of jobs, growth and welfare, we need to deepen fiscal cooperation. Sweden should have the objective of joining the euro within a number of years and working in depth with the European economies on which we are so dependent. Of course, the isolation of a country in our part of the world would work, but we would become poorer and the world more dangerous. Alone is not strong; strong is one together. Dare to make this choice – that we should cooperate more and not less in Europe – will be the most important message of the Liberals in the European elections we are now facing. But it is not just about the elections, it is about the future of our part of the world at all. We need to work more together – not less together – in this part of the world.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-416	Madam President, I would like Liberals are an extreme party, an outer party in terms of distribution policy, which wants the most extreme redistribution policy for the benefit of those who already have. The abolition of the military tax is one-sidedly beneficial to high-income earners, but it is also one-sidedly beneficial to men. Of the 5.6 billion used for this, it would be 4.4 billion that goes to men if you remove the defence tax. That would be 1.2 billion going to women. This is to consciously and directly increase the income gap between men and women in Sweden. We would much rather use this money to invest in health care and care for the elderly and to raise the wages of all the low-paid women who do the work there every day. You choose to lower the tax for Sweden's high-income people – the men – in the richest neighborhoods in our big cities.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-419	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt has a strange attitude toward taxes. He thinks the government would get the maximum of's cat revenue if you brought in 100 percent in taxes, but that's not the case. If you lower taxes so that people want to start and run businesses, this creates jobs and prosperity. That's the foundation. Money for our well-being does not come from the public sector, Jonas Sjöstedt, but it comes from creating jobs and successful companies and having a strong competitiveness. That's how jobs are created. Sweden has the world's highest marginal taxes. This is bad for Sweden, because it means that we do not attract skilled entrepreneurs. Swedish entrepreneurs move abroad. Scientists, scientists and other talents that we would like to retain in Sweden are leaving. Jonas Sjöstedt may think that it will be much more equal for us who remain here because everyone gets a little poorer. The point is, however, that we all benefit from getting talents in different areas to stay in Sweden or to go to Sweden. It is possible that poverty is easier to bear if everyone is equally poor, but I prefer to live in a developed prosperity society.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-422	Madam President, I would like There is very little basis for what Jan Björklund says about the fact that it would affect, for example, the number of hours worked if the military tax were removed. It's simply something that you, Jan Björklund, are doing because you want to increase the class divides. We want to do the opposite. We want this money to go to those who work in healthcare and in care for the elderly in order for us to have good care and care for the elderly throughout Sweden. These are two different ways of looking at who needs something and whose turn it is in Swedish society. The statistics are extremely clear. There are municipalities in Sweden where not a single woman pays military tax. This goes to the men. It goes to the rich middle-aged men, such as yourself, who live in Bromma or Danderyd and who will get more money while the resources are not enough for the welfare. It is an extreme policy – an outlying policy.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-425	Madam President, I would like But it is a policy that creates economic development, and that is the whole point. If more companies are set up, more jobs will be created, and people – including those who are unemployed – will have the opportunity to work. The most important thing for those who have a weak economy is that they get a job to go to and that they have a salary. That's the most important thing. Sjöstedt says that the collective reforms create class gaps, but we believe that they create jobs and growth. That, of course, is the ideological difference. If we get successful companies and successful entrepreneurs, we have stable jobs that also give income to those who would otherwise have gone unemployed. That's the whole point of this. One thing that statistics and economists agree on is that precisely the military tax is counterproductive. The government will soon get more money to remove the defense tax than to have it there. It is one of the taxes that really discourage growth and development; that is the truth. But you socialists are possessed by fighting wealth. Instead, we Liberals are committed to fighting poverty.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-429	Madam President, I would like The agreement reached by the Liberals with the Social Democrats states that a comprehensive tax reform will be implemented. However, it writes in cryptic terms that the reform will lead to a reduction in household indebtedness and to an improvement in the functioning of the housing market. This should be done, among other things, to finance the abolition of the military tax, we understand. I know these words. When used by liberal economists, it usually means one thing above all: property tax! I'm sorry to swear. A re-imposed property tax would mean that a small family in a small house in Upplands-Bro, for example, would receive a tax increase of two and a half thousand dollars a month. The question is: Can you, Jan Björklund, guarantee that you will not contribute to the restoration of property tax in Sweden?
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-433	Madam President, I would like Yeah.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-434	Madam President, I would like Very good – thank you very much!
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-435	Madam President, I would like One third of all coral reefs are already doomed. In less than 50 years, more than half of all wild vertebrates have disappeared. Bolsonaro wants to destroy more in the Amazon. The UN Panel on Climate Change gives us ten years to make the necessary changes. It is a great responsibility that rests on us. We who live now determine the conditions for all who come after us – our children and their children. Sweden can do a lot and will do a lot. 15 billion in tax exchange, ban on exploration of fossil fuels, conversion of the AP funds, ban on the sale of new fossil cars in 2030, fast trains, trains to the continent, air tax, bicycle commuting and child-friendly cities are just the beginning. Sweden will take the leadership. 20 years ago, Parliament decided to establish environmental objectives. They are the backbone of systematic, purposeful work. And in our declaration of government, we are clear. New milestones are being developed, and we will increase the pace of work. The commitment to the environment is growing every day in business, schools, among young and old people throughout the country, and there is still much to be done in the work on environmental objectives. Together, we will achieve results. We will move from an economy that fills mountains of electronic scrap on Africa's shores and continents with plastic in the oceans to smart solutions, recycling and digitalisation. We're going from foreign ugly meat from animals fed with antibiotics to more local food and more vegetarian. We are going to go from wasting the energy stored under the earth's crust for millions of years to high-tech solutions of the energy that every second hits the Earth. We should move from a society that burns out both the plane and people and where wealth is measured in gadgets and consumption to a society where we have more time for each other and ourselves. It's a future to fight for. I'll see you later.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-441	Madam President, I would like I don't usually ask for a line on the Green Party spokesperson. But now it is Gustav Fridolin's last party leader debate, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank him. You've definitely made a big impression. Sweden is once again tops the international environmental and climate ranking. We're going to be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. That we have achieved these successes is a major part of you and the Green Party. I would also like to thank you for your efforts as Minister of Education. It is undoubtedly the case that not least the work of the S Kol Commission has laid a good foundation for a broad-based school policy. School results are beginning to reverse, and we have more employees in school. We'll carry your work on for an equal school. I want to thank you with books that I want you to read with your children. At the same time, it is a thank you for the efforts that you have made for the effort to read for children. Thank you for what you have done, Gustav Fridolin!
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-446	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Stefan. I am among those who have negotiated with Fredrik Reinfeldt as well as Göran Persson and you, and it is you that I have been prepared to form a government with. You've got your feet on Earth and you're ready to listen to people. Keep it! The cooperation that we started four years ago said all croaking accident ravens would never last. I want everyone to know that we were subjected to trials, but we passed them. Now our parties are embarking on a new journey. When other countries fall for the crude right-wing populism, Sweden chooses a different path. We'll stand by. We have a government where the environment has a voice, but racism does not. Thank you for your cooperation to achieve this! It feels like a good opportunity to leave this particular chapter to your commitment.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-449	Madam President, I would like I may have had reason to ask for a reply, but I still think that the day is better suited for a delivery than for a reply. We think differently on a lot of questions. However, I would like to take the opportunity today to say what I have said some time before, that I sincerely appreciate that you have put the focus on environmental and climate issues much further than most of us. We often land on different conclusions in practical politics, but your commitment is not mistaken. Neither do I. The fact that you also sometimes understand the importance of the liberal market economy and innovative entrepreneurship for a successful environmental policy is of great value to me. I see this quite often. There is improvement potential here, but you have it in you. Develop it even more! Finally, I experience a growing interest in the liberal and conservative traditions of the Moderates in so many different parties. Therefore, I would like to send with you a book, Lars Tobisson's excellent biography of my own political role model Gösta Bohman. You don't need to share all his views in order to enjoy the book.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-453	Madam President, I would like I am happy to be the kind of person who gives books and soon one who has time to read even more books. I also thank you for the kind words of Ulf Kristersson regarding not least the environmental commitment from which my party is run and which we share with many people from different parties. Sometimes moderates and environmental parties also meet in an environmental commitment and can connect exactly what Ulf Kristersson describes. An important insight to have with you, however, and which I am thinking more and more about, is precisely this that some people's commitment can change the world, but that it will not be enough if the changes are not made well. We in politics are so used to negotiating. We sit down to find a solution between two different positions. But with the threat of climate change, it is not possible to negotiate. That's how science works. We must do what is necessary, not then, not when we can afford or when Ulf Kristersson's budget tables go together, but we must do it now.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-456	Madam President, I would like I remember, Gustav Fridolin, when we were brand new here in Parliament. It raged a sometimes rather exaggerated media debate about the fact that we had entered as new to the Riksdag. There was some party that refused to share a copier and elevator with us. We were seen as a health and safety problem. That's why we or they – I don't remember who – had to change premises, it was said. I don't even know if it's true, but it was a pretty hateful mood and very polarized. Gustav Fridolin, who in many ways is my direct opposite, was the only one, what I can remember, who came up to our office and said hello and welcomed us. That is the memory that I want to take with me by Gustav Fridolin, not his efforts in the government, for them we can leave behind, but that he has always been a good, honest and nice person. I didn't bring you a present. I have been taught that props are forbidden in the Chamber, so I did not dare bring anything with me. But I remember when Gustav Fridolin, during a visit to Vittsjö, invited me for pizza in Vittsjö. Unfortunately, I didn't have time to come. But Vittsjö and Sölvesborg are quite close, so when Gustav Fridolin is in Vittsjö he will be very happy to get in touch and come to Sölvesborg, because there they have much better pizza than they have anywhere else. Then I'll invite Gustav Fridolin. It will be my present to Gustav Fridolin. Thank you for Gustav being Gustav!
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-460	Madam President, I would like That was so good, but then came this claim that there is some better pizzeria than Vittsjö pizzeria. I'd love a pizza with you, Jimmie Åkesson. I can do it in Vittsjö, and I can also do it in Sölvesborg. I think there is much value in talking also to those who have opinions that are very far from what I stand for. And I believe in and have tried to show that my opportunity to get people who have chosen to put their vote on you and your party to one day think about and consider other ways is to respect those they have elected to Parliament. This is not the case in every opinion that is put forward and not in every exchange of views, because they can be harsh precisely because our view of humanity is often very different, but in the parliamentary defence and the positions of trust that you have actually been given in democratic elections. I have done everything I could in my political career and will do everything I can for the rest of my life so that no more people will be attracted by the ideas that large parts of your party stand for. I will continue to do so. But one way for me to do that is to show respect for the people that I hope one day can choose another way.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-463	Madam President, I would like My very first party debate was actually against Gustav Fridolin. We were in high school, and it was at my high school in Värnamo. Since then there have been quite a few debates between me and Gustav. I have always appreciated the discussions and debates, and I have always appreciated Gustav's honest and sincere commitment. For many, Gustav Fridolin is mainly associated with the school. I would add to that his international commitment, his commitment to solidarity, humanity and humanism and to xenophobia. Gustav Fridolin now leaves the role of spokesperson and has said himself that he longs to teach again. The Center Party has given a gift to Plan Sweden in the name of Gustav for more girls to attend school. Today, 130 million girls around the world do not go to school, and we must change that together. I want to thank you for good resistance, good cooperation and good conversations over the years, Gustav Fridolin. Many thanks and good luck!
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-467	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Center Party for the gift and Annie Lööf for her kind words now, but not just now. We both know that this life is not always the easiest thing to get along with everything else that we want to do and be. I have often been impressed by the way you puzzle and trix to make it work, and I am happy about the occasions that despite your busy schedule I have had time to exchange a few words about it or received a friendly text message on the way. It's helped. Thank you!
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-469	Madam President, I would like I want to thank you, Gustav, for all the work, for all the commitment and for all the tough things you've been through. We have, of course, been divided many times – we are from different parties – but I have never doubted your conviction about the climate, the big question of the future, people on the run and the Swedish school. Your purpose has always been good, and you have worked hard. For that, I want to thank you. I do not think this is the last time we will hear from you in the political debate either. Somehow you'll show up in the future. I think it's time for reading break. It is time for you to have time to read what you want to read yourself and that you never had time to join as a party leader. That's why I want to give you a book that I read myself during the Christmas holidays and that I liked very much. It takes place far from the Government Office but also far from Vittsjö. It is one of the best detectives that have been written last year, and it takes place in the border region between Norrbotten and Västerbotten, i.e. more for my home area. It's called Silver Road. I hope you wake up one morning and don't really know what to do and that you will remember this book and treat yourself to lie down on the couch. I think it's been a while. All the good things for you, Gustav!
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-475	Madam President, I would like I thank Jonas. The book looks really exciting, and it's really going to be read. It sounds like I'm going to retire, but I'm not going to. I know that my life will be full, just like that of many others. It is reasonable that those of us who have received such a position of trust find it difficult to reconcile everyday life. It's extremely stressful and hard to make it work. But is it not strange that so many other people in Sweden, in all kinds of jobs, live under exactly the same conditions and recognize themselves in this particular party leadership? Somewhere we have to create a more reasonable working life, and here I have often been happy to meet Jonas Sjöstedt in discussions on how this will become a reality.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-478	Madam President, I would like I was thinking about how to thank someone your age after a rather long career without it sound like you're going to retire, Gustav Fridolin. The Green Party has rules in its statutes that you can only be party leader for a certain period of time, which is why you leave your mission. To me, those kinds of rules have always seemed strange. We have had many debates over the years. Your commitment to the environment and international issues is widely acknowledged, but I would, of course, like to emphasise your commitment to education. Here we have often met and indeed landed on different lines and had different views, but I have never doubted your commitment to children and young people getting as much knowledge as possible to have a good future. This is what school is ultimately about. I thank you for the debates on education and other issues over the years where we have met. When it comes to your international involvement, Doctors Without Borders get a penny from the Liberals. I think it's well in line with what you're most committed to.
i-24e55f1c7e2108f2-482	Madam President, I would like I thank Jan Björklund. In politics, you want to set trends and rules and get others to follow. In recent months, however, I have been very pleased that the Liberals have never looked at the principles of rotation that the Green Party has. I will certainly have several opportunities to thank you, Jan Björklund, for your efforts in the political field. But now I would like to thank you in particular for the work we have been able to do with school for a long time and for the work we have done over the past few weeks and months in order for Sweden to have a government – and a government that does not follow the trend that you have well described in this House and that is the reality in many other European countries. Let's try something else to keep populism at bay. Madam President, I would like It was especially fun when we could meet and find a common way forward on school issues in the January agreement. There were, of course, things that did not bear the stamp of green politics. But there was also a lot we could meet in, not least in the commitment that we will end up with a really equal school. I hope you continue to be willing to listen to all the research available on how we can get there, Jan Björklund. I am also pleased that my party has agreed to develop a knowledge base for how Sweden can get a state school during its term of office. I know that Jan Björklund has been fighting for this for a long time, ever since both of our parties voted against the municipalisation once upon a time. Rightly done and, in addition to what we are doing now, to get government responsibility for the funding of the school and the professional programme for teachers, we can find a way to really ensure that wherever in the country you live, in the capital, city, suburb, place of use or country, you should have a really good school.
