i-0cf4937d69244bf8-3	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservation to be approved. Sweden has major problems with illegal so-called cabotage transport. It is therefore foreign trucks that come to Sweden with goods and then have permission to drive some trips domestic and stay in the country for seven days. Instead, they linger in Sweden for a very long time and drive a lot of domestic transport illegally. The rules on cabotage came into being for environmental reasons and so that a lorry that drove goods to Sweden would not have to drive empty back to their home country. So the purpose was good. However, this is heavily abused by rogue hauliers for competitive purposes. Just look at one of the places that exists during, for example, Christmas holidays. Then the cars are still standing for the hundreds, while the foreign drivers have gone home. The problems of illegal cabotage increased when more countries joined the EU and thus became aware of the possibility of cabotage. A foreign driver from Romania or Bulgaria, for example, does not have anywhere near the salaries of a Swedish driver during cabotage. It does not follow the same collective agreement and it does not have the same requirements for driving and rest periods. One of the cases that was noted last year was about a Romanian driver who month-out and month-in driven goods for a Swedish company between Sweden and Denmark and only earned 5 000 SEK a month. Other cases are about Macedonian drivers who drive with fake driving licences but still get away with it. Many of the foreign drivers who drive in Sweden earn around 15 per cent of an average Swedish driver's salary. That is why it is, of course, cheaper for companies to use this type of labour. But it also poses dangers to ordinary people. When I'm on the road with my two little children in the car, I don't want to share a 60 ton truck with a tired and stressed driver who might drive on a flat tire and who, in the worst case, even lacks a driver's license. On Swedish roads, Swedish safety rules apply to everyone. Madam President, I would like Last week I visited a transport company at home in my constituency in Jönköping County. They told me that illegal cabotage does not only cause a great deal of irritation among their drivers, but also, by extension, reduces revenue and thus reduces jobs. And the problems don't end there. Illegal cabotage also enables other criminal activities such as the smuggling of alcohol, tobacco and drugs. As early as 2012, the police in Västra Götaland reported that the search for cheaper and cheaper transport has led to increased criminal activity along the roads. Organised crime is increasingly targeting transport theft, but there are also reports of trafficking and trafficking in human beings. The EU has now put forward proposals for a new mobility package relating to cabotage, among other things, but it is a compromise proposal in which the countries of the West have had to compromise a great deal. The proposal involves, among other things, a so-called cooling-off period, which will make it illegal to stack cabotage transports on each other. A compulsory GPS system is also being introduced in lorries, so-called smart tachographs. If these can also be tampered with as they do today, it remains to be seen, but in any case this should not be introduced until 2024. What does all these EU laws help when companies still break them? We need more policemen on the roads, we need more opportunities to prove that illegality has been committed and we need to ensure that illegal cabotage is actually stopped. The Swedish Democrats have proposed that, in connection with this bill, it should also be legislated that a car and any trailer that has driven the transport should be registered on the consignment note. This is something that Sweden's Åkeri companies have also asked for, and it could be another proof in the hunt for the criminals. However, the government does not consider this to be necessary, since it claims that it could not constitute evidence. But I believe it must be up to the prosecutor and the court to decide what can be considered as evidence and not. The proposal we are putting forward is in no way the solution to the major problems posed by illegal cabotage. We understand that, too. But it is a small step along the way, and for us it is important to take all the steps we can to stop the criminal's progress. Madam President, I would like There's nothing wrong with the bill itself. On the contrary – it is good that we are now receiving electronic shipping notes. This is something that the industry has been asking for and which all parties support. However, the fact that the government does not take every chance to make it more difficult for criminals and put a brake on those who try to exploit the system is nothing but sad.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-17	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs' report No 2 on electronic consignment notes in road transport. Madam President, I would like It is successful companies and people's work that create prosperity and thus the conditions for well-being. Therefore, the Social Democracy has always stood up for the principle that everyone who can do the right thing: Do your duty, demand your right. This approach characterises our policies in a number of areas, such as the principle of loss of income in our social security systems and the principle of qualification of unemployment insurance. The strong society we build together. Each person contributes according to ability, and everyone is helped as needed by the moments of life where one so needs. This is how we get growth, so we create security and so we safeguard democratic values and principles. However, there are things that have a negative impact on growth and not infrequently on individual people: unnecessary bureaucracy, administrative burdens, different types of regulation in different countries and criminality, to name but a few obstacles. The report we are debating today is not about cabotage rules but about harmonising rules for road transport. It is important that international transport can be conducted in accordance with a regulatory framework common to the countries with which we have trade relations. It is also important that the regulatory framework is adapted to the modern solutions used to organise transport. A uniform and modern regulatory framework for freight transport is not only beneficial for transport companies, but is also of great importance for other companies in the export and import industry. The development has for a long time been moving towards a greater focus on door-to-door transport and a closer connection of transport functions to the manufacturing and sales processes of companies. Today's regulation of international road freight transport is based on the CMR Convention's provisions that a consignment note should be issued in paper form in triplicate and signed by the Parties. International regulation was introduced over half a century ago, and in many ways it is not up-to-date. Access to the e-CMR protocol would lead to more modern regulation. Increased use of digital transport documents means more efficient and modern information management, which in turn leads to reduced transaction costs. Another effect of increased digitalisation is that it can lead to simpler and safer controls by the authorities on the compliance of transport companies with regulations. This is important for reasons of competition. Ensuring compliance with the rules in force on transport provides greater conditions for competition on equal terms. The fact that the regulation of the documentation to accompany transport is common to the countries can also be expected to reduce transaction costs as such. Today, 12 states have acceded to the e-CMR Protocol. Most of them are EU countries, and several are located in the immediate vicinity of Sweden. There is also a request from the European Commission for Member States to accede to the Protocol. A number of Member States are also preparing for access. It is important that Sweden does not stay out of international cooperation. Legislation by entering into protocols is not the way we normally legislate, but in the field of transport this has become increasingly common. This means that small changes are made to the text of the law itself. It is in principle a question of repealing the earlier annex, a change in the title of the law and the introduction of two new annexes referring to articles of the Convention. For this reason, the motion by the Swedish Democrats misses its goal. The changes required in the exercise require the preparation of a different law from that to which this product refers. Therefore, Parliament should reject the motion.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-31	Madam President, I would like It is good that there are now electronic shipping bills, and that is something that all parties agree on. The proposal put forward by the Swedish democrats is, of course, an investigation, and it is then a question of future legislation. However, the government rejects our proposal, which could be a small step in the right direction towards preventing illegal cabotage. The reason is that the Government does not consider it necessary because the proposal should not have any legal significance. In view of this, I would like to ask a Member of the European Parliament, Mr Järrebring, the following: is it the opinion of the Social Democrats that it should now be politicians who decide what can be regarded as evidence or not and no longer the courts? Or is this a clumsy formulation of the government because there were no good arguments against introducing the proposal?
i-X19zgt9CWeEkWemXrJ16yZ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Angelica Lundberg, for the question! We Social Democrats have been pushing these issues for a long time, and we welcome the fact that the Swedish Democrats are following an important line in terms of prosecuting crimes and ensuring that there is decent transport in Sweden. The Swedish democrats' motion is aimed at introducing requirements for information linked to the shipping notes in relation to Swedish legislation. In Swedish legislation, it is free to choose whether to use shipping notes on domestic transport. That is what is meant by the government's statement that they do not play a major role because those who still intend to cheat choose not to use shipping notes.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-36	Madam President, I would like Member of the Järrebring says that the Social Democrats have been pushing the issues for a long time, and now the government is in its sixth year in power. The problems of illegal cabotage transport are well known and cause, as I mentioned in my speech, problems for ordinary people, for entrepreneurs, and contribute to increased crime in our society. The changes actually introduced by the government in 2017 to be able to impose fines instead of fines have clearly not had the desired effect as the problems remain. The trick just keeps going.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-39	Madam President, I would like When the government returns with proposals in the area of cabotage, we look forward to the Swedish Democrats also supporting this bill.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-40	Madam President, I would like For several years, the Riksbank, led by Stefan Ingves, has asked for a register of private individuals' financial assets and liabilities. Like an accident raven, he evils himself over the so-called "debtbergs" of households. It is a mountain that in itself exists, but if it is related to household assets it is more like a pit. The Swedish Democrats believe that there are many reasons to stop the proposal for a study on statistics on household assets and liabilities. I will mention some of the reasons for our position. We believe that it is extremely inappropriate to have a register where individuals can be linked to their potential assets. Banking secrecy is our duty to protect; everything else is a violation of privacy. In addition, opening up access to such information to several authorities can have devastating consequences. I am convinced that many people remember the previous term of office, where the lack of cybersecurity by the authorities left a great deal to be desired. When a register is not needed, it should also not be implemented. In recent years, the Riksbank has taken several measures in order to reduce possible risks of high borrowing in connection with the economic downturn. As a result of these measures, the growth of the loan stock has fallen to its lowest level since the end of 2014. At the same time, housing prices have stabilised and the Stockholm Stock Exchange has more than recovered from last year's decline. Banks assume satisfactory responsibility for lending to mortgage customers. Today, banks are demanding that borrowers be able to manage an interest rate of about 7% and also have to live on. We are far from such an interest rate, and no one is talking about these levels for the foreseeable future. Madam President, I would like Households' assets far exceed household debt. It is therefore unnecessary to talk about a debt mountain while households have a huge asset mountain. Although we only look at the realisable assets of households, i.e. exclude pensions and the value of dwellings, we see that the assets far exceed the total loan stock. The Riksbank has collected statistics for 2017 from the eight largest banks to see who has housing loans. The statistics clearly show that households with the largest incomes have large loans. Over 50 per cent of Swedish households had no mortgages at all, and only 4 per cent had debts exceeding 3 million. Adding the wealth of households, we can assume that these are usually associated with high-income households. Thus, households should be able to cope with possible interest rate increases. If the crisis comes, Sweden is very vulnerable with this high level of debt, say several. But what we can see from the financial crisis that struck ten years ago is that for Denmark, Norway and Sweden, which had among the highest household debts in the OECD, bnp fell less than for Finland – who had the lowest-indebted households in the whole Nordic region. On the other hand, what most agree is that maintaining consumption is a prerequisite for reducing the negative effects of a recession. As consumption decreases, jobs disappear. As a result, people cannot pay their housing costs and have to drastically reduce their other consumption, which, in addition to being a personal tragedy in turn, increases the negative impact in society. By focusing on households' opportunities and willingness to keep their consumption going, we ensure that as many people as possible have a job to go to. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to mention that once there are statistics at individual and household level on assets and liabilities, a poor Minister of Finance may be tempted to reintroduce the wealth tax. There are plenty of reasons why the Swedish Democrats do not want to see a restored wealth tax. One reason that should be mentioned here is that when the tax increases, household consumption is reduced, which leads to companies being worse off and having to lay off and unemployment is rising. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to endorse the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-51	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating a report on which we broadly agree in all parties except the SD, which just stated that they have a reservation against this. What is at issue is that the committee proposes that the government set up an inquiry into new statistics on household assets and liabilities and that the Riksdag should announce this to the government. The investigation will, among other things, thoroughly highlight and analyse how detailed statistics on households' assets and liabilities can be built up and used without prejudice to privacy and personal data protection. Why do we need these statistics? Until 2007 there were detailed and individual-based statistics on Swedish households' assets and liabilities. The statistics were produced by SCB and were part of the basis for the wealth register and the self-declaration. The statistics ended in 2007 when the wealth tax was abolished and the data were no longer recorded in the tax return. As Swedish households' indebtedness began to rise in the early 2010s, the issue of statistics on households' financial position has been regularly discussed here and outside this house. Both the Riksbank and Finansinspektionen have for several years been calling for more detailed data on households' assets and liabilities in order for the authorities to be able to analyse developments and take the right measures in, for example, monetary policy and the area of financial stability. But it is not just the Riksbank and Finansinspektionen. In recent years, the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, and the European Systemic Risk Board have also recommended Sweden to build up detailed statistics on households' financial position in order to analyse and meet the risks that high indebtedness can entail. SCB has examined whether alternative means of collecting wealth and debt data exist but have not found them, inter alia because SCB has no legal basis for collecting such information from financial institutions. The lack of statistics led the Riksbank to investigate the possibilities of collecting detailed data on households' financial position. The Riksbank chose not to further develop the proposal it made, but in May 2019 submitted the presentation we are now talking about, i.e. the statistics on households' assets and liabilities, to the Riksdag. In the presentation, the Riksbank proposes to set up an investigation to investigate whether and how new statistics on these assets and liabilities should be collected and managed. It is also written that both SCB and Finansinspektionen support the presentation. The Riksbank's presentation states in summary that households' debts have increased sharply in recent years. Debt involves risks for the entire financial system, risks that can result in high costs in terms of financial instability, loss of production, unemployment and deterioration of public finances. Since the abolition of the wealth tax in 2007, data and knowledge are lacking as to which individuals or households are highly indebted, how large the scope is and how vulnerable they are to disturbances in the economy. Swedish authorities currently lack legal support to collect the data required to obtain adequate and useful statistics in the field. According to the Riksbank, in order for the Riksbank and Finansinspektionen to be able to conduct crisis prevention work and counteract financial instability, detailed and individual-based data are required. This is in order to protect the systemically important financial institutions and our citizens. This is an issue that has been discussed back and forth for several years – especially in the last ten years, when we have not had this data. As I said, we are now in agreement, all parties except the Swedish Democrats. I'd rather have them too. It's almost a pity they're not there. Of course you can tell that there are problems. Someone can get the records, and what can happen? There will be problems for wealthy people who get their data leaked and so on. But in such cases we have that problem in every authority that collects various data. I believe that this comes down to the fact that the Swedish Democrats are afraid of what the honourable Member concluded with here, namely the wealth tax. You can be. It's absolutely nothing. We get to have different opinions in here. But that tells me one thing: when it comes to protecting people out there, it is more important for the members of the Swedish Democrats to protect the wealthy than to protect the people who really need it when the crisis strikes, which is usually the weakest.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-62	Madam President, I would like In the light of the changing security situation, our awareness is increasing. It is therefore a good thing that the government is proposing amendments and tightening up of several laws, and today we are dealing with adjustments to the Protection Act. The Protection Act is the law that allows for enhanced protection of certain buildings, facilities, areas and other objects, which are called protected objects in the Act. This may be the case for threats of sabotage, terrorist crimes, espionage and aggravated robbery of these objects. When deciding on protective objects, this means that unauthorised persons do not have access to the area or object in question – in the new proposal with the extension that the ban also covers access by unmanned vehicles, such as radio-controlled drones. The access ban may be maintained by physical guarding of police, military personnel or other special personnel, then referred to as security guards. Examples of buildings and areas that can already be decided to be protected are, for example, the residence of the head of state and successor to the throne, the Prime Minister's residence, military vessels and aircraft, and water areas of particular importance for military defence. But this also applies to buildings and facilities that the state or a municipality rents or owns and that are used to control government or municipal activities, such as the house we are in – the Parliament building. Madam President, I would like The list in the Act of Possible Protected Objects is supplemented with additional security-worthy activities, such as police operations, postal management and food supply and other supplies of importance to Sweden's security of supply. New in the proposal is that ships used for the transport of nuclear material, such as M/S Sigrid, should be classed as protective objects. The new proposal should also allow other objects to be decided as protective objects when there is an increased level of preparedness, if the objects are relevant to the overall defence. One such example is locomotives and train wagons. Now that the access ban will also include unmanned vehicles, drones, the ability of security guards to intervene against them will also be strengthened. They are now given increased powers to intervene and can, if necessary, use force against the craft. There have been several incidents of drones circulating over the Riksdag building with both film and sound recording. In some of these cases, they may have been curious tourists without evil intentions, but in at least one of these cases there has been a suspicion of other intent according to news reports. If this should happen again, then, from 1 January 2020 onwards, security guards can use force against the drone, if the proposal is passed and if it is justifiable and necessary. This part of the adjustment can hopefully be a valuable tool to combat the problem of flying with drones over protective objects and in the Swedish Armed Forces' exercises, which the Swedish Armed Forces themselves experience has increased. Madam President, I would like With this brief summary, I would like to call for approval of the Committee on Defence's proposal, which, by the way, is supported by all parties.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-71	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to endorse the proposal. As Mrs Heléne says, we agree on this. The proposal addresses a very urgent tightening up and updating of the Protection Act and the Camera Protection Act. With a worsening security policy situation, there are a whole range of laws that are in need of an update. The County Administrative Boards have just carried out a review of the applicability of regulations for total defence – if our legislation is up to date in terms of our defence capabilities. In this work, 46 laws and regulations have been reviewed. The County Administrative Boards' audit found grounds for comment in 34 of these. This clearly shows that there is every reason to review our legislation, and it is a process that we have now started. Moore's team, I think most people know. It's about the number of transistors that fit on a circuit board growing exponentially. Since it was presented in 1965, this theory has proved to be surprisingly good. Technological development is thus accelerating for semiconductors. When it comes to IT and technology development in a broader perspective, there are several theories that try to illustrate this. What unites them all is that development is exponential, just like for semiconductors. Madam President, I would like In February 2016, the Riksdag of the Government announced that the Government should review the provisions on protective objects in order to improve the protection of certain military protection purposes and, if necessary, return to the Riksdag with proposals for improvements. Today, over three and a half years later, we are standing here in the speaker's chair debating the government's proposals for action. It is in itself a good thing that all parties are behind the proposal for a very important strengthening of the legislation. Unfortunately, it is clear that we need to get a more forward-looking order. The fact that we have to wait almost four years before we can move from words to deeds is not a long way off. The reason why many laws need to be kept under constant review is that technological developments are accelerating and that our legislation is not taking heights for this. Technological developments create opportunities for completely new products and services that we could not even imagine before. Moore's law predicts that semiconductors will be twice as good every two years. This means that, while this matter is being prepared, our computers have become almost four times faster. At the same time, our processing times seem to be getting longer and longer. This is a development that is not sustainable. In the areas of the Committee on Defence, it is particularly sensitive because much is about Sweden's security. Above all, the threat has worsened and the threats have changed and become increasingly about cyber attacks and how we face them. A few weeks ago I visited Finland and got the following description of the differences between our respective countries. In Finland, it is somewhat simplistic to reach 80 per cent accuracy in a first step when legislating, and then to adjust afterwards. This will also help to capture unforeseen consequences and to adjust them. The benefits are that the legislative process is faster and that new situations can be dealt with more effectively. In Sweden, we always want to reach 100%, no matter how long it takes. Then we are rather reluctant to revise the legislation, probably because it takes so long. As far as legislation dealing with technical issues is concerned, this approach becomes rather blunt given the speed with which technological progress is progressing. If it takes four years from thought to legislation, the technology you try to regulate will have evolved into something completely different. In other words, the legislation is supposed to be out of date even before it comes into force. Madam President, I would like That is why, in conclusion, I would really like to call on the government to be somewhat more forward-looking in its preparation processes. It simply does not hold that it takes as long as it does today.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-83	Madam President, I would like The Committee on Defence is today debating the FU2 report on protective objects and unmanned vehicles. In this report, there has been agreement between the parties that legislation must be allowed to take a step forward when the security policy situation in our neighbourhood has, as is well known, taken a major step in the wrong direction. Developments in the technical field have been rapid, and new kinds of threats have been brought up to date. Technology that previously existed only with larger players is currently available in almost all Swedish homes. A good example of this is the development of unmanned vehicles, to some more familiar under the name drones. Today, any private person can acquire their own drone equipped with a relatively advanced camera for a not very high cost, something that was not possible just 15 years ago. Progress in this area and a number of other areas has been good for the Swedish Armed Forces, for example, but it has also given those actors who do not want us well new tools to use against us. The Swedish democrats see it as very positive that the possibility to intervene against unmanned vehicles is strengthened, not least because these are systems that can be used easily and cost-effectively in peacetime as well as in a twilight mode to obtain security-worthy information. In recent years we have been able to read about how observations of unknown drones were made during the Swedish Armed Forces' exercises, for example during the Aurora 17 exercise. As the Act is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2020, the Swedish Armed Forces will be given tools and legal support to act against foreign drones already during the armament exercise Aurora 20. A protected object is the name of what was previously separated under protected objects and protected areas. Protected objects can now include both buildings and larger areas. In addition to military buildings and installations, the legislation on protective objects will now also include civil security-worthy activities such as buildings, facilities and areas for postal management, alerting and food and other supplies vital to the functioning of society. The Swedish Security Act shall also apply to buildings and other facilities and areas managed by the Swedish Defence Research Institute. The Government also proposes that certain military vehicles should be able to be protected. It is also gratifying that ships used for the transport of nuclear materials are included, which is something that has been lacking for a long time. The possibility of taking decisions on other buildings with a bearing on total defence is also strengthened under increased preparedness. Over the years, the Swedish Democrats have pointed out that this is an area in which we need a legislative adjustment, and we therefore support the proposal.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-91	Madam President, I would like The issues of protective objects and unmanned vehicles that we are debating today are part of a wider whole in terms of reinforced defence. It is a small but important part, and it is very topical today. I will start with an example from my dear Gotland. It has not been so long since it was actually sold on northern Gotland a fully functioning submarine harbour to a foreign power. Finally, the Swedish Armed Forces managed to buy it back, as was well. Of course, it is not acceptable to have such a system that you can sell an entire submarine port to a foreign power. It was a lack of legislation that made it possible. That is why I am pleased with the changes we are now making. They also point out which activities should be able to become a protected object and show more clearly than before that socially important activities are worthy of protection. This is a welcome development. For too long, socially important activities in our country have been subject to under-regulation without strict functional and protective requirements. The marina is a clear example of this. Based on the worrying developments in our surrounding world and on the Swedish Defence Committee's assessment that an armed attack against Sweden cannot be excluded, it is a natural development to also strengthen the protection of socially important activities and functions. Sweden's total defence depends on the fact that social activities can be conducted in everyday life, crisis and war. Through a greater opportunity to do, for example, activities such as mail handling, alarming, food security and the supply of other supplies to protective objects, better conditions are provided for a functioning total defence in this country. That's exactly what we need. The fact that the law is updated and explicitly includes a ban on access to unmanned craft is also timely. We all know what technological developments have taken place with regard to drones and self-propelled vehicles. These are therefore welcome changes and steps in the right direction, although we in the Center Party believe that more needs to be done. There are not least all the proposals in the two reports of the Defence Committee, Resistance and Värnkraft, which set the direction forward for the development of both civil and military defence. Madam President, I would like Finally, it is now time for the government to translate Resistance and Värnkraft into a defence bill in accordance with the proposal of the preparation and in accordance with the parliamentary majority that exists on this issue. It is also high time to realise that these reports are being negotiated politically. These are documents that make up a whole, and there is a priority direction that the government and the Swedish Armed Forces should appropriately follow. You should not see the two documents as a picking list that you can choose and wreck from, but they are a whole and a pre-negotiated political document. Having said that, I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision on the issue of protective objects and unmanned vehicles.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-100	Madam President, I would like The Swedish nuclear power plants are located on the coast and have their own ports. Swedish Nuclear Fuel Management's ship M/S Sigrid transports the waste from there to the plants in Oskarshamn and Forsmark, where it is stored in between. In Sweden, almost all radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel are transported at sea. M/S Sigrid picks up the waste at the nuclear power plants and drives it to the Oskarshamn and Forsmark plants. A small amount of low- and medium-active waste is also transported from the research facility Studsvik. The ship Sigrid is specially designed for the transport of radioactive materials. The ship was built in 2011 – 2013 and is classified according to the highest level of the International Maritime Organization, INF 3, for ships transporting radioactive materials. Sigrid is equipped with additional communication equipment and has many safety-enhancing functions. For example, important systems are duplicated and separated to contribute to high operational availability and flexibility. Madam President, I would like It is important that the transport of spent nuclear fuel can take place as safely as possible. The M/S Sigrid nuclear fuel vessel is not classified as a protective object as other nuclear installations. For this reason, I and a Member of Sanne have previously exercised that Lennström Sigrid can be classified as a protective object and subject to the Swedish Act of Protection. This is also something that the local security board of my municipality of Oskarshamn has proposed. The municipality of Östhammar has stressed the importance of resolving this issue in such a way that transport through the municipality can take place as safely as possible. These two municipalities, our municipalities, take a great responsibility for the nation's energy supply, and it is of the utmost importance that the parliament and government heed their wishes in terms of security legislation. The transport of nuclear fuel often takes place within the limits of the geographical responsibility of the municipality concerned. Madam President, I would like SKB has also expressed the wish that the ship carrying nuclear material or spent nuclear fuel should be regarded as a protective object as well as the fixed installations involved in the transport operations, in order to ensure that the transport operations are also protected more robustly than the precautionary measures and safeguards covered by the Nuclear Technology Act. The Radiation Safety Authority, SSM, also makes the assessment that it would be positive for nuclear safety if today's requirements for the licence holder were supplemented by the power to take the necessary safeguards. SSM's assessment is that a consistent protection of the entire process, including transport, is important for the security of electricity supply. Their assessment is that, in addition to the importance of a functioning electricity supply, nuclear activities have high safety values. This applies in particular to the safe operation of the reactors but also to the safe management of the irradiated nuclear fuel, including the removal of spent nuclear fuel. Since M/S Sigrid is a specially designed vessel that cannot easily be replaced, the SSM considers that it should also not be left out of the safeguards, mainly guarding measures, that apply to other parts of the nuclear supply. SSM considers that the design of the Nuclear Technology Act is not appropriate to regulate specific protection against antagonistic threats, such as the use of coercive measures. Madam President, I would like It is therefore very positive that the government has listened to Sanne, to me and to all the others who have expressed the importance of M/S Sigrid being covered by the Safeguards Act and that, contrary to the Committee, the Government believes that the Safeguards Act should be extended to allow decisions on protective objects for ships used for the transport of nuclear material. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would also like to support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-110	Madam President, I would like Today, the Riksdag will take a position on new conditions for public service – for Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio, UR. It will not sound like that in the debate, but there is broad support for the policy laid down today. That's good. There is a point in trying to reach broad agreements on media policy. Although the debate in the media has recently put forward a number of proposals that radically change media policy, I hope that we will be able to continue the tradition of broad agreements in Parliament. It would be unfortunate if major changes in media policy were to take place with small majorities in Parliament. Madam President, I would like One of mankind's most important gifts is our ability to tell. We learn things through stories. We transfer knowledge and news to each other through stories. We create fellowship in stories. We find meaning and context in stories. We have an almost existential need to find meaning, context and stories in what we see. We even see connections where there is no connection but only random variation. And once we have seen a connection or a story, we find it very difficult to forget it and to see something different. But then suddenly something else comes, an alternative perspective on the same basic story. Maybe we're listening, maybe we're not listening. But if we listen, we may broaden our own understanding a little and see the new perspective. To have power over stories and how people view reality, understand their reality and perceive their reality is real power. You can be fooled with stories. You can take power over other people's thoughts through stories. That power can be obtained by speaking at the highest, speaking most often or being most relevant and credible. It is no wonder that authoritarian politicians around the world are trying to take control of the media and culture. If you have control over stories, it is easier to control what perspectives can be seen, and it is easier to control people's thoughts about society as a whole. That is why media policy is so important. That is why media pluralism is important. That is why it is crucial to see that there are different perspectives and different angles and that these get to speak. This is why media literacy and the ability to assess sources are becoming increasingly important. That is why broad political solutions to media policy are also important. Madam President, I would like Media society is like an ecology that one should see as a whole, not part and part. That is why we Liberals are critical that the government does not take a holistic approach to media policy. Today we are debating public service, the conditions for SVT, SR and UR. In doing so, however, it must also be taken into account that politics has an impact on other media. There is a need for a holistic approach to media policy. The media ecology consists of different players who are competitors but who also complement each other. They are interdependent, but they are also mutual competitors. Changing the conditions for a media actor will inevitably also affect the conditions of other media players, sometimes positive and sometimes negative. If you restrict Sweden's television's opportunities to be seen and heard, it can mean that Alingsås Tidning will have more readers, but it can also mean that we will get more white spots in Sweden and that the void created will be filled up by global actors. It is an ongoing struggle for our attention, Madam President, and it looks different from what it did just a few years ago. We are in a time of globalisation and digitalisation that redraws the map for us. In many ways this development is positive. We get more perspectives. We're getting more diversity. Accessibility is increasing. Speed's increasing. Diversity is increasing. But as with all shifts, there are also negative sides and problems. Old business models don't last anymore. The idea that the newspapers would be carried by advertisements and subscribers is, of course, challenged by the digital presence. The need for critical approaches is increasing. And, of course, the difficulty of focusing on the flow of information means that we need to think about the ability to look critically and think about what is true, relevant and important – to mention just a few challenges. That is why the government should take a concerted approach to media policy and have an overall idea of what it wants with media policy. Instead, we now see how to patch and fix, and that is troubling. It would be reasonable to manage fees, conditions, content and constitutional protection for public service in a single process. This process, in turn, should be put into a wider media policy context with a media policy idea and policy for the whole. And this must be put in the next step in a policy that also deals with the dominance of global giants. Madam President, I would like Independent public service media with a broad mission, broad support and a high level of trust are important for democracy. They must be objective and impartial. It should strive for quality and relevance regardless of genre. But, of course, such a broad mission can also create problems. Other media that depend, for example, on revenue from advertisements and subscribers may lose out on this. If SVT, SR and UR are very present and successful, they can naturally impair the market for other players. It is particularly important to see this right now when business models are being challenged and new ones have not yet taken place. That is why it is important to strike the balance that we are now taking with regard to the prior examination. On the other hand, all media are actually winners of the fact that there are good and high quality media that captures many people's interests and makes many take part in the media and high quality media. It is not certain that Swedish media houses' toughest competitor is another Swedish media house – it may not even be a media house at all. In the draft battle for our attention, it is also quite other actors who are involved. It is often global actors with resources that Swedish media houses and Swedish media cannot match. That's a reality you have to take in. If TV4 does not retain its popularity, it is not certain that SVT will gain from it. If SVT does not retain its popularity, it is not certain that TV3 will benefit from it. O m Rix FM does not keep its grip on the audience, it is not certain that any other Swedish player will gain from it. We must take this into account in our analysis. The conditions are completely different now. It's not the 1990s anymore. Nevertheless, the political debate sometimes sounds as if we were still in the 1990s. Madam President, I would like Although the Liberals agree with the main thrust of this proposal, we have a number of objections in substance. It is a question of the government not taking sufficient account of the whole. And it is a question of not taking into account the greatly changed consumption of media by young people and children. It is a good thing that the committee is now giving the government a back lesson on the preliminary examination. It is unreasonable for the government to have the last word when public service broadcasters want to start a new service. We also have questions about the objectives of media policy because, Madam President, today it is stated that the objective of media policy is to support freedom of expression, diversity, independence and accessibility of the mass media and to counter harmful media influences. They are good and reasonable goals, and they should remain. However, they must also be combined with a new goal of a clearer individual and citizen perspective. Media policy must have a goal of helping to make more people curious, knowledgeable and able to draw independent conclusions and make informed decisions of their own. This perspective is currently lacking in the media policy objectives, and the Liberals want it. Media policy should help each and every one of us to learn more stories, more perspectives, more angles and that in this way we also gain a better understanding of our present and our own life. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 4.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-127	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5 on objectivity and impartiality. Free media are fundamental in a democracy and in a free and open society. We Moderates defend a robust constitutional protection of freedom of expression, of the press and of the rules of the game in general, which guarantees the independence of the media and enables diversity and competition. The central task of media policy is to create the conditions for a wide range of media that can operate independently at different levels and in different formats. Safeguarding diversity is an important moderate starting point for discussion and reform work in the area of media policy. Another starting point for us is that high-quality public services have a very important role to play in the future. It is about being able to reach the entire population with information. Public service is an important part of our civilian preparedness. Furthermore, high-quality public service is a kind of democratic infrastructure – a public space that provides information and discussion to all citizens. Our view is that public services play a democratic role, but at the same time we safeguard media pluralism. Therefore, the tasks of state broadcasters must be clearly targeted and limited in scope. A well-functioning media pluralism can only be achieved with fair and clear rules and a balance between the state companies that operate and the independent commercial media sector. Here is a political observation that we must pay attention to the fact that this balance is not disrupted. That is also fundamental to our reservations. In the bill, it is possible to read the following: a media policy policy that creates long-term and stable conditions for market actors – – is required by the Government. ..................................................... That is an excellent ambition. But why does this wisdom not permeate the bill in all its parts? I dare to say that we in this House will hear from all parties an agreement on the importance of media pluralism. But how this balance can be maintained is lacking in all parts. The Government proposes that the system of ex ante verification be maintained during the forthcoming permit period, but that some changes be made. We welcome the fact that certain changes are being made. However, we also believe that we need to be able to extend this ex ante test, both from the point of view of competition and from the point of view of state aid. The fact that no ex ante verification has been carried out since its introduction is very unsatisfactory and an indication that the system is not working. The fact that the government is now proposing that other than broadcasters be allowed to report services for trial is great, and we welcome that. However, limiting the scope of the test to new services in supplementary activities is unacceptable. In the broadcasting licence, the government should require that new permanent programme services or other services of greater importance in the context of both core activities and the complementary activities that broadcasters wish to launch continue to be notified. Madam President, I would like Today, I am pleased to say, there is a majority in parliament in order to change the pre-examination process so that the government does not make the ultimate decision. Our opinion is clear. In order not to upset the balance of media pluralism, an extended and more transparent ex-ante evaluation must be carried out. It is positive and entirely in the right direction that the government proposes that other than broadcasters be allowed to report services for review. But twelve months is too long, and we believe that six months is the reasonable period. That is also what the investigation suggested. Madam President, I would like The policy should not decide on the programmes to be produced in SVT, SR and UR, nor on the content of the programmes. Arm length must always apply. The need to protect the public service's publicist independence is undisputed and important. Nobody wants government-controlled journalism. We see examples of this in the world, and it really is something that we do not want in Sweden. The integrity and independence of journalists in public services must be safeguarded, as must the ability of public service providers to operate under predictable conditions through reasonable authorisation periods. At the same time, public service is a constitutional activity, financed through the state, i.e. through taxpayers, and governed by conditions laid down by parliament and government. In other words, it is democratically legitimate and a prerequisite that politics defines the mission and decides on rules of the game regarding corporate governance, media ethics, etc. We supported the public service fee which, since 1 January this year, has been a tax financing of public services. However, we have repeatedly criticised the fact that the transition to a new financing model should have been preceded by a proper investigation and review of the public service mission. But the government ignored this, and now the decisions came in the wrong order. Impartiality, objectivity and legitimacy are an absolute requirement for public service. In times of fake news and disinformation, an objective public service has a major role to play, while the opposite, insubstantial and biased state media, does not belong in a democracy. Therefore, scrutiny and transparency are of the utmost importance. Madam President, I would like It is urgent that a new media ethics system is put in place. It is the media industry itself that has raised an interesting proposal for a voluntary and self-regulatory system through the appointment of a public media ombudsman and a media ethics board. We believe that the government should state that broadcasters should be subject to a media ethics review and that it is up to the parties in the industry to agree on how such a system should be designed. However, the companies' focus, management with resources, quality work and transparency are of general interest and should, as in all other activities financed by tax funds, be closely monitored and taken responsibility for by the boards of directors. But the Riksdag must be able to evaluate non-publicist activities, not least through its own institutions such as the National Audit Office. It is a critical question of how this whole governance and follow-up regime should be designed forward. Madam President, I would like Finally, I believe that the government in the new broadcasting licence has fixed the situation, that is, it is a patchwork of old media policy with very few new forward-looking elements. Hence all 24 reservations. For the next broadcasting permit, Sweden needs a media policy for the longer horizon in a media landscape that is changing at a very high rate. For our part, we Moderates will develop a long-term policy for a new media era.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-146	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the bill, and I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 on the rejection of the bill. Even before the start of the investigation, the Swedish Democrats were critical of the investigation directives. Among other things, we would not investigate all aspects of public service. It's strange when a growing crowd with critical voices against the very existence of public service is still roaring and rising outside the Ministry of Culture. Today we hear almost daily critical voices, and at the department you seem to be on the wrong foot. At least it certifies the bill. Madam President, I would like To be honest, there are no major changes proposed in the bill. There are no changes that adapt public services to the current media landscape and the current debate climate. For, quite frankly, the greatest threat to public service today is the critical voices and the questioning of its inquisitiveness and independence. What will happen to those voices? What happens to the growing group that does not know confidence in today's single company that should stand for objectivity, independence and impartiality? Anyone who was critical of public service years ago wants to close it today. It has become more critical in its rhetoric, and we see a more polarised debate. Today it is raised on the eyebrows of those who want to close public service, but that someone is critical and thinks that public service does bad TV or radio is something I read about every week and barely react to anymore. This is heard among opinion leaders and journalists as well as friends. The development has gone incredibly fast from opinion and public service is left twisted and I want to shut it down. It's getting easier to find out the facts. At the same time, it is just as easy that fake news spreads. In the media landscape we are living in today, with rapid changes, public services should be stronger. But from the political point of view, the seriousness of the criticism does not seem to be understood. I am really concerned about the developments we are seeing today. Is Amanda Lind too? What I have just mentioned is one of the reasons for our reservation 1 on the rejection of the bill. We have explained in previous debates why we could not support the first proposal on the form of financing. We simply believe that we have started at the wrong end. Taxpayers buy the pig in the sack without being guaranteed changes. It is not right today, and it was not right at the time either. Another investigation that we believe should start with its work immediately is that of preparedness and security, on which we also have a reservation. The government states that the switchover from terrestrial television to other means of distribution will be investigated until 2027. However, we believe that this investigation should be initiated as soon as possible and that there should be an opportunity to discuss the possible content of such an investigation for several years before a decision is taken. Technology progress is fast, furiously fast. Security concerns us and national security. Given the world in which we live, should we risk that the population will not be informed in the event of a crisis? How does public service ensure that web portals can be accessed if Sweden is under attack? Madam President, I would like I am of the opinion that our qualities develop through experience and lessons and not by external attributes. I happen to be born who I am, and I get to make the best of the situation. However, the government seems to disagree – that is how I read their proposals on the chapter on the content of broadcasts. It wants to place greater emphasis on highlighting perspectives from the point of view of ethnicity or sexual orientation. It is highly doubtful whether this type of action will broaden the climate of debate and reporting. On the contrary, this view is out of date, and I am critical of placing such emphasis on this in the broadcasting licence. Madam President, I would like A joint reservation by us, the Moderates and the KD is contained in the report. In it we write that we want to strengthen objectivity and independence, and such a reservation cannot be felt more topical than today. If you do not support it, I assume that you are satisfied with what it looks like today. We Swedish democrats have raised this issue several times. For us, it is the foundation and pillar of the house. If it cracks, are the walls still standing? I mean we're there now, and we'll see if the walls are wearing in the coming years when the new broadcasting license is in place. The Swedish Democrats have long raised several reform proposals to remedy the problems we see. Among other things, we propose a public service company, because it seems reasonable to want to keep three separate companies that will focus on different areas – one on image, one on sound and one on public education. What is a moving picture today, and what is text? It may seem too philosophical for a parliamentary debate, but it is actually quite specific questions that I usually ask the companies. In today's media landscape, it is more logical to have a single public service company, given the progress of technology and how it looks in Europe. We also propose a review function worthy of the name. Today we have a review board that can only review errors based on broadcasting permits. We want to see increased transparency at the audit stage and an increased dialogue with the notifier. Corrections should be published more clearly and be more easily accessible. A Council will be set up to highlight and correct factual errors before, for example, a factual programme is displayed. Not least, as a reporter, you must feel that you have an understanding of the whole process. Among other things, the fact that you cannot report whole parts, such as what is on the internet, is a problem today. We propose a body for the examination of the facts. Timbro's SVT and SR report shows that there is a discrepancy between what the public perceives as the task of the Audit Board, to examine, for example, the objectivity of programmes that have been sent, and the Audit Board's interpretation of its mission. The Board of Auditors believes that it is not their task to cross-check the facts on their own. At the same time, broadcasters often use the work of the Audit Board as proof that broadcasters live up to their task of objectivity. It is clear that due process must be put in place. We want to see increased Nordic cooperation. Today there is already a Nordic cooperation between the companies, and we want to deepen it. The basis for this is that we believe that Sweden has a lot to learn from its Nordic neighbours, not least in how it has reported on migration and environmental issues. We also want a new investigation into modernising the public service system, Madam President – an investigation that begins where the last one ended. We would have liked the systems of the Audit Board and the merger of the companies to be reviewed in particular. These are our requests when the investigation directives for the next investigation are written, even if it is several years until then. Madam President, I would like There's one thing I can't let go of when it comes to the bill. At the time of the investigation, all parties had reservations about the question of ex ante testing – all parties. None of us were satisfied with the design of the system, although we all had different formulations. Despite objections in the investigation, Amanda Lind chooses not to change the structure of the system, but is content to change two small details: the length of the probationary period of the services and who should be allowed to report. None of the proposals ensures that power is transferred from Amanda Lind, that is, politics, and the public service companies. My party and I have been repeatedly accused of wanting to regulate the media in detail and, above all, public services. Time and again, we have proved that this is nothing more than false accusations. My analysis of why this is believed is probably that we have several reform proposals – or that there are no other arguments. My question to the Minister for Culture is simple: why does the government choose not to go ahead with major amendments but only for a new investigation to review the ex ante testing system? Instead of tackling the problem, you choose to postpone it. Why? And does this not seem to us to be a problem? These are questions which I hope will be answered in the Minister's speech. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-164	Madam President, I would like I have two questions for Angelika Bengtsson. One is about the description of reality that Angelika Bengtsson gives, with a growing number of people who are critical, with more critical voices that are heard and with more complainers, more who want to lay down public service and more who question its credibility. I noted that this whole part of the speech was held in third person. Is this a criticism that Angelika Bengtsson personally and the Swedish Democrats as a party agree with? Is it so that Angelika Bengtsson and the Swedish Democrats agree with the criticism that Angelika Bengtsson made in the third person, i.e. that you do not think that the public service companies are credible, that you are thinking about whether to close them and so on? My second question concerns the connection between rhetoric and the proposals. In reservation 1 from the Swedish Democrats, it says that they want major reforms and a policy that differs widely from the policy currently being pursued. Anyone who looks further at the concrete proposals sees that this is about a new investigation and perhaps merging the companies, but if the new, large company is going to do the same thing as the other three did before, it is not a huge change. You can really question whether it is reasonable to have a body that controls objectivity, but it is not a huge change if you see it in a big perspective. Moving faster to hd quality is not a big change either. My question is really: what is the plan in the long term? What is the public service in Sweden's Democratic Sweden? What is the long-term plan and long-term version for the public service companies and for public services in Sweden? It cannot, of course, just be these fancy proposals that you think of when you say that you want a policy that is far apart from today's and that you want to see really big reforms.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-170	Madam President, I would like I will try to answer as best I can during these minutes. As far as the description of reality is concerned, I am a little surprised that this is being criticised, or that I am being asked about it. It cannot be news to anyone in this House that critical voices have increased, that more are openly critical of public service and that more are openly critical of whether – or perhaps that – public service is left-wing. The criticism I make of public service can be read about in our policy. That is why we have several reform proposals – precisely to go back to fact and independence and to ensure that public services are strong. I think that public service should be – and is – part of our democracy. We are going to have public service, and this is not something that I or my party have questioned. Doesn't Christer Nylander think you have to listen to the critical voices? Should you just ignore those who are critical? Is Christer Nylander satisfied with today's public service? When it comes to rhetoric and the fact that we have proposals for major reforms, it actually surprises me that no more parties do. Given the rapid media development we have and given the way the companies look in our Nordic and European neighbours, it surprises me that no more people want to go after what it looks like, not least in our Nordic neighbours. As I said, we want to go back to the fact that public service really stands for objectivity and that you feel that it is an independent public service that you see. This is the criticism I hear, and it is this criticism that many voters – both from my party and from several other parties – are addressing. It frightens me that more people do not know confidence in the company they should have confidence in, which actually examines me and us in this House, not least.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-176	Madam President, I would like That's my question. It's an old rhetorical trick to say someone else thinks something. My question was: Do Angelika Bengtsson and the Swedish Democrats feel trust in the public service companies? Do Angelika Bengtsson and the Swedish Democrats feel that the public service companies are fulfilling their mission? Can you trust them? Are they credible? Are they impartial, or are they left-wing? Should they be closed? It does not work to say that there is some general, diffuse opinion somewhere and then refer to it because you want to make changes. You have to have an opinion on the matter yourself. Does Angelika Bengtsson agree with the image she gives of public opinion? Or does she agree with another picture that can be seen, namely that there is still a great deal of trust among the public and among the Swedish people? This is also a picture you can see. If you choose to look at the stacks from that perspective, a lot more people have confidence in public service than do not. Should you also listen to that part of the population? What do the Swedish Democrats think? It is clear that we need to adapt the activities of public service broadcasters to digitalisation and globalisation; I talked about this in my own speech. But what is the long-term version? The long-term version from the Swedish Democrats can not only be that one should have a new investigation, that one should have a new review body and that one should merge three companies into one. There must be something else you want. If you believe that reality has changed as strongly as Angelika Bengtsson said in his speech – if you believe that there needs to be a completely different public service policy from the one being conducted today and that major reforms are needed and if you want to see something far apart from what exists today and from what other parties want – you must explain what is far apart from what we have today. What are these major reforms?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-182	Madam President, I would like I suggest that Christer Nylander read our committee session on public service. I assume he's read it, but it's good to read it again. There we clearly explain our policy on public service – the subject we are talking about today. If you have read our committee motion, you know what our policy is on this issue. Christer Nylander talked about confidence figures. This is true: Public services continue to have high levels of confidence, not least when compared with other media companies. That's good; that's how it should be. But we also see that they are declining, not least among Swedish democrats, Moderates and KD voters. That's a problem. It is a problem when a growing crowd in society does not know trust in a media company – in public service – in public service. You should have confidence in public service. Isn't this a problem? We live in an increasingly polarized world. Alternative media are growing, and some feel more confidence in alternative media than in public service. Although there is a small crowd, there are such people today, and that worries me. In short, Madam President, it feels like Christer Nylander wants to ascribe to me opinions I do not have. I will put no more emphasis on this than to say: Read our public service exercise! There our policy is very clear.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-187	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I support all the reservations expressed by the Centre Party, but I choose to ask for the approval of reservation 7 only. An independent public service is important for maintaining our country's democracy. In order for us to have a functioning democracy, we who live in the country need to be committed and involved, not least in order to monitor and follow what decision-makers in different positions decide and to be able to influence the decisions. But in order to be involved, you also need to be informed. Then we need both public service and commercial media side by side. A prerequisite for us to have a living democracy is therefore that there is access to independent media with the resources, opportunities and skills to produce and demonstrate investigative journalism. Public service has a special role in this media landscape – a role that includes being an independent player with great integrity and being independent of political governance and commercial interests. This is obviously a balancing process and a task that is constantly being tested and evaluated. Through public service, an independent media company that reviews power and society, democracy is protected for the benefit of all who live here. At the same time, public service offers opportunities for different groups in our society to take part in their own history and culture. It is an opportunity to create both knowledge and understanding of their own history and situation and at the same time the opportunity to increase the knowledge and understanding of others in our society. However, a broad public service mission is central to ensuring that the offer remains relevant to many people in Sweden. The broad mission of public services is a prerequisite for continuing to be relevant in our society and in the fast moving media landscape. The culture and entertainment that the public service companies produce and convey gives a broad picture of our society. Public service also plays a role in the reflection of the whole country. It is needed, once again side by side with the private players, to provide a variety of perspectives. In fact, when you take part of the public service broadcasters' programmes on their own platforms, you will also be reminded of what you can learn more about the rest of the offer. This could be a social programme that you would otherwise have missed, a news broadcast or a cultural expression that you would not otherwise have come into contact with. The broad remit of public services is therefore a prerequisite for its continued relevance in our society and in the fast moving media landscape. Madam President, I would like The educational radio, UR, with its unique mission to educate and form an important part of public service. I am thinking not least of the range of programmes aimed at children and young people. In an educationalally exciting way of working and with an investigative and innovative methodology, stimulating interest and curiosity for new knowledge is incredibly important to reach the intended audience. This is something that also characterizes the children's programmes at both Swedish Television and Swedish Radio. At the same time, the media landscape as well as technology are constantly evolving and have undergone in recent years something that must be described as a revolution. Access to public service content no longer takes place solely through a fixed television set in the household or with a radio set via the FM network, where the programme table determines which programme you can access at which time of day. No, you take part of public service content in many different ways, and it is today more individualised than before. You use your mobile phone, tablet or computer, and you choose when and where to take part of the offer. You are no longer bound by a program tableau when you are going to take part of the program or element you are interested in. This, of course, places new demands both on the public service broadcasters and on the terms and guidelines for the authorisation period that will take place. Among other things, it is a question of how broadcasters should be able to credit their online offer for children and young people in a more flexible way, for it is noted that children and young people are increasingly less involved in the media offering in the order that the tableau offers. Their consumption of the media is constantly changing and faster than the rest of us, and they are faster at taking on new technologies. This also means that media consumption takes place more and more on demand, which places new demands on media companies to reach this target group. For the public service companies, it will then be important to meet children and young people on the platforms where they are located, not least in order to fulfil the mission to be relevant and a democratic utility for that group too. That is why I think it is reasonable for the parts that affect children and young people to place greater emphasis on digitality when deciding how to carry out the task for this particular group. Just having terrestrial transmissions in focus in order to fulfil the mission in relation to children and young people is ignoring how the group actually consumes the media today. Madam President, I would like Public service companies have an important role to play in crisis situations. Therefore, the emergency mission itself becomes an important task for the companies. However, in order to look more clearly at how this emergency response mission should look like and be carried out, and also how responsibility should be shared both between the companies and between authorities, the government should set up an investigation into this. It should also be investigated how the collaboration between the companies and the responsible authorities should be carried out. The need to draw up concrete plans for the public service companies' total defence tasks was also highlighted by the Defence Committee. It pointed to the need to practice how the operation should function in the event of the highest level of preparedness. There is also a need to review how the regulatory framework affects the public service companies' ability to perform their tasks in total defence. Madam President, I would like The independence of public services, while operating in a media market where other commercial operators also operate, places great demands on broadcasters as well as on the conditions for their activities. The Government's proposal that the ex ante review system should be maintained during the next authorisation period but that some changes to the system need to be made agrees with the Center Party. In this context, however, the fact that the government is today the body that has to decide on the ex ante review should be reviewed. The independence of public services from political influence is important and should also be established as regards the ex ante verification. That is why, in our opinion, the system should be different, that the government is not involved in decision-making on the specific pre-trial review. It is therefore a good thing that all the parties in the Committee on Culture are now proposing an announcement to the government, which means that an investigation should be set up as soon as possible to review the possibilities for a system of ex-ante review in which the government is not the last instance. Madam President, I would like Earlier in my speech, I have pointed out that it is important to have a breadth in the Swedish media offering, a breadth where commercial media companies are also needed side by side with the public service companies. A continued broad public service mission is central to the continued relevance of the offer to many people in Sweden, as I said earlier. But we are living in a time of increasingly differentiated media supply and with newspapers under great economic pressure. At the same time, the public service media SVT, SR and Utbildningsradion are financed via a public service fee. According to the broadcasting licence, the public service media should be characterized by public education ambitions. However, the fact that the use of own produced material is mainly limited to their own channels also limits these ambitions and opportunities. In order to gain increased use of the public and other media of the public service material produced by Swedish Radio, Swedish Television and Education Radio, a change in their openness and accessibility is needed. Therefore, the government, which I urge in my reservation, should review the conditions for public service broadcasters to make their journalistic public service material available for free use as far as possible. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by making it clear that an independent public service is important for our country's democracy. Even if you do not actively participate in the content of public services, it actually serves a purpose for you and for the society you live in, for your opportunity and right to live in a democracy where freedom of expression is protected. For the rest, Madam President, I believe that all Swedish public services, including online, should be made available to the Åland Islands.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-207	Madam President, I would like Free, independent and independent media are an important cornerstone of our democracy. They are part of the construction of a stable democracy. In Sweden there is a very long tradition of freedom of print and expression, and today's media landscape contains a wide variety of private and jointly owned television and radio channels and newspapers. Today we are debating the terms and conditions of Swedish Television, Swedish Radio and Education Radio, which we all call public service. From the Left Party we see that they play an extremely important role in our society. It is through the companies' broad mission that the population is guaranteed, among other things, impartial social information, educational programmes, news, entertainment and cultural experiences. The independence of journalism from politics is absolutely fundamental. On the other hand, the representatives of the people here in Parliament may periodically establish a framework for the broadcasters, on the one hand, with conditions for the direction of their activities and on the other hand, for financing. These are therefore very important issues to be debated and decided on here today. Madam President, I would like It is with increasing concern that I have followed the internal debate in the right-wing parties of Parliament, and I note that this may be the last period of conditionality that we can agree widely on the role and design of public services. The changes proposed for 2020 – 2025 are minimal compared to the proposals from KD, M and SD that have been heard in the debate in recent months. These are proposals that should be taken seriously when presented by large party districts, youth federations and party leaders, and taken up at meetings and country meetings. For M and KD, it is a focus on narrower supply, with which, of course, there will be a slimmed-down budget. The party secretaries of the Christian Democrats say that the party wants to get rid of the krimkramset and lists examples of programs they do not like. I think it is a very dangerous direction if we start to point out individual programmes from a political point of view that we want or do not want. The new focus of the Moderates, to be investigated in the future, is more sponsorship and reduced revenues from the public. Even that's a dangerous way to go. Being advertising-free and independent of commercial interests are some of the cornerstones of public service in Sweden. As far as the discussion of objectivity and impartiality is concerned, I am content to state that we as political representatives are opinion-makers who are able to influence the views of our sympathizers to a large extent. If we have great confidence in the public service broadcasters in this House, it is important that we say this and that our actions do not undermine the legitimacy of SVT, SR and UR. The Left Party wants a broad public service radio and television with a range that allows those who want to do without commercial channels and expensive subscriptions and yet access to information, entertainment and education. This breadth was agreed by the eight parties of the Riksdag in the parliamentary committee that laid the foundations for the proposal that is now on the table of the Riksdag. But since then it has unfortunately started to blow other winds. Of course, narrower programming means that public service risks losing an audience. There are clear examples from other countries that public service then becomes a matter for a very small part of the population. I believe that the point of public service is thereby lost. Public services are now financed by a tax, and all parties agreed that this was justified because it was a public good that has a democratic value for society as a whole. That's what the bill said. Then there should also be something for everyone in the program offering. The mix of programs attracts all kinds of viewers, and there is a great chance that viewers find programs they didn't know they wanted to see and that they then learn new things completely unplanned and become curious about new phenomena. Madam President, I would like I release my concern for future developments for a moment and will instead highlight the direction of the Left Party for the proposals that lie at the table of the Riksdag today. In a very short time, technological developments have affected how we share news, radio and television. This has led to new business models, new ways of working and financial pressures for both public services and private operators. There are therefore many reasons for fundamentally reviewing the public service guidelines. The Left Party regrets that too much in this review has focused on the competitive situation between public service and private commercial media. In this treatment, public service seems to draw the shortest straw. A clear example of how contradictory it can be is when broadcasters are tasked with strengthening their journalistic coverage in weakly guarded areas and reflecting the whole country but at the same time taking into account the competitive conditions of qualitative news media to promote a diversity of perspectives in a viable media market. This will be a very difficult balance for SVT and SR in particular. Is it expected to understand the economic situation of all local newspapers in order to determine whether they are able to cope with competition or not? Could the result be to stay away from a little larger places where there is already coverage from, for example, a local newspaper and only report from rural and small towns? Is this really in line with a public service mission? In addition to being difficult to understand, these new assignments are also based on an opinion that lacks foundation in research: that the presence of public services is a threat to commercial media. Rather, international research shows that countries with strong public services get a population that is more familiar and more interested in social issues and politics. This leads to a greater demand for information from different media. That is why the Left Party has reserved itself against this proposal. We believe that work on new conditions should rather aim to sharpen public service and focus on ensuring that broadcasters have the best possible conditions to keep up with digitalisation and create high-quality programmes that can reach the entire population. To achieve this, one also needs to very much direct one's own direction. The Left Party believes that the pre-trial system runs counter to it. The system means that new programme services or other major changes to services that the public service companies want to launch must be notified to the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency for review and then given approval by the Government. What is to be tested is the market impact of the service and its contribution to fulfilling the public service mission. Today it is the broadcasters themselves who report services for review. The government is now proposing that anyone should be able to do so. Madam President, I would like I believe that this proposal is very problematic and a threat to the independence of broadcasters. I am concerned that the theoretical boundary between reviewing content and form is not so clear in practice. If you are to consider whether a service is competing, you must of course look at the content of the service, and if you are to decide whether it involves a significant change in the current range, you must of course also look at the content of the service. Of course there will be a review of content. Whether or not broadcasters are given hindsight in the trials does not matter, but what is important in principle is that competitors are clearly involved in influencing the work of public services through the ex ante evaluation instrument and that it is then the government that decides. That is very unfortunate. The Constitutional Committee has on two occasions assessed that the ex-ante examination in its current form is not contrary to the fundamental law of freedom of expression. On both occasions, the fact that the services can only be notified by the public service broadcasters themselves has been highlighted as a factor in its feasibility. What has changed ts since the bourgeois government and the KU made this assessment is not clear from the bill. We believe that there is a lack of a proper impact assessment of the impact of the proposed new conditions on, for example, freedom of establishment and the principle of prohibition of restrictive measures. I believe that the principles of the Freedom of Expression Act should weigh more heavily in this case. The independence of public service needs to be strengthened rather than challenged with a new ex ante evaluation system. The Left Party will continue to work to strengthen both private operators and public service broadcasters and not to pit them against each other. We believe it is extremely important that we have many independent votes and good local journalism throughout the country, and we are prepared to ensure that both funding and conditions are adapted to that task. Madam President, I would like Another concession to the private media companies is the suggestion that the focus for public service should be on moving images and sounds and no longer on text. I would like to raise a finger of caution because this can affect accessibility. We see an increasing number of media companies becoming multimedia and using TV, podcast and text about every other. It is then natural that public services should also be given some room to follow this development. It is incredibly important that the focus on sound and image does not create obstacles to making software content accessible to people with disabilities in the best way and with the latest technology. If we are serious about everyone being able to participate in the public conversation, then the disabled must also be able to take part in, for example, key debate programmes, news and educational programmes. Madam President, I would like Public service has an important role when it comes to preserving and revitalizing the Swedish minority languages. The Left Party believes that the companies should have individual assignments for minority languages. It does not make sense for certain minority groups to be referred mainly to radio and others mainly to television broadcasts. With targeted assignments to each company, we would have clarity and greater work on the issue. We think it is positive that the government is proposing that broadcasters work towards closer dialogue with minority language representatives, but we also want targeted missions. Madam President, I would like In order for public service to fulfil its mission, it requires good and long-term funding, high legitimacy of the Swedish people and independence from government, politicians and industry. That is what we have expressed in our motion and in our reservations. Madam President, I would like I support all our reservations, but I choose to highlight reservation 10 on the pre-test.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-240	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Vasiliki, for the many thoughtful things you said! What I was thinking specifically was that we had a reservation about reducing the advertising available in public service in the form of sponsorship. In SVT you can see signs from sponsor companies in the background. This is clearly regulated – it is about 20 times a year, i.e. per opportunity. It can be many times in the same broadcast. For example, in the Winter Studio you can see it in the background. Since the Left Party is clear that there should not be advertising in public service, my question is this: then perhaps it would have been a good time for you to agree to our reservation that there should be a review of sponsorship and the number of times it appears in public service. I have not heard anything about this. I have read and I now heard that the Left Party is very concerned that the Moderates want to introduce advertising in public service. No, it's not like that. However, we will look at this widely for several years and develop a long-term media policy. Among other things, we will look at a sacred cow as advertising funding. If you are to have a broad grant to develop a new media policy, it is not possible to have certain sacred cows left, but everything needs to be lifted up. The whole media landscape looks completely different and changes from one day to the next. I would like some answers to my questions about advertising and sponsorship in public service.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-245	Madam President, I would like I think it is great that this issue can be clarified. I have had a hard time understanding the direction of the Moderates, Lotta Finstorp. Having read your reservation and listened to what you said earlier in committee, I understand that you want to limit sponsorship. In statements from your party secretary and what came up at your meeting, there is talk of increased sponsorship in order to reduce fee revenues. I haven't really been able to put together what the Moderates want, but it's very sprawling. That is why I tried to talk in my speech about what you want now and what you want then. This is what you're trying to sort out in your exercise. I think the Swedish people have also had a bit of a hard time keeping up with the turns. The reason why we currently accept certain sponsorships in relation to sports broadcasts is that it is terribly expensive to obtain broadcasting permits for major sporting events. We believe that it is national affairs that the whole population can take part in major championships – it is about the World Cup, the Olympic Games and that type of broadcast. It is part of our common culture that we can take part in important international struggles together, and then you have to choose which of the two principles you have to weigh the most. For us it has been more important at this point to get to the sports broadcasts than to get rid of the sponsorship. As Lotta Finstorp said, it is very limited. There are clear guidelines on how brands may be displayed. We have been critical of when, for example, gaming companies can be seen; we find that questionable. There is much in this that is difficult. I am the first to admit, but I find it a little more difficult with the doubts I see in the Moderates. Would Lotta Finstorp like to find out how the Moderates get the completely different pictures together?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-249	Madam President, I would like This is an excellent opportunity to sort this out. It is about our working group, which will develop Moderates' new media policy, where we should look at it, among other things. Normally when conducting investigations in parliamentary form, there are directives in some of these investigations that are quite broad, and that is exactly how it is for us too. There are such elements in other countries, and we want to see if it is something for Sweden. I cannot anticipate this, but it is certainly not a proposal from the Moderates that we should have advertising-funded public service. That's one of a lot of things we're gonna look at. Madam President, I would like I wish all parties could take a serious approach to this media policy issue, which is extremely important for Sweden. It is not possible to continue patching and repairing in order to develop new broadcasting permits for a certain number of years, but here one needs to raise one's eye and look at the major global players in order to develop a clear media policy that extends over time, as far as it is possible to deal with this in the future. I am more concerned about the fact that other parties are not in the forefront of a good policy, so that when we enter the next transmission state, we then have a broad policy from each party, which we will then knead together to find a broad solution. I thank you very much for giving me this opportunity to explain Moderate media policy.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-254	Madam President, I would like I think that is an important principle. In fact, we had this discussion about how to look at the funding when we had the previous bill up. At this point, we have proposed that we increase funding for the companies. We propose that we commit ourselves to an increase of almost 4% for the next conditionality period, while the remaining parties have settled at 2%. If you are prepared to follow our lead, you could reduce sponsorship because there will be more revenue. But in the end, it is the companies that assess how much money they should spend on, for example, major sporting events and how they want to allocate their resources. We see that the public service companies have a broad mission, and we want it to continue to be so. We see that it requires greater funding. I think that, with the work of the committee, we have taken a great deal of action within our party. I regret that several of Parliament's parties, including the Moderates, come a little late into the game. Now we have two parallel discussions. We have an agreement on this conditionality period, up to 2025, but it is already beginning to be rooted in the foundations. Before we even beat today's decision, there will be a lot of questioning. That is what I wanted to highlight in my speech.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-257	Madam President, I would like The Liberals and the Left Party agree that public services should have good conditions. I would like to ask a question: is it not important to take some account of other actors and be very careful? I noted that Vasiliki Tsouplaki said that the local newspapers should be protected. At the same time, there is a risk that public services will grow and that they will not do what is stated in the bill, i.e. thinking about how their own activities affect, for example, local newspapers or, for that matter, TV4 or other media actors who do not have the funding of public services and who depend on advertising revenues and subscribers. I should like to admit that this is a very difficult issue. It's a pretty fragile ecology. On the one hand, it will be strange if P4's local radio is not to tell you that a school inside the city is on fire, but on the other hand, it is clear that if SVT or SR tells things they have read in a newspaper, the current and interest in reading newspapers and thus the solution of newspaper funding in the form of subscriptions and advertising revenue in the long term will decrease. This is certainly not a simple problem, and that is why we in the Liberals think that the public service broadcasters need to have a strategy for this – a clear and transparent strategy for how local actors should be managed in order not to disturb the market unnecessarily. Then the Left Party can say that the state can only give more support to the free and market-dependent operators instead. After all, however, it would have been nice if Sweden still had some media actors who are not dependent on government grants. Does the Left Party agree with that assessment?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-261	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Christer Nylander, for the questions! I think it is absolutely important that we have a structure that does not pit companies against each other and that all important voices should be heard. It is not our idea that the public service broadcasters should dominate and knock out local actors. What I was trying to show is that we want a diversity of perspectives and a diversity of actors. The question is how best to do this and how to ensure that the public gets the news and information they may need. There are other occasions than when it comes to the conditions under which the issue can be regulated, and I think Christer Nylander himself raised this in his speech. It is not public service that is the big problem and the big challenger for the private companies, but it is the advertising revenue that has ended up with the global giants. I think Christer Nylander made this very clear in his speech. It is therefore not public service that has gone in and knocked away the bones of the private operators. On the other hand, we must realise that many of the private media houses have concerns. There are growing groups, less local surveillance and a monopoly position for a few companies. Many editorial teams are cutting back, and you are not able to carry out the good journalism that you would like. But that is what we should address in media policy as a whole. We are going to look at the issues of pre-support and media support, and we are going to look at other parts that do not specifically apply to public service conditions. I think the whole idea is based on a wrong foundation. As I mentioned, there is nothing to suggest that a strong public service poses a threat. Rather, people who are well informed and interested get an interest in searching for information in several places.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-265	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely certain that if more people are interested in news and to take part of it, everyone will benefit from this – both the public service companies, the newspapers that are around the country and the private media houses. At the same time, many media players are currently living on the margins. And at the margin it is obvious that if you don't have to go into a payment site for a newspaper, don't have to look at advertising-funded activities or don't have to subscribe to something that exists in a Swedish media house also reduces revenue. The large bulk of revenue that has disappeared has gone down into the pockets of the global giants; there is something that I agree with Vasiliki Tsouplaki that we must take very seriously and deal with. At the same time, however, as I have said, many people are currently living on the margins, and then a left-wing policy that does not require public service will take into account the local market conditions to risk ending more. I am therefore of the opinion that we will definitely need to strengthen media support and ensure that more pressure is supported in order to survive. But it would also be very nice if the market in the short term, but perhaps even better in the long term, could carry more players and even more players than one. This is the concern of Left Party politics. The only solution cannot, of course, be that the other actors should also receive state subsidies. We also need to think about how media pluralism can be reflected and borne by diversity in funding. Not everything can be financed through government contributions to media houses, but we also need completely independent actors carried by the market and carried by subscribers. It is at this margin that there is a great risk of undermining this ability with the Left Party public service policy.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-269	Madam President, I would like I strongly believe that consideration should be given to all stakeholders, and I think that we have seen examples of this in recent years. Locally there has been a dialogue between the public service and the local newsrooms, they have shared material and they have become more able to tell who has published something first. There are good examples, where, among other things, the choice platform has been shared with information. It has been able to use local newspapers to report on the elections. There are many examples of how to work together and how to conduct a good dialogue locally and show consideration. What I find problematic about the wording today is that the economic conditions of competitors should be taken into account. I can't really see how to make that assessment. Should you sit and read the annual reports? Should you think about how much they lose in revenue – 100,000 or 200,000, or what? It's like a business situation that I don't think is worthy of public service missions. This is not what you should sit and make assessments of, but you should focus on good local journalism, on supporting each other and on having a good exchange locally. I think it will be very difficult to sit and do these considerations while having the second mission: to reflect the whole country and to be in weakly guarded areas. I see that there will be a conflict between the various objectives and missions we provide public service, and I think it is important that we problematise this and realise that it will be difficult. As far as the question of the need for state aid is concerned, this is not the case. Several players are doing well. Digital subscriptions are increasing in many ways, so we should not say that there is lament and misery in all media houses today. That's not the case. Some people are doing very well. Above all, the desire to subscribe digitally has increased, but we must also remember that not everyone can afford it. That is why public service is needed.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-274	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to welcome Minister of Culture Amanda Lind to the debate. It's great that you're here and that we'll hear you eventually. It is not always the ministers are here, so it perhaps shows the weight of the public service debate. I agree with all the Christian Democratic reservations, but for time to come, I only call for reservation No 5 on objectivity and impartiality. The mission carried out by Swedish Radio, Swedish Television and Education Radio is important and fundamental to our democracy and our open society. The Christian Democrats are in favour of an independent public service which, through its mission, can offer independent and objective news media, objective scrutiny and a wide range of cultural services. Public service, i.e. Swedish Radio, SVT and UR, is discussed around Sweden, not primarily as a triumvirate of companies but more in terms of content – and especially when it comes to SVT. But also the form of financing where a fee is paid through the tax bill is discussed. It has been an educational task to explain how the new funding is designed: that the public service fee should be paid by all over 18 years of age who have a taxable income and that the fee is 1 percent of the income up to a ceiling, at most about SEK 1,350 per person per year. This can therefore be about SEK 600 – 700 per year for those with lower income or no contribution at all for persons without earned income. We Christian Democrats stand up for public service, including in terms of funding, but in our follow-up motion we highlight some important principles that I will try to explain here. The funding model gives public service a special position in the media area in Sweden. It creates an interesting and challenging tension between the public service and the commercial companies, such as the private Bonnier-owned TV4 or the foreign-owned TV3 and TV5. The public service companies receive approximately 8 1⁄2 billion each year from the Swedish people. TV4 has almost the same turnover through advertising revenues. We know that commercial companies today deliver quality in most areas. But I do not think that they would do, for example, children's programmes without advertising directly aimed at children. We support the announcement on ex ante testing of new programmes. The announcement is – for the uninitiated – a decision in which the Riksdag communicates its opinion to the Government. What we in the Committee on Culture are particularly opposed to is that the government should be a final body to decide whether programmes for which a trial period is allowed to continue. It may pose a risk of political governance. We agree in committee on this announcement. The upcoming transmission period 2020-2025 will continue as before. However, things are happening during the broadcasting period in terms of, for example, ex-ante testing and the recurrent debate on objectivity and independence. In a time of fake news, public service has an important role in conveying accurate information that is not politically controlled. Now I have lived for a while and have perspectives even on previous decades. There was a time when the left-wing movement dominated not only the social climate but also Sweden's television. When TV2 started in 1969 at a time of strong left wind, the Journalist College was dusted on people with left ties. The Social Democratic Government looked at it with enthusiasm at first, but after a while it was realised that it was a misappropriation that was even worse than it had wanted. Then it must be said that business and other more bourgeois movements did not wake up in time. But the fact that public service has been left-wing has long hung like a red curtain over the companies. Madam President, I would like We are on the important issue of objectivity and impartiality. We have a reservation stating that it is central to public confidence in public services that content meets requirements for objectivity and impartiality and that these requirements can be monitored and reviewed. One of the fundamental prerequisites of public services, Madam President, is independence from political and commercial influence. In spite of this, there is a derogation for Swedish Television that sponsorship may take place at 20 events per year. This is justified by SVT being able to broadcast, for example, attractive sporting events that require sponsorship. Of course, it is good that sporting events are offered to public service viewers and listeners, and 20 sponsored events per year may seem reasonable. But in reality it means much more. Each event may contain a larger number of individual broadcasts. We want the sponsorship to SVT to be limited and only in exceptional cases. We believe that this is important in order to further strengthen confidence in the independence of public services so that it is free from commercial influence and, furthermore, does not create an imbalance in competition between public services and commercial companies. Madam President, I would like The Broadcasting Act requires that those who offer TV broadcasting in different forms should design the service in such a way that it becomes accessible to people with different types of disabilities. We Christian Democrats would like to stress that it is urgent that the requirements for accessibility be brought into line with technological developments, which have introduced new forms of distribution at a rapid pace in addition to traditional terrestrial broadcasting. We will monitor the work on the constitutional changes necessary to regulate supply in different distribution platforms. Madam President, I would like The media world is developing at a rapid pace. We Christian Democrats support public service. In a changing world, we need an objective, independent and impartial public service, as it is said, which through its mission gives us news both nationally and regionally, social information, in-depth reviews, public education and a wide range of cultural services.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-291	Madam President, I would like In 1998, the Parliament decided on the groundbreaking home-pc reform. Swedes had access to computers at home, and the knowledge of the general public increased. Today, 20 years later, Sweden is ranked as one of the world's most digitised countries. 98 per cent of all Swedes over the age of 12 have access to the Internet. The share of the population with a smartphone is over 90 per cent, and over 70 per cent have at least one tablet at home. These 20 years of digitalisation, technology development and globalisation have fundamentally changed our society. The development affects higher education institutions, jobs, social institutions, our security and defence capabilities, communication and public services – but also our everyday life and our leisure time. The area most affected by globalisation and digitalisation is the media market and media consumption. Although consumption itself has remained stable over time, the content of consumption has changed, as well as the platforms on which media is accessed. And then I haven't even mentioned the transition in the media market – the amount of media players, the growing market share of global network companies and the risk they pose against domestic, Swedish media companies. Madam President, I would like The parliamentary and cross-party inquiry into the role of public services in the new media landscape began in an in-depth analysis of the possibilities of digitalisation and globalisation, but also their consequences. The investigation came to light and concluded that the media landscape continues to face major changes that will not stop. Technology development means that fewer and fewer Swedes buy TVs, which made the previous license funding watered down. Today, news is simply shared through phones or tablets. And what technology we will be using in just a few years' time is impossible for us to know. Digitisation allows very few people today to adapt to tabulated radio and television programmes. Nowadays, software content is being sought through play services, video-sharing platforms, podcast radio and music services. The Streaming Services Netflix and HBO have taken a significant share of the consumption of moving images, generating economic muscles that domestic operators can hardly match. And globalisation is currently breaking out advertising revenues and advertising funding from our domestic Swedish media companies, which has affected the already inadequate local surveillance and funding of quality journalism. I am concerned, Madam President, that we will soon also see a clear class segmentation in media consumption. Those who can afford will choose streaming without advertising, and those who can't afford will mainly watch advertising TV and Youtube. All of this really shows how important it is for public services to exist where consumers are and are independent from both political and commercial influences. Interestingly, the investigation concluded that public services must be available on digital platforms on the internet and that companies must continue to be free from commercial influence and should therefore not be allowed to broadcast advertising. Madam President, I would like It is important that we media and cultural politicians address these complex issues for the future. If you do that, you will soon realise that the historical market competition between public service broadcasters and the Swedish commercial media companies today is being challenged by completely new conditions. The question is now really about how we strengthen Swedish media and cultural production at a time when globalisation is at risk of destroying it as a whole. It should also be added that the latest research from Nordicom and Stavanger University shows that there is no evidence that public service undermines commercial operators. On the contrary, both media consumption and media confidence are higher in markets where public services exist. Madam President, I would like In this continuing changing media landscape, the democratic role of public services is further updated. This is of particular importance for a small language and cultural country like Sweden. We need public broadcasting that delivers high-quality public information, independent and objective news media, in-depth and objective scrutiny, as well as a high-quality cultural and educational offer. I would like to stress that we need to strengthen the cultural mission of public service broadcasters, which has been so strongly criticised by Moderates and Christian Democrats in recent times. If this mission is now to be curtailed, I believe that the media and cultural offering is at risk of being lost. Netflix and Spotify will hardly acquire the Swedish cultural heritage and access to Swedish media archives or strengthen Swedish and Nordic film and television production. The central task of public service must be to offer a diverse range of programmes that are accessible to all, which reflect our country and which are characterised by good quality, comprehensiveness and relevance. We Social Democrats believe that a well-functioning media market is based on a combination of responsible commercial media and a strong and independent public service with high public confidence. In order to strengthen and achieve more effective regulation of public services, we propose new additional assignments for this permit period. We want to:
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-308	The companies must be credited a certain proportion of the business on the internet The companies in the news business shall take into account the competitive conditions of qualitative news media New services of greater importance, which involve substantial changes to existing services in the context of complementary activities, should now be examined. The companies will strengthen their journalistic surveillance in weakly guarded areas Sweden's Television and Swedish Radio will, as they now do, be part of the Swedish total defence. We believe that it is important that the broadcasting licence continues to include a broad content assignment, a mirror assignment, that the companies contribute to a viable production market throughout the country and that the cultural mission is deepened. The committee has also allowed the Constitutional Committee and the Defence Committee to comment on the proposal. The Constitutional Committee has come into a substantially different view from what the Left Party presented here in the speaker's chair. It is said that the preliminary examination does not conflict with the provisions of the Freedom of Expression Basic Law on the prohibition of censorship, obstruction of measures, editorial independence or freedom of establishment, as the proposal clarifies that it is not a question of the content of the programmes but that the examination should focus on new technologies and methods. With regard to the mission of preparedness, the Committee on Defence considers that it is central to the country's overall defence efforts, including psychological defence, that governments and authorities can inform the media and the public on current issues. However, the committee does not believe that there is a need for further investigations into the companies' response missions linked to distribution. We are therefore presenting today a deeply grounded bill that has broad support in the Swedish parliament where the democratic mission and independence are clarified. On behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, we are also sending a united initiative to the government that the government should not be the final body for the preliminary examination, which the government must immediately take the initiative to investigate. In addition, in order to strengthen the role of public services, a constitutional investigation is under way, as has been mentioned here in the speaker's chair. The basic law investigation will make proposals on how public services can be constitutionally protected and how we ensure the review of the programme activities on the internet. In conclusion, although I am in danger of exceeding my speaking time, Madam President, I would like to comment on some of the previous speakers' speeches here from the speaker's seat. As far as I am aware, throughout the parliamentary inquiry and the delivery of the final report, the Moderates have maintained that public services play an essential role in democracy as an independent media serving the public. I note that the Moderates, through Olof Lavesson, wrote less than a year ago that public service should be independent of political and commercial influence and that the companies should therefore not be allowed to broadcast advertising. It also wrote that public services should be available on social media and the internet because that is where the media consumers are. I note that in just a few weeks there has been a trend that is essentially different. We now want to explore the possibility of advertising funding. This report seeks to narrow the scope of the mission and limit its activities online. I wonder, of course, curiously what has happened and what it is that makes you take this kind of new initiative when, during the investigation, clarification has supported what all the parties in Parliament have done in the investigation. As far as the Christian Democrats are concerned, I believe that no one has missed the party secretary's speech in Dagens Nyheter. In the investigation, Christian Democrats' representatives highlight the importance of the public service companies' cultural and educational missions for cohesion and democracy. Now the cultural offering is called krimkrams, and it will also end with the reason that we now have Spotify and Netflix. I wonder why the Christian Democrats, who usually speak warmly about Swedish values, Swedish culture and Swedish cultural heritage, have now suddenly landed in the fact that Swedish cultural production and folk education for the media companies and public service are completely unimportant. I note that less than a year ago, when the investigation proposal was presented, a broad agreement had been reached in Parliament. We have landed in negotiations with the other parties in the conclusions contained in the proposal on which we are to decide today. We Social Democrats have defended an extended core mission and accepted the demands of the bourgeois parties for the introduction of a prior examination. But I am a little perplexed, although we are now all behind this bill, how to deal with broad agreements and objectively based investigations in the future if the parties with which we work on these issues in just a few weeks can change direction and content. As far as the Swedish Democrats are concerned, I actually had a debate this morning against Aron Emilsson, where he noted that SD has a broad battery of proposals for essentially different public service governance. However, like Christer Nylander, I note that this report actually only proposes merging the companies and having a modern mode of distribution and parallel broadcasting of television channels. It is clear whether it represents a broad change in public service – or that one attacks so hard a raging confidence that does not exist according to the SOM Institute's measurements that actually show that Sweden's Television is among the media companies across the Nordic region that have the highest confidence in the general public. Madam President, I would like The globalisation and digitalisation of the media market will continue at an aggressive pace. I am therefore absolutely convinced that the importance of independent media will therefore grow. Having said that, we Social Democrats support the proposal and call for all reservations to be rejected.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-328	Madam President, I would like You get a little surprised when you hear a wise person like Lawen Redar stand and fumble around our politics. It indicates a tone deafness and a willingness to find lines of conflict as far as possible. I want to read from our exercise. Here's how we like the cultural mission: and culture and self-production in Swedish is also part of the core mission as well as other important areas of society where commercial media will not work. ..................................................... I hope that's clear enough. What I heard was that Lawen Redar said we want to remove the cultural mission. I don't understand where it came from at all, and I read just before from our exercise. The same thing was also glued to the Christian Democrats, and Roland Utbolt will certainly mention that. I have some questions for Lawen Redar. Do the Social Democrats believe that Sweden should have a diversity of media that is viable and exists throughout the country? If the answer is yes – that is the answer I hear from all parties – I wonder in what way this proposal supports that objective. I have given a lot of thought to the fact that if criticism of the independence of public services never comes from the government parties and the Left Party – could it be assumed that there is actually something to do with people experiencing public services that are not completely independent?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-333	Madam President, I would like Let me make it clear that I have not said at all in the speaker's chair that the Moderates want to remove the cultural mission. I have not mentioned that at all. I have the text before me. I have said that it is a question of the statements made by the Party Secretary of the Moderates, which deal with advertising as a means of raising money for public service and of narrowing the scope of the mission. My corresponding question is, of course, about: In what way does one want to narrow the mission? What on the mission is it that the Moderates continue to want to narrow? Maybe it's the cultural mission. I wonder curiously. Then there is the question of the relationship between public service and commercial media companies. In fact, we are now moving forward with a proposal clarifying two important elements. The first is that the public service broadcasters should devote themselves to their core mission. If it is Sweden's Television, it is about images, and if it is radio, it is about radio activities, that is to say, we clarify that the textual activities that have been going on within the framework of public service should actually be transferred to the commercial companies and newspapers and not developed by the public service companies themselves. We have also seen this in connection with the investigation. It has been self-critical of this development. The second thing we can say is that we are now introducing a preliminary examination. It means that heavier services, which are not provided within the core mission, may also be tested if it affects market shares. We believe that in this way we can create a viable media production with both commercial operators and public service.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-337	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to respond to what was also heard from the speakers that we do not want to approve activities on the Internet or anything like that. It's included in the reservation in the investigation. It says that there is a problem when you are going to credit that activity because it is not possible to review it on the basis of the constitution. I want it to be said. I did not get an answer to my question about media pluralism. I'll turn it a little bit. It is included in the bill that public service should strengthen its presence in weakly guarded areas in Sweden and take into account other qualitative news coverage. Vasiliki Tsouplaki also raised this question in his speech. In addition, competition and the opportunities offered by media pluralism should be taken into account by looking at it as well. It is not clear in the bill how concrete this consideration should be taken into account. I am thinking of the media support for local media that is now increasing because they need more support. What does the Social Democrats think about this? Depending on how this is to be taken into account, in concrete terms, it can be assumed that media support will cost more.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-340	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp raises a very central question. It is about how we will strengthen the excluded funding of commercial media players because advertising revenue has shifted to global players. The state has therefore stepped in with, among other things, media support. In this way, far too many newspapers have unfortunately made themselves completely dependent on state aid. But otherwise we would have risked a situation in which we do not have local and commercial media in many of the country's areas. The government and politics have had to step in. We have not done so with much enthusiasm, but precisely because media policy is a foundation of our democracy. We must therefore take that responsibility. With regard to this broadcasting licence, we have clarified that a review of new services of major importance and substantial changes to existing services in the context of the complementary activities of broadcasters should be carried out. The ex ante evaluation is one way of ensuring and clarifying the balance between public service and commercial operators. The second thing we put in is what Lotta Finstorp also points out: that the public service companies in the news business should How this is to be done, we must oblige the public service companies to take special responsibility for. But it's stuck in this state of transmission. They will have to tell themselves how they have succeeded in the mission. Of course, we will also listen to the commercial companies when it comes to the progress of this task in the broadcasting licence.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-344	Madam President, I would like It is important that we are correct and factual here. The Christian Democrats even have a reservation on that. I don't think Lawen Redar really stuck to that when she said that the Christian Democrats should limit the cultural offer. We never said that. It's annoying when you turn it on. There's gonna be some fake news all over it. What we have said is that public service should focus on the core areas. That's what's important. That means news. It is about minority groups' opportunities to access news, other social information and so on. That's the part we want to strengthen. That is also what we have mentioned in the media. It's good if we can stick to what's right here.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-347	Madam President, I would like What is correct in this is that the Christian Democrats have some reservations about the current state of broadcasting. But they do not refer to what the party secretaries of the Christian Democrats have gone out with today. Let me clarify, so that we do not land in any kind of fake news or what the discussion might be termed. It is quite right that the conditions for this permit period have been accepted with the few reservations of the Christian Democrats. But my question back to Roland Utbolt is: Why does the Party Secretary of the Christian Democrats go out in a debate article in Dagens Nyheter and say that certain parts of the public service's cultural missions can be described as krimkrams and that Netflix and Spotify can take over some of its activities, and therefore should the mission be limited? That's my question. And what does that mean for the next transmission period?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-350	Madam President, I would like The reason we're going out with this in the media is because we're going to have national action in a couple of weeks. Let's debate public service. As everyone who is involved in party politics knows, there are a number of motions on the subject. Some people want to abolish the entire public service. You get to say whatever you want in that exercise. But what we're going to decide for, we won't know for a couple of weeks. We have raised this as a discussion in our party and with others who want to participate. I'm a little surprised that Lawen Redar wants to be a part of the debate on our policy in this way. What we are debating and discussing in our party and which has spread are precisely the core areas, this with news, social information and so on. In fact, I do not think that this is excessive governance. Today, public services are already democratically governed, and the focus is laid down in broadcasting permits. It is therefore not unreasonable to dictate, as we do, that the core areas should be strengthened. I would like to defend my party secretary in this regard. We do not think that is unreasonable. Public service is now democratically governed by the missions that we give in the broadcasting permits.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-353	Madam President, I would like Of course, I wish Roland Utbolt, who is a great friend of public service, great luck at the Christian Democrats' party meeting. In particular, Roland Utbolt sees the value of Swedish media and cultural production within the framework of public service. In relation to the movements that will probably turn up, I really hope that the voice listens to what Roland Utbolt has to say. The governance of public servic es software content is probably extremely sensitive to me and my party. If you're going to start dictating what's left, you have to dictate what's going to go away. This balance is far too far-reaching in terms of the public service broadcasters' own missions and ways of reaching out to the general public. It takes a profession. It requires knowledge of how public service should be relevant and create the enormous credibility that they currently have. I believe that the direction that media policy should continue to take is to strengthen domestic actors, whether they are commercial or public service, but not in detail. We will provide them with long-term and reasonable conditions for carrying out that mission.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-356	Madam President, I would like I understand that Lawen Redar and I share in many respects the view on public services and cultural policy as a whole. However, on the question of pre-trial testing, we have slightly different opinions here today. I'm saying here today, because we didn't have that before. Then we had the same opinion as to how the pre-test should be carried out. That is why I choose to request a reply today. Mr Redar highlights my speech in which I spoke about the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. The opinion I referred to was the one that was made during the previous introduction of the ex-ante examination model. At the time, the Social Democrats were very critical of making the changes that are being proposed today. The Social Democrats and also the Green Party were then clear in their opinion from the Constitutional Committee that they were able to approve the preliminary tests from the point of view of the Freedom of Expression Act because it was the companies themselves and no one else who would report new services. The companies would decide whether or not something should be examined. This was the reason why the KU and the bourgeois government at that time said that the pre-test model could accept s. The way I see it, nothing has changed in substance ever since. My thinking is therefore: why have the Social Democrats changed their position since the Committee's work and the last reading in the Constitutional Committee? What has really changed? Lawen Redar mentions that it is about looking at techniques and methods, not content. I see that this will be very difficult to do. What is behind the criticism of the model are precisely content issues. I'll get back to you a little bit more on that in my next line.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-361	Madam President, I would like What Vasiliki Tsouplaki points out is true. The Social Democrats are and have been opposed to the prior examination. Of course, we have completely different parliamentary conditions today, and we have been keen to safeguard a broad agreement in the media policy hands-on approach to public service. There are three reasons why we believe that the ex ante verification can be accepted. The first is that we know that there is an EU directive that requires Sweden to introduce a prior examination. The second is the broad agreement on media policy that we think serves the long-term media conditions, which is important. The third relates to the fact that the design of the pre-test procedure is significantly different from that described in the investigation itself. We have expanded the core mission, as Vasiliki Tsouplaki knows. As a result, the part of the ex-ante evaluation that is being updated relates only to new services of major importance or substantial changes to existing activities in the context of the complementary activity. We have felt confident about this conclusion. We have also noted that the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Agency, as well as the KU, have certified that there is no risk with a content assessment. That is also one reason why we have come to this conclusion. We believe that it is important for commercial operators to have a good dialogue with public service broadcasters and that they have it in those areas where there are competitive conditions.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-368	Madam President, I would like If you look a little closer at the previous criticism of new services in public service, you can see that it has been about, for example, that you think that some of the music channels on Sweden's radio play too much pop music. It is clear that it has been about content criticism, not that you have a play app where you can play the pop music, but you have looked at the content. There have been criticisms of SVT News's news app. It is not the method or technique itself, that you have an app in your phone, as the criticism has been applied, but that it has been about news reporting in text form. It is this criticism that has led parties in this House to want to make demands for more actors and commercial media to report services for ex ante review. The whole thing is based on this very thing. That is why several of the bourgeois parties reserved themselves the last time the Constitutional Committee raised the issue. This is also what has pushed this change forward. It is very good that the government has made this enlargement. Fewer services can now come to mind for a trial. However, it is the very principle that other actors should take an interest in public service activities that we are critical of. We believe that it interferes with independence and goes against what the Freedom of Expression Act says. Our criticism is about the principle. I find it very difficult to see that you can look at techniques and methods and assess competitive conditions vis-à-vis private operators if you do not also look at what the services contain and offer. We are not talking about technology companies, but about media companies to measure competition against. This is our objection, and I had hoped that the Social Democrats would also stick to it.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-373	Madam President, I would like It will probably be that those who report these services because of their content will be surprised that their trials are not progressing. The press, radio and television authorities believe that the proposal clearly shows what it is really about, namely services of greater importance. This applies to new posts. These are also substantial changes to existing activities in the context of complementary activities. This is what includes what can affect the competitive environment in the media market, not the content mission. This is also the reason why we allow public service broadcasters to carry out the service for 12 months. The Press, Radio and Television Authority may then assess whether the notifications relate precisely to this and not to the content. Then you get to work on the actual pre-test process. We are therefore confident that both the Constitutional Committee and the Press, Radio and Television Authority have found that they do not see any obstacles with proposals like this. Nor do they see any risk of it becoming a substantive test. We will probably see in practice that all those who report some form of content will be extremely disappointed, because the issue does not concern it.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-376	Madam President, I would like How do we shape our picture of reality? Where are we looking for information? Is it in the morning paper at the breakfast table or on the phone on the way to work? Maybe via a link in social media, web radio or TV? Daily we are greeted with all sorts of messages and are surrounded by more information than ever before. Digitalisation and globalisation have transformed the media landscape. They have loosened the boundaries between traditional media forms and created fantastic opportunities to reach the audience. It has never been so easy for people to seek out what they are interested in, on the platforms and at the times they are interested in. For the entire media industry, this presents great opportunities and challenges, especially at local level. We are all aware of that. It is extremely important for democracy that all people, wherever in the country they live, have access to high-quality, comprehensive news media. In this way, each person can independently form an idea of society based on facts and knowledge. Public conversation requires common physical places and media open arenas where people from different parts of society, with different experiences and backgrounds, can meet and gain a greater understanding of each other and each other's opinions. We widen our filter bubble and become more curious about each other. It is clear that the media are crucial to keeping democracy alive. We in the Green Party believe that Sweden today has a working combination of a strong public service and a variety of viable private media. Our task is to create good conditions for this vibrant media market to continue to develop. It is of great importance for the three public service companies – Swedish Radio, Swedish Television and Education Radio – and for the public's confidence that there is a broad political consensus on the central mission of the business. A majority in the committee, as well as the study on which the proposal is based, want public service conditions to be adapted to a new digital media society and to take account of our changing media consumption. This is achieved by broadening the core business to include programme activities on our own platforms on the internet. The government does not want to restrict the use of external platforms by broadcasters, such as social media and global distribution platforms. It is important to be available where the audience is located, but there should always be an impact assessment on the independence of companies and public confidence. Madam President, I would like It is my absolute conviction that the importance of public service is greater than ever. As the polarisation and fragmentation of society increases, it is extremely important for democracy that we have professional media, journalistic scrutiny and media that have written in their mission to stand for impartiality and objectivity. I look with concern at what is happening in several European countries where governments are trying to take power over public service and influence direction. What happens at home also worries me. Both Moderates and Christian Democrats have recently begun to question the public service mission and its scope. If public services become too narrow, only those who are particularly interested in politics and society can be reached – in plain language: those who are resourceful. In order to reach wider, you need to have some popular programs that make people naturally seek a public service channel or app. Then you can also find content and choice that is more democratic central. Public service has a good balance between narrow and broad, and thus rightly retains its special position. The broad content assignment is fixed in the bill, precisely in order to attract as large a audience as possible. Reflecting the whole country and the diversity of the population is also important for both cohesion and democracy. As a viewer or listener in our elongated country, you should be able to recognize yourself and have a personal value. Madam President, I would like The democratic mission and the people's education mission go hand in hand. In today's information flow, accurate facts are mixed with advertising, political messages, hidden senders and algorithms. We must learn to analyse, interpret and assess what is true and reasonable and what is disinformation and propaganda. We need to learn how the media, platforms and networks work. Anyone who lacks the ability to distinguish true from false or unable to put information in the right context will find it more difficult to build solid knowledge. Public service has a responsibility to strengthen people's media and information literacy. The bill emphasises the special responsibility of the Educational Radio for producing educational and adult education programmes relating to media and information literacy. The education radio has the opportunity to overcome knowledge gaps and be an independent and credible source in a time of increased polarisation in society. Then we can build our democracy stronger. On behalf of the Green Party, I support the proposal and reject all reservations.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-387	Madam President, I would like For our democracy to function properly, a diversity of strong and independent media is needed throughout the country. All people, no matter where they live, should have access to a comprehensive range of journalism that can depict, deepen and explain events and events in our society, both here at home and in our surroundings. While we are now discussing public services in this House, there are wars and conflicts around the world. In the world's various trouble spots, abuse and oppression of people are taking place on a scale that we in Sweden can hardly even imagine. This is engaging us. We want to know what's going on. But we don't have to be there. There are those who are there in our place. Courageous journalists get to the trouble spots and tell the rest of the world what's going on. The rest of us read the paper, watch TV and listen to the radio. People with special knowledge explain and put events in context. Based on media reporting, we get an insight into the trouble spots and a help to understand what is happening. But, as you know, the first victim of war is often the truth. Propaganda and false news are spreading. There's a lot of uncertainty. Many have an interest in spreading false beliefs, mistrust and uncertainty. Dissemination of information becomes part of warfare. Madam President, I would like Is the conclusion, then, that we should lock ourselves in and stop listening? No. Sound source criticism and critical analytical thinking are not the same thing as blind mistrust of everything. Is the conclusion that we should have fewer media and fewer professional journalists? No, absolutely not. The conclusion is that independent journalism has never been more important. Madam President, I would like A well-functioning democracy requires that citizens have the opportunity to make informed decisions. It is about everyone having the opportunity, based on facts and knowledge, to form an idea of the world and the conditions under which we humans live. For this, the media in our society play an important role. But no single media can claim to be able alone to convey a comprehensive picture of reality with all its nuances and shifts. As is well known, the world is complex, and there will always have to be a selection of topics and perspectives. That is why media pluralism is so important. Public services and commercial media must be able to stand strong side by side. Research also shows that a strong public service combined with a viable commercial media market goes hand in hand with strong democracies. For the commercial media, the government has strengthened press and media support, reduced VAT on digital newspapers and created better conditions for commercial radio. It is an active and offensive media policy. But public service must also have good conditions, and that is what this bill is about. Public service must, based on its independence, have a modern regulation that goes in line with its time and enables a wide range that reflects the whole of Sweden and is where the audience today is located. Madam President, I would like The Parliamentary Public Service Committee noted that public service is a collective democratic utility that has a democratic value for society as a whole. This joint wording reflects the excellent work done by the Committee. In most parts, the Committee has managed to submit its proposals almost unanimously. I think it is very positive that it is possible to achieve broad participation in central media policy issues. It is an experience that hopefully can be managed for the future. The government's starting point is in line with the Committee's view that the broad content mandate should be established. A wide range of news, culture, educational programmes, children's programmes, entertainment, programmes for our national minorities and much more are central to the public service being a matter for everyone throughout our country. A fantastic selection does little good if people can't take part in it. The regulation we have today is created on the basis of the logic of the traditional way of watching television and listening to radio, a regulation based on people taking part in linear tableau broadcasts on the terrestrial network. However, it comes as no surprise to anyone – this has already been mentioned by several speakers in this House – that people today take advantage of the media supply in quite different ways: via mobile phones, tablets, computers and other web-connected equipment. It is on the internet-based platforms that the audience is increasing, and it is also largely where the young audience is located. Madam President, I would like There is reason to believe that this trend will continue at an ever - increasing rate. It is a fantastic development that provides completely new opportunities for people to access the range in the way that suits them. What we see emerging is a democratisation and an information revolution that we should of course make the best use of. Then we must have a public service regulation that goes along with its time. The bill therefore takes several important steps in this direction. The range available on the public service's own online platforms will be part of the activities that count as core business from 2020. This means that we are finally establishing that online public services play services are part of the basic mission. It strengthens the position of public services in the digital environment. But more needs to be done. In the long term, a completely technology-neutral regulation is needed, and a constitutional investigation looks at how it will be possible. The Government's ambition is that a more technology-neutral regulation that enables assignments and also follow-up in the online environment can be in place for the year 2023. Public services should also be able to communicate their offering on external platforms. But it must not happen without limit, and it must not happen without thought. Too expansive a distribution of the media supply is a risk that it could affect the independence of public services if it were to make itself too dependent on the global giant companies, which have no sense of responsibility whatsoever for democratic values that we, representatives of the parliament and government, have to manage. At the same time, there is an important democratic value in making the public service offering easily accessible to the audience where the audience is located. We now state that public services may use external platforms so that the audience can find their way to the offer. But it should be used with thought, and pure social media should be used with caution. Madam President, I would like A policy aimed at stimulating strong, responsible and independent media throughout the country also needs to take into account the balance of the media market. It is about creating the conditions for media pluralism throughout the country where public services can operate side by side with strong commercial media. Media development in recent years has brought major challenges to many of the country's newspapers, especially at local level. In an increasing number of places around the country, so - called white spots have emerged, areas that lack journalistic coverage in whole or in part. This is, in the long run, a serious problem of democracy. The bill therefore proposes that Swedish Radio and Swedish Television should strengthen their news coverage in weakly guarded areas, but that SR and SVT should also take responsibility for a variety of news media across the country so that they can be protected. Therefore, SR and SVT in their day-to-day operations will take more active account of the competitive conditions of commercial news media. Obviously, public service should not undermine the commercial viability of commercial media. But I want to make it clear that it goes both ways. The presence of public services also promotes journalism, strengthens the interest in news and stimulates quality development in journalism. More journalism breeds more journalism, and the diversity of different media strengthens journalism as an institution. Madam President, I would like The ex ante review system requires that new services of greater importance be notified for review on the basis of their compatibility with the public service mission and their impact on the media market. This system has been in place for ten years, yet no service has ever been notified for review. Now we are making some changes to the system to strengthen the legitimacy of the system. Firstly, operators other than public service broadcasters themselves will be able to report new services for review. Secondly, the scope of the review will be limited by exempting the core business of public service from review. This gives public service a great deal of room for manoeuvre, which hopefully can be well managed. It's a freedom under responsibility. At the same time, more stakeholders have a say in the question of whether public services are developing outside their framework and thus affecting the rest of the media market too much. One issue that has not yet been resolved is who is to take the final decision on whether to approve a new service of major importance during an ex ante examination. Today, as many here have pointed out, it is the government that, as in the past, takes this decision on the basis of the Authority's review. It is a system that is not optimal. The Government thus shares Parliament's view that this decision mandate needs to be moved. Where it's going is another open question. My ambition is crystal clear. There is no doubt that politics will remain at a proper distance from the activities of the media. We will have to come back to the matter. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear that the Government will urgently set up an investigation so that the matter can be resolved already during its term of office. Madam President, I would like An important starting point for the Committee's work and also for the Government has been the ambition to safeguard and strengthen the independence of public services. In broad agreement, the government and parliament have succeeded in achieving this in several steps. The independence of the Administrative Foundation has been strengthened. We have stable, sustainable funding. We have even longer broadcasting periods during which public services can operate in freedom. Safeguarding the independence of the media is crucial. We are living at a time when more and more people in power are trying to tame the media for their own policy purposes. In various ways, they try to tighten up the free speech and take control of the media. They are inciting the media and perhaps even individual journalists. It is a very important issue of democracy. If the media silences our democracy. In Sweden we are well equipped. Here, the media can report without the risk of reprisals from political leaders. There is a well-functioning freedom of the press, strong laws on press and freedom of expression and a culture in which the free word is highly respected. But neither are we vaccinated against a harsher climate. Threats to journalists are a reality. As a result, fear and self-censorship are at risk. Incitement and hatred of the media are also disguised as an alleged legitimate form of media criticism is a danger to the media as a democratic institution. The constant politically motivated sniper against the media is like small doses of arsenic. In time, they poison the social climate. As a consequence, confidence in the knowledge conveyed by the media risks being eroded. Truth and knowledge are in danger of being relativised and eroded. Madam President, I would like Any democratically-minded politician should respect the fact that journalists play an important role in our democracy. Any democratically-minded politician should remain too good to undermine the activities of journalists by smearing them. Every democratic politician must respect free speech and realise that it is the journalists who are examining power and not the other way round. The media are not the enemy of the nation or of the people. The media and free journalism are the close friends, companions and absolute prerequisites of democracy. Today we are making decisions on public service conditions for the coming years. Let us be confident that once we reach a decision, it means an effort for more independent journalism throughout the country. It is good for Sweden, and it is good for our democracy.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-418	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. We appreciate the Minister's participation in the debate. I hear that from all over here. The Minister referred to the pre-screening process. It is likely that there will be an announcement today to the government that the last decision-making body will not be the government. It is in the bill thoughts and doubts about the system in which the government has the ultimate decision-making power. It burns a little in the knots to get something else in place. What's the time perspective? What does the government think of this issue from that perspective? It is likely that an announcement will be adopted today. There are 24 reservations about the report. That in itself is interesting. It says quite a lot about that there are thoughts both forward and in the current situation. Much is about bias or impartiality, dependence and independent media, and so on, which is so extremely important. I have a question there. It is about public service being provided in weakly guarded areas in Sweden, which the Minister also mentioned. At the same time, high-quality news coverage from commercial media is to be protected. We are already seeing media support being eaten up. There's a big need out there. You can't manage your finances because advertising revenue has decreased, subscription revenues have decreased and so on. What does the Minister think about this? How can the balance be made? That question has come from both the right and the left in this House today. We do not really understand how this is to happen. Feel free to develop a little bit how you can imagine it in that case.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-425	Madam President, I would like To begin with the preliminary examination, which Lotta Finstorp highlighted, I mentioned in my speech that in the proposal we note that it is a problem if there may be a risk that it is somehow perceived as a political control of the content. That is not the purpose of the ex ante verification. In this respect, I and the Government intend to come back as soon as possible, so that we can, as a matter of urgency, also set up an investigation, get on the table the information that the previous work could not bring to light and as quickly as possible on this issue. I am pleased that it is a united Committee on Culture that has highlighted this. We agree on that. Basically, it is not strange that we are discussing these delicate media issues. However, I do not see that it is what public services do that is the basis for the major media policy discussion now being launched. It's a huge change in the media market right now. We see the major global distribution giants taking more space and advertising revenue, which is basically the big problem for the newspapers around the country. One lacks the opportunity to get as much into advertising revenue as before. Having said that, it is crucial to me that we have a balance in the media market. That is why the government has a very offensive media policy and has changed the media system. We have contributed money to the budget and increased media support for the commercial media. We must continue to follow these developments closely and ensure that, as we do in the bill, we safeguard a strong independent public service. We shall also ensure in various ways that we can have a viable commercial media market. Then I think it is reasonable that public services should also assume their responsibilities, as we stress in the bill.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-429	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important to keep that balance under constant control so that there is no list. Otherwise, when it comes to local media, the weakly guarded areas will lose further. I would like to use my second round to talk about credit transfer of business in thread. The companies can, of course, be credited to their own digital platforms in relation to their broadcasting permits. Today, under the Constitution, there is freedom of establishment and a ban on censorship. This means that the Constitution prevents the state from authorising broadcasters as well as reviewing the activities that take place online. What is the big problem is that one cannot examine what comes up with that activity. In the bill there are suggestions that one should be able to review the business in the thread, but what we say from moderate quarters is that we are waiting for a constitutional change. Until then, we don't want this to happen. Based on the fact that we are all talking about an independent public service, I wonder why the government considers it legitimate that certain activities should not be subject to scrutiny. On the basis of the decision that will be taken, not all activities will be able to be examined.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-433	Madam President, I would like Public service providers already have a range on the digital platforms. All operations shall be subject to review. That is precisely why we have a constitutional committee that is currently looking at how this can be regulated wisely and well. The Committee will come back with its proposal in the coming years. What we say in the bill is that in order to fulfill your mission, you should essentially fulfill it via the terrestrial network. Then you can also make a certain credit transfer of the extensive activity you have digitally. It is not unreasonable, but, as it is today, it places high demands on public service broadcasters that the ethical systems that they have in place for broadcasting on the terrestrial network and the programme activities there should, of course, also apply to what they place on the network. Again, we have to change this system, and that is exactly why we have an investigation looking at it.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-436	Madam President, I would like The whole committee, including the Minister for Culture's party partner here in the Riksdag, gives back homework on the preliminary examination. I mentioned it very much in my speech. The amendments proposed in the bill do not ensure that the government does not become the last instance of a prior examination. It is precisely this part that I would like to ask the Minister for Culture about: What view does she have on the preliminary examination from the perspective that she herself is in power over what new services SVT, SR and UR should be allowed to launch? Does the Minister consider that the amendments she proposes to the bill, namely shorter probationary periods and the possibility for third parties to report new posts, are sufficient to extend a fundamental arm's length gap between the policy and the content of the media? I have a further question, and it is whether the Minister sees the criticism of public service and what she thinks of it.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-439	Madam President, I would like Just as regards the consultation bodies, the government sees problems with the current system of ex ante evaluation, that is, even if the proposal comes from the authority, it is the government that makes the final decision. Even if it is not meant to go into content, it can still be understood that the political side is in where it should not be, and just as the united Committee on Culture is behind it, we intend to investigate this as quickly as possible. With the other adjustments to the ex ante evaluation, I hope that we have now found a good balance and a system that both gives the public service broadcasters the freedom they need and creates legitimacy vis-à-vis, for example, the other commercial operators. The waves of debate are high about public service. I'm looking at what the Audit Board has reported. The Audit Board has a mandate to review that the public service broadcasters remain within the scope of their mandate: they shall examine objectivity and impartiality. I note that, of the decisions taken by the Audit Board, very few convictions deal with precisely the objective and impartiality mission for quite a number of years and very many hours of broadcasting. My question is: how does the Member of Parliament, Angelika Bengtsson, view the fact that there are very few programmes and elements that have been convicted? What do these facts say in relation to the debate with very high levels of voice held, among other things, by Swedish democratic representatives?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-444	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Culture, for the questions and for the answers to my own questions! As far as the Audit Board is concerned, it's interesting. As I mentioned in my speech, there is a discrepancy between what the Audit Board is looking at and what the people, the citizens, believe that the Audit Board is looking at. Timbro has a report on it, which I recommend to the Minister of Culture to look at. This is precisely the problem: the Audit Board is looking at what is linked to the broadcasting permit and not factual errors. I think that is a problem, and here we have mentioned suggestions as to what we want it to look like instead. It's great that the minister will urgently investigate the pre-trial. But it would be good to know when the investigation will begin and when the Minister believes that the investigation can make suggestions to ensure that the arm's length is longer than it is today. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for attending this debate. It is very good given the great debate in politics and in society linked to public service issues. So we're talking about six years ahead, and that's a very long time.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-449	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to stress that it is self-evident that public service activities should be conducted objectively and impartially. That is exactly why we also have the Audit Board. The fact that the number of convictions for bias and insubstantiality is perhaps rather an indication that the public service is doing its job quite well. I have taken note of the report referred to by Angelika Bengtsson, and I do not think it says much about anything. This shows that the public service is doing its job well, given that there have been few convictions and many broadcasts for a long time. I am concerned when reference is made to a climate of debate or the views of the citizens without seeing their own role in the matter. Referring to studies and exaggerating their conclusions, perhaps contributing to the debate in an unconstructive way. The fact is that public services enjoy a high level of confidence among the Swedish people both in relation to other institutions in our society and in relation to other public service companies in the Nordic region. I think we should be proud of what public service does. Public service shall be conducted with objectivity and impartiality, and there is a review board to carry out its mission. The Swedish Democrats refer to the desire to make changes. They are unconcrete, and I think it is important that we stick to the facts when discussing these issues. That's where the Audit Board will carry out its mission.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-454	Madam President, I would like I understood a number of beautiful expressions that I liked. If the media silences our democracy. There was talk of media pluralism and side by side. The last sounds almost like a potential song title – side by side. Does the Minister for Culture have any concern that public services are overflowing and going beyond the mission so that this, alongside competition, is in imbalance? It may be an activity that goes beyond the core mission and swells into a large number of programmes that I understand the Minister wants to hold back so that they do not disrupt competition. Is the Minister concerned that this could happen?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-456	Madam President, I would like Worry is the wrong word. Rather, I would say that it is important that we ensure the responsibility of public services. It's about two things. One is that we secure responsibility. We say in the bill that public service obviously has a responsibility when it comes to commercial media conditions, for example locally, to conduct journalistic activities. We say that this should be taken into account. Here I know there's a call. Both Swedish Television and Swedish Radio have talks with local actors about how they can interact in a good way. But it should be done with healthy conditions of competition. And I think we both share the view that this is a good thing. Then there is the issue of the core public service mission and what public service should do. There I, the government and the Green Party stand firm that the broad mission is important. Everyone in Sweden should feel that they are affected by public service. They should feel that there is something to appeal to them. Public service must reflect conditions throughout Sweden. I believe that we will have a better public service, a better public debate and a better democracy from a broad mission so that many people come into contact with public services. Roland Utbolt asked about the boundaries, if public service can swell too much. Yes, we are sitting here now and defining in the broadcasting license what public service should do. We have agreed in the Public Service Committee on the broad mission. Then there is the ex ante test to ensure that complementary activities of greater importance, when trying out new services from public service, will be subject to scrutiny. It aims to set different types of external framework for public service activities. I believe that the government in the bill has found a good balance and taken into account that we should have a strong and broad public service with good conditions, and it should be innovative. However, we also need to have different kinds of operating frameworks.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-463	Madam President, I would like I appreciate that we are addressing the issue of the interaction between the local media so that it works well. I really agree with that. Now that we have the Minister for Culture here, I would like to ask how the Minister thinks about the future. There is now a six-year broadcasting permit, and it will run as planned. But now that the minister is here, I wonder what vision she has for public service in the future. Can the Minister formulate something that gives an idea of what the Minister wants to do in the future? It would be interesting to hear if she could reach even a little further than those six years. The Minister is the highest authority on the government side, so I am counting on the possibility to formulate something. I know that the Minister was concerned that public service should not be allowed to swell as much as possible. One should be able to keep the balance, side by side, as we have talked about, with media pluralism. I would like to hear the Minister formulate a vision for public service in the future.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-466	Madam President, I would like It's flattering that Roland Utbolt wants me to formulate a vision for what will be in the upcoming state of transmission in six years' time. I'm not gonna dare do that. Let me take my point of departure in the proposal we are discussing today. I think that several voices in this House have spoken a little condescendingly about the fact that the bill contains nothing, that there is nothing new. I believe that there is absolutely something new. We are now taking step by step a more modern regulation of public services. As Roland Utbolt notes, the media market is changing extremely rapidly. That is why I think it is difficult for me, Roland Utbolt and several others in this House to see what the media landscape will look like in six years' time. What I can most likely say is that we will all need a high level of preparedness for change. I believe that, with the help of the broadcasting licence, we give the public service companies a great opportunity to be innovative, evolving in their time and be close to the Swedish people – not least digitally. It is a matter of great freedom under responsibility. We shall certainly refrain from discussing in this House detailed solutions and exactly how public service with its role in the media market should resolve various issues. We will give public services these opportunities in confidence, and freedom under responsibility will prevail so that public services can develop their activities in the best possible way. Once again, I want to come back to seeing the broad mission as crucial for public service to be relevant to everyone in Sweden. Everyone in Sweden should have access to high-quality journalism, entertainment, culture and sport without having to have the thickest wallet. These are the principles on which the bill is based and on which I hope we can get broad agreement on the future ahead of future broadcasting permits.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-471	Madam President, I would like Side by side, together they help the state and capital, they sit in the same boat It was an excellent inspiration from the previous exchange of views, because that's what it's all about when we talk about public service – side by side with commercial media actors. That's excellent. I would like to thank the previous speaker here for the interesting exchanges of views in every way. I, who am new to the committee and my moderate colleagues, have been given the opportunity over the past year to put us into an interesting and fundamentally important issue, namely the media and, in particular, public service as an expression of democracy. It's pretty complicated matter. It contains both technicalities and principles, but also a lot of opinions and feelings. All of this is important for us to be both sensitive to and to take into account the balances we make, because politics also governs the framework for public service companies. It has been a pleasure to dive into this with great curiosity and of course in the light of the previous investigation by the Public Service Committee. As far as the Moderates are concerned, we have passed on its views to the following reports by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media on the subject of objectivity, impartiality, economics and a number of other things – including the preliminary examination, which my esteemed colleague, Viktor Wärnick, will delve into here in due course. Madam President, I would like I like public service. I'm quite a consumer of public service. I am a big consumer of the media at all and I am happy to go up an hour earlier to go through all the news, both commercial and from public service and both international and national. I think it's important to have different reflections. I and the Moderates think it is important that public services have a clear role in democracy. It should be dependable, both in terms of impartiality and fact-finding and as part of the total defense. If it were so well that public service could guarantee just that! I'm going to get back to this with objectivity eventually. But first let me dwell on what we might be talking about here quite a bit. It is the emergency mission, for which the public service companies have a special responsibility. In times of crisis and distress, it is important to reach all people. Here I would like to highlight SVT and radio and above all local radio, P4. They have a special mission and dedicated resources and are part of exercises to maintain communication with all citizens of the country. It is extremely important to have this coverage and preparedness. But in the discussions that I, and especially Viktor and Lotta, have had for a whole year now with both the public service companies and the commercial operators, it may be an idea to continue to look at whether we are going to broaden the mission further. Is it only the public service providers who should be in charge of the task of preparedness, or could commercial operators also take on this task? We have put the question to several commercial operators, and they can well imagine it. But in that case it is important because it is an order from the state that we contribute funds in this respect, in order to maintain such preparedness would of course mean an investment. In the work that we Moderates want to start, we will turn all the stones around. The chairman of the Committee, Christer Nylander, points out that we must also look at the media consumption of young people today. I fully agree with both the committee chairman and Lotta Finstorp that it is a patching and repairing. It does not create an overall picture, either of the mission of preparedness or of how young people consume the media today, in the way they should. One thing that I am passionate about is the security of society in times of crisis and, at worst, war. Here it is important to bear in mind that young people may not always watch linear television. They watch play services, and they may do so for days or years afterwards. This needs to be addressed in order to reach out with crisis information on time. We have to look at that too. I do not think that the report highlights it sufficiently; it is a patching and repairing. Madam President, I would like I'd like to take a little turn about the economy, too. As the government decided first to take the economy and then look at the content, it is supposed to swallow, with permission, that we are discussing whether that idea is really good and whether the economic model that exists is to be filled. With funding through the tax bill, public service broadcasters become very dominant economically. Is that fair from the point of view of competition? Is there a balance between commercial operators and public service broadcasters as we wish? From the Moderates' side, we have pointed out that when Radiotjänst was closed in Kiruna, the 166 million would return to the tax collective to reduce the fee. We also want an annual reconciliation to be made so that a supposed surplus is not built on and makes public service even stronger economically in relation to commercial operators. We have not heard about this in the way we would like. Nor do I feel in the debate that this is a particular concern for the parties in the government or on the left. We are very concerned about this because it is the money of others and we must be very careful about taxpayers' money. Just pampering new money because it is felt that public services must have even more money, as I see from the speech here that the Left Party is doing, do not think we are the right way to tackle shortcomings in the report before us. We need a comprehensive review of the whole media policy. Unless other parties want to do so with us in a parliamentary inquiry, we Moderates intend to do so on their own to know where we stand well in advance of the next broadcasting permit period. Madam President, I would like There are a few things that have bothered Viktor Wärnick and me in the talks we had with the public service companies. They have also surprised us a little. There is one... I do not want to say a tone-deafness but a bit of an incomprehension to what we have said about the debate on the question of objectivity and impartiality. We have also been subjected to almost a lobbying operation without its like, I have to say from my many years in Parliament, where neither fears nor factual arguments are heard that we have tried to highlight, but are constantly in a defensive position. Our citizens have high confidence in public service, and it is important to maintain it. But it's falling, unfortunately, and that makes us Moderates concerned. In order to maintain a high level of trust, our public service companies, with the specific tasks they have to do in times of disinformation check facts and be the guarantor of objectivity, cannot risk being called into question in the way that actually happens in the public debate. We must not turn a blind eye to that. It is our ultimate responsibility not to wave this away but to take on what it is based on. As far as the economy is concerned, we have heard that it is important that we are major players in the media market so that we can lead citizens to look at things that are perhaps less commercially viable. I'm also concerned about that, because it's not part of the mission either. Public service is incredibly important, above all, as a guarantor of things that may not be commercially viable. I mean, for example, minority politics and culture. If you then stress that you need to be one of the big or even biggest players to be able to lead into this, you have missed your mission. Madam President, I would like As a whole, we are moderates behind public service, but there is every reason to review the whole media policy as such. We Moderates intend to do so, pending hopefully a new investigation into not only the pre-test but also other parts in order to put this patchwork together. Finally, I call for reservation 5 on objectivity and impartiality.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-494	Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few words about funding. This has been debated and discussed in the media recently in the wake of internal discussions in, among others, the Moderates. We introduced a new financing model because the old one was outdated. It was not sustainable in the long term. The TV license was based on what technology you had rather than how you took advantage of the public service business. Now we have a system that we have come up with in common, which is sustainable and technology neutral in the long term and does not benefit certain types of households. We agreed that this is a fee to be handled separately from other taxes so that it is not subject to political horse-trading. One should not be tempted, when discussing annual budgets, to, for example, move money away from public services, but to protect the independence of public services from politics. I wonder whether the Moderates continue to support that model and that system, which means that we have independent funding, because it is absolutely fundamental. It must not be the case that you start talking about moving money from one account to another.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-498	Madam President, I would like That it was out of fashion and that changes needed to be made, we are in complete agreement. We also agreed that there was a need for another funding. We did not agree, even in the last round of the Culture Committee, on the order in which this would take place. It is a bit like when, in connection with the regional reform, Region Blekinge was created. It was decided to merge the municipal associations and said: Now we will have a Region Blekinge, and it will cost this much. And then you came up with, well, what the hell are we gonna do? Under this regime, this government is acting as well. One must first know the scope and take into account what the digital media landscape looks like and then decide whether the funding should really be as extensive as it is today. Furthermore, the comments we made regarding the fact that the public service broadcasters receive considerably more financial muscle than the commercial operators were not taken into account through the tax bill. This is the background to the annual balancing that we want to see and that we thought that when Radiotjänst is now closed in Kiruna, which has handled the obsolete TV fee, it would take account of the fact that it was not the state's money but the taxpayers' money that should be returned. This has not been taken into account either. This is a democratically important point in a consideration that must be made when, in time, as I hope the Minister of Culture initiates, we take a holistic approach to funding, scope and direction for public services, which we have given so strong muscles.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-503	Madam President, I would like It is a fact that we have taken a holistic approach. We have a new financing model that is sustainable in the long term, and there are relatively few and small adjustments that the Moderates propose economically. For the most part, we agree on the scope and level of public service funding. Then Annicka Engblom also knows that there are systems for the possible regulation of the public service account, and of course we will follow that. The ambition is that there should be a balance in the long term so that we keep the level based on the funding that we have said public service should have. I hear that the Moderates are now in a discussion about dieting public services in different ways. This was not something that was highlighted during the work. We have come to the broad task of content in agreement. Now the Moderates change and want to diet public service in different ways. I hope that this opinion will be highlighted in the forthcoming investigation for the next broadcasting permit. I can also reassure Member of Parliament Annicka Engblom that, as in the past, there will be such an investigation, in which we can weigh these various issues. I would also like to take this opportunity to comment on what Mrs Engblom mentioned from the speaker's seat regarding the debate on objectivity and impartiality. Yes, any questioning of objectivity and impartiality should and should be taken seriously. We have the Audit Board, which will handle this. My question to Annicka Engblom is that you do not trust the review board's assessments. There are quite few precipitates for a very long time. Is this not rather a sign that public services are actually doing their job quite well? Do you not trust the Audit Board, or do you not like the decisions it has made? These are questions I ask myself when it is argued in sweeping terms that it should be a more rigorous examination.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-508	Madam President, I would like These are, in fact, free interpretations of what our proposals mean. Let me be very clear: For the next broadcast period, we think in the Moderates – and we have announced this very clearly – turn all the stones around and put together a whole media policy. Today we have heard many news from the Minister for Culture from the speaker's chair. There's going to be an investigation into one thing and the other. That's excellent! That is not what we are dealing with in today's report, nor in the proposal. In the future, we can take with us that promises have been made, not only about an investigation into the ex ante testing in all its parts, but also about a whole media policy. We will definitely follow this with interest. Madam President, I would like As far as the discussion of objectivity and impartiality is concerned, I must emphasise that the question is there. It is unfortunate, but one must find the reasons for it and respond to it in order for the public service to be completely incapacitated from that discussion. This is not a moderate finding. I can, if I like, highlight a whole bunch of leading writers, editorials and journalists around the country who say the same thing. The fact that the public service companies are not fully fulfilling their independent mission is also highlighted by the journalist collective. I think that is serious, and it is our responsibility as a representative of the people to get to the bottom of this. We Moderates will. But I am extremely concerned when I hear that it is being waved away in the way that is happening on the part of the government.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-513	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for the song by Ebba Grön: The state and capital are in the same boat. Of course, this brings me further to the issue that interests me and Annicka very much, namely defence and security policy. Last term of office, I sat on the Justice Committee and worked on the terrorist strategy that we drew up. In connection with the terrible terrorist attack on Drottninggatan, it was quickly realised that public services will play a significant role in preparedness and information for the general public, now that we have the globalised media market with several actors providing information and risk of inappropriate information in times of crisis. If I was not mistaken about what Mrs Engblom mentioned in her speech, she felt that more media players should be included in the overall defence in order to publish information to the general public. I take a critical view of that position. In the area of media policy in particular, this could pose an enormous risk. I ask Mrs Annicka: have I interpreted the speech incorrectly? Is it not much wiser to allow public service, as a broad media player with strong trust in the public at large, to be one of the few actors in total defence in terms of information, not least in crisis situations?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-517	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the thanks, Lawen Redar! I cannot allow Roland Utbolt to have a monopoly on singing in the Chamber. Incidentally, it is a very good Ebba Grön song which I think we can both interpret and share in different ways. Thanks for the question, Lawen Redar! It's important. But what I mean by this needing to be looked at – and that is why I have also asked our commercial actors whether they could live up to the mission – is to broaden the actual mission of preparedness. At least the idea must be raised in this. Not all our citizens watch linear television. Not all our citizens have mobile phones. All our citizens need to be reached in different ways. Some choose to look more at the commercial operators than on public service. In that case, it is a purely broader task that commercial operators will have to return to what it would mean. That's what we want to look at. As I see it, the information to be released should, as it is today, be based on the crisis information that, among other things, SOS Alarm and MSB stand for when something is in crisis in society.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-521	Madam President, I would like I also share the view that it is incredibly important that we make it clear through the broadcasting permit that Swedish Radio and SVT have a clear responsibility as part of the total defence and that they should continue to send messages that are important to the public free of charge, not least in crisis situations. However, I am somewhat critical of opening up to other media channels. One can certainly have open discussions in society about how to strengthen crisis preparedness, but I think it is of tremendous importance that one is careful in choosing which actors should be included in the total defence. I am sending that comment to Annicka Engblom and the moderate group that will look further at media policy issues.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-523	Madam President, I would like Unlike Lawen Redar, who belongs to the government party, we do not want to close any doors but open more. We want to be open and curious not only in terms of the mission but also in other respects. We want to be sensitive to societal debate, societal needs and media consumption. There is so much to drill into with regard to these issues to which neither the bill nor the cultural report responds. We want to get the ground running. One should not speak English in this House, I have received it, but now I am doing it anyway because I think it is a very good expression before the broad review of media policy promised by the Minister for Culture. We Moderates want an open mind here, where this may be one of the stones that we turn over. It is only for the benefit of citizens, public service, commercial operators and ultimately for the Swedish people.
i-JrVrbLtd53FeAx1QpVgbB5	Madam President, I would like I ask you to accept reservation 1. Public service is on everyone's lips, and the winged question is, Where are we going? . is reporting and has gained a new meaning. What should public service do, to what extent and at whose expense? For several years we Swedish democrats have chiseled the parliament's sharpest reform agenda, groundwork and thought through. Today we are seeing a common conservative opposition shaped around the criticism and core issues we have long highlighted. I welcome that. Better late than never. The higher the awareness, the better. O the sooner, the greater the opportunity to change without stress and pave the way for reform rather than revolution. What is revolutionary in today's debate, however, is the tone of Social Democracy. In contrast to what it usually sounds like in the cultural debate, one has suddenly become the nation's champions. Swedish culture, Swedish language and Swedishness must be strong in competition with the global. I welcome that, too. It shows that there is maturity. We need to ensure that in international competition we have a production in Sweden in Swedish, by Swedes and for Swedes. It is also revolutionary to hear that the previously criticised and comprehensive reform agenda of Swedish democracy has suddenly become relatively uncontroversial. It may also say something about where public opinion is going, if it now has to do with the voters' confidence in our party now exceeding the confidence in the Social Democracy of the LO federations and that in public opinion we are competing for the first place in Swedish politics. Perhaps we have been right in our analysis. It is clear that public services repeatedly lack impartiality and objectivity. We certainly noticed this in the final debate of the last election, when, as a public service company, they went out and distanced themselves from a designated party leader, rather than the party leaders dissociating themselves from each other and taking the debate. This was then convicted in the Audit Board. There are countless examples of similar procedures. This also, of course, affected the election in favour of social democracy, among other things. There is also much evidence that the picture has been embellished and does not reflect the reality that many voters themselves experience. It's about the selection of news, about the profitability of immigration – the first downfall of skills, which was described as the major migration crisis in 2015 – and how it valued which experts it brought in and who had to assess and carry out an impact assessment of migration policy, climate policy and other hotly debated issues. We can note that confidence in public services continues to decline in particular within the electoral groups belonging to the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. In some studies, confidence is growing weakly among the voters of the left-wing liberal parties, but in other studies it is actually decreasing among them as well as among young people. This says something about the state of things. We should be happy that we have Swedish public service. There is basically a good and wise idea of mission and importance in international competition. We are a small area of language and culture in the Nordic region, and we need to protect this in many different ways. At the same time, we must be aware that we need to streamline and streamline our activities. We see – not least when the Committee on Culture visited Denmark recently – that it is possible to do more for less, as it was said. We need to achieve a normalisation where Swedish public services in line with several other Nordic countries and European countries are coordinated in a joint company that is formally independent. It is a response to an increased desire and demand to slip the budget and become sharper but narrower, as the Moderates put it. It is also a response to technological developments. It's about being able to work more format independent with moving image, text, sound and so on. The reason why the Swedish Democrats are today calling for a rejection of the government proposal is that they have started at the wrong end. Contrary to what has been heard in the course of the debate, I would say that the Swedish Democrats' reform agenda is rigid, solid and comprehensive. But it is wise and well thought out, because we have started on time. We said early on that we did not want to introduce a general tax without popular support, from which we now see the result. In turn, declining confidence leads to a hollow popular base, which is a long-term threat to the public service that not least the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party and other parties in government cooperation protect. There we should share a concern. We also see that objectivity can be better achieved through a changed mirroring mission, which introduces increased Nordic cooperation in the form of reflecting each other's reality and everyday life. It is noticed that Denmark's Radio, NRK and Yle highlight important social issues but also more perspectives in the political discussion, in civil society discussion and in the public debate. This, as well as more clearly exposing corrections to broadcasters, streamlining operations and reversing the confidence figures, will be the cornerstones for meeting a loss of confidence and laying the foundations for a paradigm shift in which public services are reformed in order to preserve the long-term.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-539	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats have shown a tone deafness in the face of digitalisation, globalisation and technology development. In fact, this is where we Social Democrats make our point of departure, not in some form of portrayal of nationalism or conservatism. We do not want in any way to limit the Swedish stories and prevent them from being portrayed in the great strong media landscape that we will have in Sweden. Nor do we interpret the mirror mission as a form of quota when we talk about diversity and equality. It is a natural part of Sweden whether you want to or not. My question to Aron Emilsson is: Why do you interpret gender equality, diversity and pluralism in the Swedish stories as some form of quota?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-542	Madam President, I would like I can begin by emphasising that the Swedish Democrats are the party that has noted globalisation and digitalisation as the biggest changes in the Swedish and international media landscape early on and clearly in its policy and pointed out why a reformed and strong Swedish public service is needed in this context. There's some clarity about that. Then it is obvious that theory does not always reach all the way to practice. We react when we see that the broadcasters, like some other state institutions, are rather busy in various respects discussing representativeness in the form of color scales, ethnicity, external attributes, abilities or how you look or act as a human being. This is an out-of-time way of measuring gender equality. At the same time, there is the power of appointment that the government has. I think everyone here agrees on equality. M a it is about giving men and women the same chance, the same space and the same opportunity to apply for positions and services, represent their perspective and so on. We have already pointed out that we want to broaden the perspective – that includes it. But measuring representativeness in external attributes, as has been expressed, is completely foreign to me. It's a factor that I thought we'd put behind us.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-546	Madam President, I would like I urge Mr Emilsson to read again about the meaning of the mission of reflection for public service. It shows nothing about measuring representativeness and nothing about quotas. It is about that there should be a diversity in the supply for Swedes. It also includes that the Swedish stories contain a history of the pluralism that we have in our country, which is a positive development for our country. I note that the Swedish Democrats claim that a level has now been reached where the general public supports the media policy of the Swedish Democrats. That's not true. The Swedish Democrats have no sharp media policy in the public service area. It is rather the case that there are some claims regarding parallel broadcasting with HD technology. Some form of proposal is being put forward for parts of this, but that is not a sharper criticism. Nevertheless, the whole proposal is rejected. What is really the strongest criticism you have against the bill? It beats its chest, but the fact is that it does not have much to do with this broadcasting permit period and the whole mission on which we are to vote today.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-549	Madam President, I would like It is not surprising that the Social Democrats do not see the beam in their own eyes. There is a reason why the greatest criticism of how public service functions today comes from bourgeois or conservative electorates. That should say something, and it should be a threat to all parties and everyone else who defends and defends public service. I understand you want a status quo mode. You want to sit still in the boat and do not want to suggest any major changes about broadcasting permits, review functions, exposure of corrections, transparency in communication and dialogue with the consumer and so on. That, of course, is not in the interest of the Social Democrats. It's perfectly understandable. But time and again we have seen the facts that there is a lack of objectivity and independence. Of course, the review systems are not being followed, and they are not being followed on the basis of how citizens define scrutiny and supervision. Then you should have investigated this. We brought forward early in committee and early in the investigation that this is not an additional directive that should come as a trailer when the issue of financing has been resolved, but this should go first. Then there is a broad and sound basis for introducing the fee that is reasonable, right and correct for how public service is to be financed. Now it's all started at the wrong end. I believe, as I said, that there are good grounds for reviewing also what recruitment policies and the like look like. Although in theory you have a wise writing on pluralism and mirroring tasks, it is not followed in practice. We see that in senior positions and in internal recruitments representatives are rewarded who in one way or another have or have had a clear list to the left. It is a problem for independence and the experience of it.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-553	Madam President, I would like I'm the last one out. It feels good to round off this important debate on public service and the permit period 2020 – 2025. This debate has even been honoured by the Minister for Culture – we thank you for that. I would of course like to add to what has been said by my moderate colleagues Lotta Finstorp and Annicka Engblom. There are two perspectives for us moderates in terms of public service. It is about what we want to see with public service as such and the broadcasters in the short term but also in the long term. In the short term – this is the closest in time for the forthcoming permit period – we have moderated a battery of proposals for measures to overcome problems and doubts in public service and in the governance of public services. Some proposals in the Government's proposal deserve, after examination, specific criticism, which has been made here in the speaker's chair in previous speeches. Madam President, I would like The Government's proposal for a pre-test procedure is one of those that deserves particular criticism. According to the Government's proposal, despite the justified criticism of the fundamentally problematic fact that political motives may form the basis for such a test, the system of self-examination is to be maintained. The government's argument that it should be the government itself that will continue to decide on the approval of a service to be tested, since it is the government that formulates the public service mission, is not sustainable. That's not what a legal system looks like. It is positive, however, that the government parties, the Social Democrats and the Green Party – during the gallows, we must say – have changed their mind for parliamentary treatment. When a defeat in the House seemed inevitable, it agreed with the proposal based on the request of the Moderates, among others. We have seen that approach in the past, but the original proposal can never be denied even if the Minister for Culture claims to welcome the committee's proposal for an announcement. Madam President, I would like A new regime for ex ante testing must therefore be introduced, so that it is managed by an independent function instead of being decided by the government. It is good that, during today's vote, the Riksdag will address a unanimous announcement to the government with this meaning. Madam President, I would like We Moderates protect objectivity, impartiality and objectivity in public service. What is published and broadcast by the broadcasters must of course be able to follow up and review even if it is broadcast and published online. Today, under the Freedom of Expression Act, there is freedom of establishment and a ban on censorship, which means that the Constitution prohibits the state from authorising broadcasters as well as reviewing the activities that take place online. This is, of course, unreasonable in terms of public service. The activities of the public service companies must be subject to scrutiny and follow-up regardless of the method by which they are sent. But it cannot happen until a constitutional change is in place. We Moderates therefore believe that it is not reasonable at present to approve the Government's proposal to allow broadcasters to credit a certain proportion of the activities on the Internet in the fulfilment of the public service mission. Regardless of the form in which public service broadcasting takes place, there must be safety valves and the possibility of scrutiny, both for the sake of legitimacy and for the sake of the individual. Until any constitutional change in this area is completed, we Moderates believe that only activities that can be authorised and that can be reviewed should be credited for the fulfilment of the public service mission. Madam President, I would like As I mentioned in my introduction, we should also start work right now to chisel out what we want to see with public service in the longer term. We Moderates want to initiate work as soon as possible before the permit period begins in 2026. At the latest, a reformed public service policy needs to be in place. A new state public service inquiry should be set up, preferably already during the current term of office, with this aim in mind. We Moderates will come back with our initial values for such an investigation, but we can already see that reforms are needed in at least four areas: This is about the mission, where we believe that the public service mission should be refined to move towards becoming narrower and sharper. It is a question of impartiality and objectivity. How such issues are dealt with by public services is crucial to its legitimacy and confidence in the future. Clearer forms of media ethics review of public service programmes should be established and sanctions for breaches of the rules on impartiality and objectivity should be reviewed. It's about the funding. The starting point should be that public service should continue to be financed from tax revenue in the future, but overall public service should, in the long term, be allocated significantly less tax revenue as a result of a more purely mission. The public service tax could therefore be reduced. This also applies to the management and follow-up of the non-publicist part of the public service. The public service of the future must be refined in order to maintain its legitimacy and confidence with the Swedish people, in a media landscape that is now changing at a raging pace. That's what we Moderates intend to work for. Madam President, I would like Of course, I also support all of our moderate reservations, but for the reasons of time saving, I am content to assist my colleagues Lotta Finstorp and Annicka Engblom in their request for reservation 5 on clearer requirements for objectivity and impartiality in public service.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-574	Madam President, I would like Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time, which requires strong policy action. Our common resources are limited, and the time is short if we are to reduce emissions enough to keep heating below 2 degrees in line with the Paris Agreement. The moderates' starting point for climate policy is therefore that emissions should be reduced as much as possible per invested crown. The Swedish budget is not infinite, and therefore every crown demands a priority. Like other policies, climate policy must be effective and deliver results. Last term of office, the Swedish Government launched the Climate Act, its main effort to reduce emissions in Sweden. Climate change meant subsidies for local and regional climate action and a load-home support for private individuals. Climate change has been criticised from the outset by a number of expert authorities. Today, we are debating precisely the Swedish National Audit Office's letter on Climate Change. Let me read you some excerpts from this letter. You write: According to the Swedish National Audit Office, marginal costs are higher than according to the Environmental Objectives Committee's analysis in order to reach the 2030 target. The Swedish National Audit Office's assessment is therefore that Climate Change is not part of a cost-effective combination of instruments to reach the Swedish climate target by 2030. ..................................................... The Swedish National Audit Office therefore recommends changes to the support system that would increase cost-effectiveness. ..................................................... But the Swedish National Audit Office not only strongly criticises the Climate Scene. The Swedish National Audit Office also states that the Government has reproduced a one-sided picture of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's reporting of Climate Change to the Riksdag. The Swedish National Audit Office writes: The Swedish National Audit Office estimates that the Government has chosen to reproduce a one-sided positive picture of what the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has reported, and that there is also a lack of an overall socio-economic assessment of the impact of the aid. ..................................................... Therefore, the Moderates chose to register Isabella Lövin this summer. Madam President, I would like Climate change is expensive, ineffective and insufficient. According to the Swedish National Audit Office, the cost of climate change reductions is between SEK 1,000 and SEK 4,000 per tonne of carbon dioxide. This compares with global emission reductions that cost about SEK 60 per tonne of carbon dioxide. The government thus spends 2 billion on a measure that costs up to SEK 4,000 for a reduction in emissions, while the Moderates spend their 2 billion on emissions reductions that can cost as little as SEK 60 per tonne. What does the government itself say about the Climate Scene? It is said that climate change has been one of the most important measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In the budget, the government also doubles the support for this measure. It is therefore clear who has the most effective climate policy. In order for the difference in real climate benefits to be clear not only in parliamentary debates, we would like moderates to see the Government present the climate benefits in its proposals as soon as they are presented. It would then be clear what priorities are being set with our tax money. Madam President, I would like Yesterday another report came in Dagens Nyheter about something that we already know, namely that the government's climate policy does not reach its goals. Over the past three years, emissions have decreased by less than 1% per year. Figures from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency show that emissions increased by 2 per cent the previous year. It is the red-green government's climate pact – increased emissions. Sweden accounts for around 0.15% of emissions globally. Sweden's role in international politics is therefore, above all, to be an example in climate policy. To set an example in climate policy, we need to show that with effective reforms large reductions in emissions with limited resources can be achieved. The government is now moving in the opposite direction and spends billions of Swedish tax money on measures that are barely producing any results at all. Madam President, I would like The Moderates are therefore in favour of the reservation.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-590	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the reservation to be approved. The need to combat the risks of global warming is one of today's challenges. But we have many challenges in Sweden, and we have many challenges globally. We have problems with poverty in general and with energy poverty in particular. In Sweden we have problems with care queues, a runaway insecurity and a war between criminal gangs that society has lost control of. The fact that there are so many challenges globally and in Sweden underlines the importance of one thing: that we make use of our resources. We need to realise that they are limited and focus on using them as efficiently as possible. When it comes to combating greenhouse gas emissions in the world, Sweden is a small player. If we in Sweden are to be able to influence others, we need our actions to be exemplary in terms of technology development, efficiency and impact on growth. Without cost-effective measures and contributions to technological development, there are very little opportunities for Sweden to contribute to more countries reducing their emissions at a time when emissions are increasing instead. Madam President, I would like Now we are once again faced with the fact that independent reviewers have struck down on Swedish climate policy, and this applies once again to climate change. The Swedish National Audit Office notes in its letter that the climate table does not reach what can be said to be an effective climate policy. The Swedish National Audit Office also notes that the calculations of emissions reductions achieved as a result of climate change are false when emission reductions are double counted. To sum up, climate change has the same problem of inefficiency as previous programmes. Because of this, it is reasonable that the climate table should be closed down and replaced by a more effective climate policy, as can be seen from the reservation that Sweden's democrats are behind today. Madam President, I would like When the government's representatives respond to this, the argument is usually based on something like that they see problems but that this is the best thing there is given that other policies, such as even more shock-raised fuel prices, do not have tolerance and acceptance among the people. However, it is not an argument for pursuing policies that do not contribute to the reduction of emissions in an economically justifiable way. If there are no ideas for more effective policies, there are plenty of challenges in other areas to address. It is therefore quite tragic that, for example, millions of people from this programme continue to spend their time on study promotions across the country in order to have a CO-2 diet in the field of climate therapy. Climate therapy may not take up most of these millions, but at the same time it is ridiculous. How can it continue, year after year, that we spend money on climate therapy in study circles to combat global warming? Taxpayers must view this as a purely insane policy.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-596	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the reservation to be approved. Since I come last among the reserves, much of the criticism has already been made. These are also criticisms that have been made many times before, not only from here but in many different forums around Sweden. Nevertheless, we certainly have a job to do in terms of climate change in our world. We see how climate change affects creation. However, as previous speakers have clearly pointed out, we must act and invest in measures that actually help. It's not about which party or which governments spend the most money – or who is the highest in the numbers bingon, to speak to the Prime Minister. In this case too, we see that quantity takes precedence over quality, as in, for example, the debate on the protection of forests. Clearly, it is important to invest as much money as possible, regardless of the effect. In spite of the money-gaps the Red-Green Government has done, emissions have increased over the last year, as the Climate Policy Council has also pointed out in its report earlier this year. Since 1990, Swedish greenhouse gas emissions have decreased by around 19 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent, of which a decrease of almost 13 million tonnes took place during the eight years of the alliance government. When we have a new government, the transition can take off again by focusing on technology shift rather than symbol politics. During the Alliance's time in power, emissions dropped while growth increased. To think that we should be able to beat ourselves and lower our standard of living in order to save the climate and at the same time bring with us the developing countries that really need to change is like believing in help from Santa Claus. It is growth that generates money and knowledge so that technology can help us in the transition. In addition, our technology will help raise developing countries to a better standard of living and provide their citizens with a much better living environment. We can't back down into the future. Madam President, I would like There is still some dispute about whether climate change is human-made or natural cycles, although the lion's share of our scientists and scientists is clearly consistent in that it is in fact we humans who are responsible for climate change through the emissions that our way of life generates. But no matter what you think is the reason, it can never be wrong to make our world a better place to live. Of course, we are going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and of course we are going to minimise the emissions of toxic substances in our nature. But we have to act smartly. Madam President, I would like The overall objective of environmental policy is to hand over to the next generation a society where the major environmental problems are solved, without causing increased environmental and health problems beyond Sweden's borders. Then it is important to bet on the right horse, if the expression is allowed. Unfortunately, this government has invested in horses that have galloped and thus been disqualified, or on horses that would not really have come to the start. It is about such things as climate anxiety therapy and carbon dioxide dieting. It is therefore money that has been invested in courses where participants learn to cook vegan food, try cycling on electric bicycles and talk about thoughts and feelings about climate change. This is perhaps interesting for the right participant, and perhaps conscientious, but it is hardly successful. In addition, efforts are being made to underpin a climate and environmental policy based on guilt and shame. In our climate goals, we can read, among other things, that human health should be exposed to minimal negative environmental impact while promoting the positive impact of the environment on human health. The circuits shall be resource efficient and as far as possible free from dangerous substances. We shall have good management of our natural resources, and the consumption of goods and services will cause as little environmental and health problems as possible. Of course we can fix this, but in a positive spirit and without guilt and shame. Madam President, I would like The Swedish National Audit Office's report largely confirms the criticism that not only the Christian Democrats but also other actors, such as the Konjunkturinstitutet, have expressed. There is a great need for an offensive and cost-effective climate policy. In particular, we need to focus here in Sweden on biofuels, climate-neutral aviation and electrification of the transport sector. Against this background, we conclude that climate change should be abolished in its current form, in favour of more cost-effective climate policy measures. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the Government has given misleading reports to the Riksdag regarding Climate Change. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which administers the grant, reports both the pros and cons of the programme to the government. But in the Government's presentation to the Riksdag, the Government has then left out the criticism of what it considers to be the crown jewel of its climate policy. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to present a comparison presented in a research report from the Forest Industries. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency itself estimates that the climate effect of all these tax chandeliers will be 1.5 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent over 16 years. The effect has been questioned by several instances, but regardless of this, the annual level of climate effect is approximately the same as the Swedish forest and forest industry fixes in one week. The climate is one of today's predestined issues. We must take it seriously by ensuring that we get our money's worth. Emissions have to go down, and the climate is not waiting for people to learn how to ride electric bicycles.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-608	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by putting forward some of the local voices that are at stake. In Västernorrland they say: It is a great challenge for us to meet the new climate target. Climate change gives us better opportunities to succeed and, at the same time, to contribute to regional development in which the competitiveness of companies is strengthened. Eon Värme i Timrå received 12.7 million for district heating connection by Bogrundet's nursery, which is owned by SCA. It is the world's largest nursery and has the capacity to grow about 85 million plants each year. Edsele's association in Sollefteå got 505,000 to replace its oil boiler. From the big to the small, but both are very important. Gotland invests in Biogas Gotland. Energy conversion is also being carried out at the slaughterhouse, and several companies in the tourism industry are investing in both charging stations for electric cars and the replacement of oil boilers. In Uppsala, important investments have been made in the capacity increase of the biogas plant, a new gas tank station, the expansion of charging stations, local heating lines, the phasing out of oil and the project Hunting on plastic. In Östervåla, Zetterberg, a truck builder, has received support to reduce energy consumption and phase out oil use. In Blekinge, they built a gas destruction facility and invested in charging stations, and local companies received support for energy conversion of their oil boilers. Among other things, Västerbotten has invested in conversion from heating oil to biooil, production and distribution of upgraded biogas, a variety of charging stations and a biofuel filling station. Madam President, I would like Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. According to the climate policy framework, on which we have a large political consensus, Sweden will have no net greenhouse gas emissions to the atmosphere by 2045 at the latest and will subsequently achieve negative emissions. To achieve this, we need to invest in different types of solutions that can lead to strong emission reductions in all sectors of society. So we need more tools to do this, not fewer. And we need to reduce emissions in Sweden, not just say that it should happen elsewhere. Climate change has been, and is, a very important measure to reduce emissions. It is the single largest and widest state support available for actors to seek to take climate action of a different nature. It is thus a strong driving force for transformation across the country to achieve the objectives of regional and national climate and energy strategies. It is a measure that leads to a pooling of forces. During the previous term of office, the Climate Centre supported more than 3,200 projects throughout the country. The Swedish National Audit Office – which we are now discussing – has evaluated the Climate Scene. Their overall conclusion is that climate change has largely been implemented in an effective way but that the support is not sufficiently cost-effective. The Swedish National Audit Office sees clear possibilities for improvement in terms of implementation, design and reporting of the support. For example, they feel that increasing the CO2 tax would be more cost-effective. However, according to the Swedish National Audit Office, this can be difficult to implement for other reasons. They therefore recommend changes to climate change that would increase cost-effectiveness. Several decisions have since been taken to develop and streamline climate change in accordance with the January agreement. Much development work is now under way, and it is important that this work continues. Through a developed investment in climate change, we can contribute to effective climate investments, including with a clear focus on measurable effects. Then we can continue to expand the charging infrastructure throughout the country, which is a prerequisite for electrification of the vehicle fleet. Then we can continue to support our municipalities and regions in their transition to fossil freedom. Then we can also continue to support Swedish industry, which around Sweden is working with innovative solutions and technological leaps to reduce emissions. Climate change gives us better opportunities to succeed and, at the same time, to contribute to regional development in which the competitiveness of companies is strengthened. That's how we reset and reach the climate goals – together. I would like to support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-623	Madam President, I would like We have now heard from the Social Democrats that they stand by the policy pursued, namely to spend 2 billion on a reform that has been considered both inefficient and very costly. Marlene Burwick mentioned in her speech that one example of what the money for Climate Klivet has gone to is that Eon – i.e. a company – has received money to make the transition that we know is needed. But at the same time as the Social Democrats are talking warmly about a policy that gives industry the opportunity to change – which I can certainly support – the people who live in rural areas and have no alternative to the car are subject to penalties. I wonder whether this really is a fair climate policy on the part of the Social Democrats. The Social Democrats and the Moderates usually agree that we must prioritise Swedish competitiveness and Swedish growth, but how is this done by penalising rural areas and allowing rural areas to account for a disproportionate part of the cost of conversion? Finally, Madam President, will my question to Marlene Burwick: Is it really reasonable that people who can afford to buy a Tesla should receive tax money to set up a charging station at home in the context of the climate? Is it a fair climate policy?
i-K3CpPgiXtryUTUieG2ELsJ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Louise Meijer, for the question! What I see when I read this report – and this is particularly true of the work that is being done around the country, as I have noted – is what climate change actually does for the cohesion of the country. This creates incentives for change throughout the country. This was also part of Louise Meijer's question. For us Social Democrats, it is extremely important to ensure that there is an opportunity for the whole country to be involved in the climate transition. That's the first way we can succeed. Then we must also ensure that we have tools that will enable the whole country to be involved in a transition. This is exactly what climate life, among other things, provides, together with the Industrial Klivet. These are two important instruments with which we can participate and ensure that we enable the transition. What is stated in the report we are discussing is that, for example, carbon tax could be used instead if we do not want to use this tool. But if you, as a party, are both arguing for the removal of climate change and energy, want to lower the CO2 tax and at the same time say that you want to protect the climate and combat the climate threat, my question is to Louise Meijer : How do you make that equation go together? What effective tools do the Moderates want to use to achieve a transformation throughout the country?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-630	Madam President, I would like The Moderates are responsible for a fair climate change. This means that the whole of Sweden needs to be part of our policy to make the transition – that we need to win broad support for it. This also means that rural areas cannot be penalised or bear a disproportionate share of the cost of conversion. Madam President, I would like Marlene Burwick continues to talk warmly about climate change and the measures that climate change means. At the same time, we know – as Mrs Burwick also mentioned in her speech – that the National Audit Office has had views on the effectiveness but also on the additional benefits, namely that measures implemented in the context of the Climate Act are measures that probably had been implemented anyway. The Swedish National Audit Office says that in order for it to be effective, you need to make changes in climate change, and they have pointed out some that would have to happen. Then I wonder: What changes is it that Marlene Burwick sees in front of her needs to happen in order for the Climate Board to reach the Swedish Audit Office's wordings on efficiency and that you do not spend money on things that would have come about regardless of whether you had spent tax money on it or not?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-633	Madam President, I would like I note once again that Louise Meijer mentions a fair climate transition. In view of Louise Meijer's speech just now, I would like to ask about fair climate change for the Moderates is about someone else making a change in some other country where it is cheaper to make an effort than it might be here. For us Social Democrats, it is fair that we all contribute, that we ensure that all of Sweden can participate in the transition. Therefore, the various efforts that we want to make are important in order to really reach the whole country. We have been in complete agreement on the revision of climate change, among other things following the criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office has brought forward. It is very much about the calculations that have been made and about the importance of evaluation, which has also been highlighted here from the Riksdag. Much is being done. But the basis for the support is to enable the whole of Sweden to be involved in the transition, and that is exactly what climate change means, among other things.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-637	Madam President, I would like The climate situation is serious. Swedish emissions are increasing, unlike during our time in the Alliance government, when we increased growth and reduced emissions at the same time. That is exactly the way we have to go if we are really going to change not only Sweden but the world. We must be a front country that not only shows how to change, but that we also want to change because it is good. The Swedish National Audit Office's report on Climate Change, which we are discussing today, has a great deal of justified criticism when it comes to the measures that have been implemented. For example, it is quite unreasonable to have been able to get money from taxpayers for climate anxiety therapy or that aid has been granted to replace rape diesel with palm oil diesel. We have heard a number of crazy examples from the speaker's chair today. Now that we have increased emissions and get justified criticism, there are two ways to choose. Either you choose to take responsibility and make sure that the errors are corrected so that you solve the problems that have been and tighten up and streamline the systems, or you stand aside, scream and try to remove things. The Center Party is a party that believes in the power of organisations and companies in the transition. There are measures that need and must be implemented. Then it is self-evident for us to be a party that takes responsibility, that corrects errors and ensures that we reduce emissions. That is why we have also concluded the January agreement. It has been nonsense from the government – from the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The m we have now removed. We're making support systems more efficient. It is no longer possible to get money for information, group therapy and other things. Rightly designed, climate policy is a profit for Sweden. That is why it is important that resources are put here. When Årjängstravet converts from oil to biofuels, it uses the Värmland forest instead of the Russian oil. When Lund's sanitation plant removes methane gas from landfills, it reduces emissions, while at the same time it can be used to drive buses. It is smart politics that makes a difference here and now, and that has actually also received support from the Climate Centre. Criticism also starts from the norm that there are other things that are more effective, and it does. You could increase the CO2 tax up to the skies, but this leads to other problems that the Swedish National Audit Office chooses to ignore. Politically, the biggest critics of climate change are those who do not increase the CO2 tax but, on the contrary, lower it. You have to choose which foot you want to stand on. Either you have to criticise efficiency and thus find other solutions or you have to find a solution to the problems that have been encountered. The benefits of setting emission reductions elsewhere are certainly high in the climate area. But then you miss all the fantastic opportunities that exist here in Sweden. It is the Swedish countryside that sits on the solution and has the conditions for changing. The winners of this conversion are those who have the forest, water, wind and manure for biogas and have already built the infrastructure for the electric car. It is a great mistake to put the problems on somewhere else and pay some indulgences. When we move the problems elsewhere and try to get someone else to solve our problems, we miss the fact that we can reduce our dependence on oil from Russia. One of the great security gains we can make is to take action in Sweden, to increase self-sufficiency and stop sending money to Putin's army or to the Communist dictatorship in Venezuela, as we do every time we go to the gas station and thoughts. At the same time, it is good nutrition policy for Sweden. We get new companies, new innovations and new export opportunities that allow other countries to follow what we do, because it is true that Swedish emissions are only a blip on the curve and barely that. We need to be forerunners. Then we need to do things that the United States, India and China also want to do, because being leaders is going ahead and getting others to follow. In fact, this is also a health policy. With more electric cars on the streets we get reduced noise and reduced particle emissions, and with less oil in the system får we are also less mercury problems and sulphur problems – things that make a difference here and now in Sweden. Making the climate life more efficient has therefore been a stickhorse for the Center Party. It was incredibly important to deal with the problems that have been, because we take responsibility. We change and improve for reduced emissions and to take Sweden forward.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-652	Madam President, I would like Thank you to those of you who have debated this issue so far today! This is my first climate debate in this House. It's nice to be here.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-653	There is resounding applause in the well-filled Chamber of the Swedish Parliament today. I was actually a little surprised by how the climate debate started here earlier. I do not know if you, listening to the debate, noted that the Swedish Democrats were up and saying that climate change is one of the challenges of our time. Then they equated the climate issue with care queues, poverty and war. Madam President, I would like It's just that those who are poor in the world are the hardest hit by climate change. What drives the war of the future is climate change, and it is quite difficult to have a functioning welfare if we do not have a climate to live in. Madam President, I would like It is surprising that there are still parties in the Swedish Parliament that are ralliing over the climate in the way that the Swedish Democrats did and who then leave the hall in order not to be here and defend themselves. Now to the question. It goes without saying that the climate issue is the major challenge of our time. Solving it will require long-term vision, innovation, research and technology development. It will require entrepreneurs and enterprising people who drive green growth and the green economy and ensure that we get tools to reset and that Sweden becomes competitive and can export its innovations to the rest of the world so that it can also switch. Our politics, industry and research need to be world leaders. Madam President, I would like To achieve this, instruments such as taxes are needed for things that are bad for the climate and investments in things that are good for the climate. There is a need for radical emission reductions, and we cannot do that if we just sit back. With politics, we need to show in what direction we want society to develop, and that is a green, sustainable society. We are changing to both release less and cope with the changes that are, unfortunately, inevitable. Liberals have criticized the Climate Scene. As the Center Party said, a lot of climate policy went in the right direction during the time of the Alliance. Emissions dropped, and we made several reforms that pushed green technology development. Then we had four years with a government that was not as good for the climate. Since we have criticized Climate Change, we are pleased that the Swedish National Audit Office and the Institute of Economic Development have also criticized it and share much of our criticism. The review by the Swedish National Audit Office, which today's debate is about, confirms much of the criticism that the Liberals have brought forward in the years that we have not been involved in governing Sweden. Madam President, I would like I am also pleased that we see clear impressions of the Liberals in the budget presented under the January agreement. Now it is no longer just the S and the MPs who run the country, but they must negotiate with the Liberals, who have brought about important changes. The Center Party referred to some of these changes, and it is clear in the budget bill that Climate Change will be reviewed and changed with a start in the criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office and the Institute of Economic Development have put forward. Unlike the last parliamentary term when climate policy did not go so well – let us be honest with that – we are now looking with the negotiating capacity of the Liberals to make climate change a more efficient, better and bigger step on the road to a climate policy for Sweden's transformation. There will be more innovation, technology development, research and green entrepreneurship. As a result, Sweden can be the world's leading force needed. I am pleased that the Swedish National Audit Office has confirmed and shared much of the Liberals' criticism, but I am also pleased that we have now made a change in the policy of the Social Democrats and the Green Party.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-664	Madam President, I would like I was going to take this opportunity to compare some different instruments. We are talking about efficiency, which is why I wanted to explain what measures, according to the national economy, lead to the least loss of welfare. This is the measure to look at when comparing different measures, i.e. which measure creates the fastest possible change with the least possible loss of welfare. There are three different measures. In the first place, taxes and emissions trading, which research says is by far the most effective. In second place, subsidies, as research says, can be effective but not as effective as taxes. In third place comes administrative measures, which according to research is the least effective. These may be pure bans or different types of phasing-out laws and the like. This is accepted. It is simply the case that different types of measures are different in effectiveness, in accordance with this order of precedence. The Green Party is the only party in this House that stands up for the first measure, that is, that it should cost to release and that we should use taxes to fundamentally change society. However, we believe that subsidies and administrative measures will also be required, as there is a need for popular support for policy. Madam President, I would like The Kafka is the party that chooses to upset the less effective measures and at the same time does everything in its power to destroy the most effective ones. The Moderates say the government spends billions on the climate while they themselves spend billions on ruining the climate. More precisely, the Moderates want to reduce emissions tax by 7 billion, and, as I said, tax is the most effective measure. The Moderates therefore want to put a stop to the most effective way of reducing emissions, while at the same time choosing in this House and in other contexts to criticise the other types of measures. We are therefore dealing with a type of double Kafkasmucka, where the Moderates try to demolish the climate policy that Sweden has and that Sweden is repeatedly praised for internationally. Let me zoom in on subsidies, because I find it particularly interesting. There are two different subsidies. The first focuses on low-hanging fruits and is by its nature such that it will reduce the additionality of the measures. If you focus on low - hanging fruits, you will happen to have some fruit that had been picked anyway. The second subsidy is for large technological leaps. It does not miss things that had been done anyway but will be less accurate. Both of these subsidies have their drawbacks, but we believe that both are needed. If you read the studies that have been carried out on the Climate Scene, it is clear that some measures had been taken anyway but that the majority had not been taken. In addition, we want the industrial life of the measures dealing with major technological leaps. We believe that this is needed in order to gain acceptance of climate policy. It's about doing it together all over the country. Let me be a little more specific about climate change. In general, it is an effective measure, as the Swedish National Audit Office points out in its report. There have also been other evaluations of WSP, Konjunkturinstitutet and others. There are, of course, challenges to climate change. We have identified some of them and are in the process of making changes to climate change. We have asked the responsible authority, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, to report how this can be done more effectively. It is a work in progress and, among other things, we are now removing initiatives that are not aimed at physical measures. What are we dealing with? Around our country, thousands of climate measures are being taken. During the last four years, Sweden has received at least 30,000 charging points – compared to 2,000 charging points during the eight years of the Alliance. It's a huge increase. There are biogas tanks, and we have biogas production around the country that takes advantage of the residual waste from agriculture, which creates jobs and double climate benefits. The latest in biogas is particularly exciting, Madam President. It's about liquid biogas, and it's incredibly exciting. The industry says that 50 liquid biogas filling stations are being built. This will be of fundamental importance for us to be able to reverse heavy transport. When the industry is asked why they do this, they answer that it is because they get support for it. It wouldn't have happened if the Climate Tree hadn't been there. All in all, all efforts lead to a reduction of 1 540 000 tonnes, and only the measures that have been taken so far. It is therefore substantial emission reductions that we are dealing with thanks to these efforts. Then we must once again bring the debate back to what we should have instead. If, like the Moderates, you want to take away all the money and make drastic draconian cuts in the environmental budget, what are we going to do instead? What it seems to be doing now, and which is some form of diversion, is taking money from aid, from poor countries, and spending it on filling up the environmental budget. That is, of course, cheating. It is quite meagre, I would even say courageously, of the Moderates to refer to international climate credits. DN has carried out a thorough review of this in recent weeks and concluded that it is a complete air castle. Only 2% of international credit leads to real emission reductions. If you want to talk about effective climate policy, you probably have to go home and do your homework. Well, the government is investing billions in both the climate and industrial life. We also maintain high environmental taxes and raise them further, something that the Alliance Government gave up in its eight years. The major differences in Swedish climate policy today are here – those who push for change versus those who want to dismantle the overall climate work. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-682	Madam President, I would like Lorentz Tovatt has high tails on the climate issue. Despite the fine rhetoric, emissions increased by 2% last year, and before that, emissions reductions were flattened out. This is the Green Party's climate statement: increased emissions. Lorentz Tovatt talked about the alliance government. He is happy to do so, because when the Moderates were in and led the government, emissions were reduced by 20 percent. Madam President, I would like Lorentz Tovatt asked, perhaps rhetorically, what to do instead, if the Moderates now want to remove the Climate Tree. It's almost like the Green Party is asking the Moderates for advice on what policies they should pursue in terms of climate. We'd be happy to advise on that. The Moderates think we should invest in electrification. We also do this in the budget – we are spending 1.5 billion on electrification. The Moderates also think that we should invest in a CCS strategy so that we can get to carbon storage here in Sweden and capture the emissions that the base industry, for example, represents. The Green Party is happy to copy and copy it. It is only good if there is political agreement on this. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I have to ask Mr Lorentz: how do the government and the Green Party, and now also the Member of Parliament, defend the fact that, as emissions increase, they still choose to spend 2 billion on a measure that has been deemed ineffective?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-686	Madam President, I would like It is just as well that we sort this out with the emissions. It is absolutely true that emissions are not reducing enough. I am the first to say that we need to do more, and that is also why the government is doing much more than the opposition. The opposition does the opposite and reduces climate and environmental taxes. What should be said about emissions, just so you understand what you talk about when it comes to them, is that the Environmental Protection Agency, when we took over power, said that we have a huge emission gap and that we will not be able to meet our goals. It was a debt that we inherited from the Alliance government. Then we have introduced a radical environmental policy. We have the change of fuel, we have bonuses – malus, we have increased environmental taxes, we have a tripled environmental budget and so on. When the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency now produces its forecasts, they say that they see that the gap is narrowing. Given the policy that the government is pushing through, in contrast to the opposition and to the then alliance government, we are approaching the climate goals now, but of course we shall do more than that. When it came to budget bullying and digitizing, Louise Meijer talked about electrification and that sort of thing. What you do cleanly is total and draconianly cut back on the environmental budget, and then you come up with a few small investments that you make. We all know here that climate change has led to 30,000 charging points. These are the ones that the Moderates want to remove, and then they come up with their own mini bet on the side. I would like to come back to this incredibly important point to which Louise Meijer cannot really answer, and that is: if you criticise efficiency, why choose to completely destroy the most effective instrument, the CO2 tax?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-691	Madam President, I would like I can also begin my speech by making certain corrections. What is to be understood is that the Moderates spend more money on Category 20 The climate than the government does. There is a negligible difference with 3 million more, but there is more. Lorentz Tovatt mentioned earlier that the climate life has led to 30 000 charging poles. Yes, that's right, but only 8,000 of these have been public. It's just public charging poles we need. Mr Lorentz also mentioned that DN has reported that the mechanisms for global emission reductions under the Kyoto Protocol have failed. Yes, that is also true, but the Swedish Energy Agency has evaluated the Swedish projects and shown that they have been effective. My question to Lorentz Tovatt remains. Climate change is by far the biggest effort the government is making to reduce emissions. This must mean, according to logic, that it is also the climate life that will lead to the greatest emission reductions, at least according to a red-green logic. Then I have to ask: Does Lorentz Tovatt think that climate change will lead to our reaching our climate targets, which we are currently far from achieving, under the red-green government?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-694	Madam President, I would like I do not think that climate change alone leads us to reach our climate targets. That is precisely why I say that we need other measures too. That is precisely why we need environmental taxes in particular. First of all, to go back to the environmental budget, Madam President, what the Moderates are doing is not very attractive. The first thing to do is to reduce aid in a draconian way. In addition, we want to remove a lot from the climate and environmental budget. In addition to the reduction in aid, you move some money from there to the environmental budget, and you make it appear that you spend as much as the government. Those who hear this statement understand what it is about: it is numerically confusing. We can put this aside and note that it is not very neat. It is also the poorest who are most affected by climate change. So it takes money from the poorest to reduce the climate budget. It's just not good. Then there is what I did not get an answer to and which I think is important, namely that as a political party you have as your most important critical point of departure in a question that something should be based on efficiency. In my speech, I reviewed the effectiveness of different types of measures according to research. It is quite clear that taxes are the most effective. Then there are the challenges of taxes, especially that they may not always be so popular. We believe that we need taxes, but we also need other things. If the most important point of view from one party is that one should have as effective a policy as possible and then one chooses to ruin that part of the policy that is most effective and continues to criticise the other, how does it go together? How does it logically work to say that you should have an effective climate policy and then that you should ruin what is most effective? For me, this doesn't work. Moderate logic doesn't make sense.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-699	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Lorentz a question out of curiosity. The parliamentary year 2016/ 17 there was an announcement that we would invest in a green sour cream, i.e. a strategic climate project that would speed up the permit process when industries wanted to switch to a more environmentally friendly business. So this was something that the government did not support, so it became an announcement. In the Government's letter 2018 19:75, which deals with announcements, we can read about this particular point. It says that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been commissioned to present a model for how to report statistics on environmental permit trials. Since then, the County Administrative Boards and the National Court of Justice in February and March 2018 have presented additional assignments in regulatory letters for 2018 on how they can contribute to a coherent statistical report on environmental testing. A little further down, we can read that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has been given a new task to prepare so that from 2021 onwards the agency can be responsible for receiving, compiling, analysing and presenting the statistics that other authorities have provided. Thus, in letter 75, the government only writes about statistics and how to handle statistical data. However, we agree that climate change is urgent and that we have to do things that are effective, as we have talked about both. One such thing is to speed up the trial process for strategic climate projects, on which we have an announcement from the Riksdag. On the basis of letter 75, I cannot see that something like this has happened, despite the announcement. It is only a question of collecting statistics. Can Lorentz Tovatt tell me what's actually happening? And if the government does not intend to do anything with this – why?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-703	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for the question! It may not be entirely linked to this subject, but I will still answer it because I think it is important and relevant. A little over a year ago, I myself wrote a motion in which one of the sayings was that the Climate Act should permeate all relevant legislation. One of the points of the January Agreement is precisely that wording. Now we're about to set up an investigation to look at it. I don't think it's necessary for me to end up in a green sour cream, because it can be quite difficult to know what should be green, but at least that the investigator is asked to look at how we can land right when important interests are against each other. How can we land more reasonable and smarter than what we might be doing today if, for example, a wind farm is against another valuable interest? As I said, we will look at that in this investigation. So we are going to do this in the future. While Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson is still standing up here in the speaker's chair, I take the opportunity to send back a question. The Christian Democrats have had a policy in recent years and this year too, based on the fact that the environmental budget is being cut very much. At the same time, there have been criticisms that some efforts would not be effective enough. Then I wonder: Why do you choose to pull down? Why do you not choose to invest in what you think is more effective? Do the Christian Democrats think that we invest too much in the climate in general? Is that what this is about? Or do the Christian Democrats think that it is better if you simply do not invest in the climate?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-707	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to hear that Mr Lorentz wants to address this issue. But this was the Parliamentary Session 2016/ 17. Now we are at the Parliamentary Session 2019/ 20, and what was written in letter 75 is only about the collection of statistics and not at all about what the announcement made and which Lorentz Tovatt tells us about here in the speaker's chair. If we want to do something that actually makes a difference, we need to get to it. And as I said in my last speech, we don't have a lot of time. It's urgent. Why, then, is the government waiting and collecting statistics instead of making a workshop out of it? Of course, Lorentz Tovatt, we will invest in environmental and climate-promoting measures that make a difference. There we have different views on what to bet on. For example, I know that Lorentz Tovatt is a champion of trains. We Christian Democrats see that only trains in Sweden do not work. We must also invest in flights. That is why we want to invest in biofuels for aviation and the electrification of aircraft, for example. We've got CCS. We want to collect CO2 and possibly use it for other things or run it down into the bedrock. We have biofuels. The Swedish forest is also very important for our cars. There are many bets we can take up. We can continue the industrial life, an investment that the government has made and which is good, and invest more money in it. A change in the industry is very important. As we last saw on the news either this morning or yesterday morning, including from SSAB, the industry is a major emitter of CO 2, and therefore we have to invest money in it. That's absolutely right. But it must be effective and cost-effective.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-710	Madam President, I would like I thank Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson for the exchange of views. As I said, we are doing this investigation now, and we will see what it lands in. It simply remains to be seen. Madam President, I would like I try to digest that when I ask what the Christian Democrats want to invest in instead, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson answers that he wants to invest in flights. I can't quite understand it. We know that today's flight cannot be driven climate-friendly. It's as simple as that. Those are facts. At some point in the future, we hope it can be possible, but now we know this. But when I ask if you can't invest in something else instead of these reductions Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson answers flight. I don't understand that. It's very contradictory. Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson then brought up some other things – biofuels for aviation, charging infrastructure, CCS and some different things. After all, we are investing in all this. The government has policies in all these areas. My question concerned why the Christian Democrats want to cut back on climate work and why they do not choose to do something else with the money. Does Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson think we spend too much money on the climate? That will be what it means in practice when the Christian Democrats want us to reduce the amount of money we spend on the climate. The question was not what the Christian Democrats have in their budget now. I know that, and much of what is in that budget already has the government. But the government wants to invest more money, and that is why my question focused precisely on this, because the Christian Democrats simply want to reduce a great deal of environmental and climate work. I find that very boring.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-715	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for our reservation to be approved. In recent years, Sweden's growth has almost completely failed. The projections for the development of bnp-per-capita also look bleak – a picture of problems compounded by the economic slowdown already underway, which is apparently likely to increase, and the current trade conflicts on the global market. In other words, for an export-dependent country like Sweden, there are several dark clouds of unrest in the sky. Active commitment from both politics and industry is needed to safeguard the Swedish export capacity. From our side, we therefore believe that the initiative with the regional export centres is basically something positive in order to strengthen Swedish companies' export opportunities throughout the country. At the same time, a constant consideration must be given to Swedish tax funds, whereupon it is of the utmost importance that the initiative generates an adequate added value while private actors are not competed out by the government itself. Having said that, we find it problematic that the Swedish National Audit Office's report lands in the fact that the report by the Swedish Growth Agency and the Government on the activities of the regional export centres only takes place at a basic level and thus does not meet the expectations expressed by the Committee on Economic Affairs regarding the government's performance report in the policy area – although it is of course important, not least from a tax payer's perspective, that the Government Office has effective methods of evaluation. That is why I welcome the announcement to the government that a united committee is proposing linked to precisely improved monitoring and evaluation. There is certainly a great potential for improvement here. Madam President, I would like However, we believe that further improvement potential exists and advocate an investigation into how future regional export advice can be procured by independent actors. Madam President, I would like It is our conviction that there are regional and national organisations as well as companies with good knowledge of export and trade. If they were allowed to procure the regional export advisory services, the same would probably have been driven in a more entrepreneurial spirit and possibly with better results. However, it cannot be established before an investigation has taken place, which is why we are proposing just that. In addition to this, we believe that it is also important that efforts in the field of export promotion should be coordinated with other government efforts so that efforts in the field of export promotion and, for example, those for industry or workers do not move in different directions. Therefore, consideration should also be given to the introduction of national coordination of these funds in order to ensure effective and coordinated export promotion. Hence our reservation in the area.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-724	Madam President, I would like This is a report on the Swedish National Audit Office's report on how the export centres of the regions have succeeded in their mission from the government. It is a united committee that proposes an announcement to the government in response to motion requests concerning the follow-up and evaluation of export promotion measures. The committee says to the government that it should ensure that export promotion measures are regularly evaluated and that government governance is developed so that it is possible to monitor and evaluate the implementation of export promotion measures. The committee also writes to the government that it will work to enable monitoring and evaluation throughout the value chain when it comes to investments in regional export centres. Madam President, I would like With regional export centres, the government wanted to get a door to export information. One concrete goal was that each company would have the right contact with the right administrator within 24 hours. The desired effect was to make more SMEs become international. It is stated in the report that the Swedish Agency for Growth notes, however, that such effects are not easy to demonstrate. Madam President, I would like I can't quite understand where the hard part lies. With regard to the objective of linking SMEs with the right administrators within 24 hours, it is possible to measure this. As far as the desired effect was for SMEs to go on exports, it can also be measured by seeing whether they have done so. For me, it can't be more clear parameters than that. You can ask the people who will contact you if they have received help within 24 hours. It can be checked with an email or phone call, and you can find out if it took 12, 24, 46 hours or more. Then you get statistics on this. In the feedback, a question must also be whether the entrepreneur ended up with the right administrator – yes or no. If the answer is no, we also want to know where the problem lies in order to be able to take action. If you contact the company after a year or whatever you decide to hear how things have gone – are they on export or not? – it is also possible to follow up with a question where the answer is yes, no or that one is working to get out on the export market. U perp follow-up and evaluation are A and O in order to succeed with assignments with the right efforts and get the right impact. We have to follow the government's way forward with a regulatory or policy letter or owner's instructions so that the evidence becomes useful and clearly state what works and what doesn't – what has an effect on export promotion measures. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-3K99uwVbPQN1yDkMhCSqdM	Madam President, I would like I would first of all like to endorse the proposal of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in the report on regional export centres for monitoring and evaluating export promotion measures. When I review the Swedish National Audit Office's report and the government's letter on regional export centres, I am struck by two things. The obvious, of course, is what the government's letter states that there must be a better impact assessment and follow-up of activities. We all agree on this, and it is a good thing that the committee agrees on it. The second thing I am struck by, which has a regional background in this area, is that I see too little how the regional export centres are put into a regional context. Sweden is an export-dependent nation with high innovation capacity, good reputation and a strong business community. With these conditions, the work to promote exports is both wise and correct. I am aware that it is not in the task of the Swedish National Audit Office to carry out an analysis of the entire system, from municipal business units to state authorities. But it is still the case that it is all the interlocking parameters that give rise to the outcome. And then I don't just mean the state actors. The regions are currently investing a considerable amount of resources, directly or indirectly, aimed at strengthening the potential of industry, for example, for increased exports. The strategic interaction between government and state authorities on the one hand and the regions on the other must be improved. I have spoken to a few of the regions, such as the Västra Götaland region and the Kronoberg region, and I have come up with a few things: 中 Strengthen national efforts by better anchoring at regional level. Determine what is going on in the country before new initiatives are developed. 中 Do not build new structures, but use existing initiatives and platforms. The conditions are very different across the country, which is why it is difficult to have a model that will work across Sweden. There is a need for a clearer link with regional development strategies and actions at local and regional level. In the event of greater efforts, it should be ensured that the regions are present from the outset. Strengthen strategic planning and interaction between governments and authorities and regions in order to make better use of resources and to achieve strong and robust promotion efforts. 中 Regional export centres should offer multilingual skills in order to exploit immigrant entrepreneurs' opportunities to connect foreign markets closer to Sweden. 中 Use existing innovation support systems as an exporter of export operations. There are numerous initiatives in the country, and the state overview can better link these initiatives to powerful units internationally. . increase knowledge of free trade agreements; In my opinion, knowledge of, for example, CETA, the EU-Canada agreement, is limited in the country. The Västra Götaland region does, but the government's export promotion issues are not always linked to the regions' internationalisation efforts and growth strategies. The government's efforts sometimes become side-cars to the investments decided by the regions, and the effect will not be optimal. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that I know that the regions are passionate about strengthening the system through a developed dialogue between the regional and national levels. But then you also want to be in the building in some way. I am convinced that a better strategic national – regional collaboration will benefit our companies' export opportunities.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-745	Madam President, I would like We want to say that we agree with the committee's position that the government's letter should be added to the file. We want to clarify what values should permeate the activities of the regional export centres, and that is why we have made a special opinion. There we write that we want the climate issue to permeate all decisions taken in the Riksdag. Therefore, the various promotion measures taken within the regional export centres need to be clearly linked to climate and environment, but also to the feminist foreign policy that the government claims to pursue.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-747	Madam President, I would like On Monday, I made a Brexit tour in my constituency, Västmanland, to hear how the companies have prepared for a possible Brexit. There was great concern about the current trade war and about the fact that several countries signal that they want to introduce more barriers to trade. Several companies also said that they were contacted by Business Sweden, who wanted to hear if they needed help and support to prepare for a possible Brexit. It is one of the tasks of regional export centres. That made me happy to hear it. Because this is exactly how it's supposed to work. We need to make efforts to support exporting companies in their activities. For us Social Democrats, it is of the utmost importance that the whole country can develop and grow. Exporting companies are needed everywhere. There are 1.4 million Swedes who have a job to go to thanks to exports. It creates prosperity and prosperity throughout the country. Last year, exports increased in all regions of Sweden. It was the same in 2017. In addition, there is the largest increase in exports in the smaller counties, such as Gotland, Kronoberg and Blekinge. Half of the growth in exports comes from counties outside the metropolitan regions. I believe that part of the increase is due to regional export centres. That is exactly what the government and we Social Democrats want to achieve. Remember the background to the introduction of regional export centres! These were requests from the companies themselves. They asked that it would be easier to obtain information if you wanted to export and easier to get in touch with various public actors who needed better coordination. Of course, there are things that can get better. Different counties have different conditions at the start of regional export centres, and they work a little differently. We definitely need to screw some in the system. The Swedish National Audit Office's report is a good tool for this. That is why we Social Democrats are behind the announcement. Madam President, I would like The need still exists very much. The State shall contribute to the coordination of public actors. We will pep and inform so that more companies dare to take the step and embark on the international market. Nearly 49 000 companies exported last year. That's great. But many more have export potential, and we must take care of it. In the forthcoming export strategy, sustainability issues will have an even clearer focus. That's good. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and, of course, for the Swedish Democrats' reservation to be rejected. Even more companies must dare to take the step of exporting in order for Sweden to be able to have growth, success, well-being and confidence in the future throughout the country.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-756	Madam President, I would like Equality does not come by itself. There is a need for multifaceted work that is not just about figures, representation and values, but about all that and a little more. The patriarchal structures permeate our society and affect each one of us. It is people who work, who lead and run companies and authorities. No companies or organizations exist in a vacuum, and no one is unaffected by the patriarchal structures. When the Swedish Agency for Growth analyses and presents statistics on women's entrepreneurship in Sweden, we see a big difference both in general and in different industries. In some sectors, only 5% of entrepreneurs are women. In total, about 30% of women are women. These are figures that have stood still for 30 years. In our exercise, we have chosen to raise the bar a little, following the Swedish National Audit Office's report, where clarity is requested and according to organisations' descriptions of the situation and opportunities for female entrepreneurs. We suggest that the Government instructs Almi to create a gender equality plan with clear objectives and targets to be harmonised throughout the organisation. We also suggest that the government should reformulate Almis's mission objectives so that gender equality policy objectives are better reflected. Now our government has chosen to call itself a feminist government. This means taking a clear responsibility on this issue. As I said, the statistics have remained unchanged for many years. This also means that statistics on women who go to the bank and apply for loans to start up a business have not changed. It affects their self-confidence, freedom and ability to create better conditions for themselves. It also affects our society. Of course, more measures are needed than those proposed in our motion. This is far from enough to reverse the trend. However, by creating a gender equality plan with clear objectives and targets, we can in any case start to reverse the figures in the loan business and ensure that women get access to it. We want the government to show a clear path in this. If the government does, we think others will follow. We have also rejected the reduction the government is doing in its budget around Almi and have therefore added to cover such work.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-763	Madam President, I would like This debate is therefore about the Swedish National Audit Office's report on gender equality in Almis's lending activities. First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal in report NU6 and reject the motions. I would also like to start by pointing out that we agree on the objective of equality, as Lorena Delgado Varas also mentioned. It's the vision of how we get there that separates us. The issue of gender equality in Almis's lending activities may seem to some to be small and of less importance. At the same time, at least for me, it is a deeply ideological issue. As I see it, Social Democracy as a movement is the only true freedom movement in Swedish politics. Basically, it is a desire that all individuals, regardless of their background, should have the chance to choose their own path in life. Hjalmar Branting once expressed it as that everyone must have the chance to realize the longings of their best moods. An equal society is then needed, and then social policy is needed. An important part of the vision of the equal value of all people and thereby the idea that everyone should be able to realize themselves and their own dreams is equality. Our society is fundamentally characterised by a system in which men as a group are superior women. This is expressed by men making more money and taking less responsibility at home. It is also expressed by men's violence against women. It is expressed by the oppression of honour. And it takes the form of discrimination. This standard is a social problem that limits women. Therefore, it is impossible for all freedom-thirsty people to pursue freedom without feminism. What does this have to do with Almis's corporate lending? Well, for many people self-employment is a way to realize themselves. For some, entrepreneurship is tantamount to freedom. On this basis, it is extremely important that men and women have the same opportunity to engage in entrepreneurship. This is actually one of the gender equality objectives that we in Sweden have. That is why, Madam President, the issue of gender equality in Almis's lending activities is extremely important to us Social Democrats. Women's entrepreneurship is very close to our hearts. It is therefore of the utmost importance that we live up to the objective of gender equality policy, which I mentioned, that women and men should have the same opportunities to set up and run businesses. Sometimes, Madam President, in front of the other party, we Social Democrats do not defend female entrepreneurship. The argumentation line usually is that because we are in favour of restrictions on profit withdrawals in welfare companies and do not think that luxury-RUT in the form of private chefs is prioritised, we are against female entrepreneurship. Basically, it's a strange line of thought. This means, of course, thinking that the only sectors where women are supposed to be entrepreneurs are in domestic and health services. The truth is that we Social Democrats love female entrepreneurship. At the same time, however, we know that too few women are still entrepreneurs. Therefore, it is gratifying that one of the conclusions of the Swedish National Audit Office's report is that Almi strives to carry out the task of women's entrepreneurship in a coherent and consistent manner, although the Swedish National Audit Office also points out that there are ambiguities in the reporting back to the Government. Madam President, I would like The work on equal entrepreneurship must, of course, continue. Almi is an important player in this. But when the Swedish National Audit Office makes the observation that there are shortcomings in Almis's reporting, we also know that one way to follow up the mission goals is through ongoing ownership dialogues between government representatives and the company's Chairman and CEO. We know that such ownership dialogue is working well today. At the same time, we Social Democrats have chosen to assist a motion that the government must nevertheless secure reporting from Almi. In addition, the Swedish National Audit Office points out that it is not specified in the owner's instructions how the mission on women's entrepreneurship should be carried out. This is really a fundamental issue in terms of government governance, i.e. how public companies in general and Almi in particular are best governed to meet the goals set. I don't think Almi should be handled differently from other government companies. Nor do I believe that the detailed regulation of our state-owned companies leads to anything good. Rather, reasonable governance is that the objectives are clear, quantifiable and governing. The state-owned companies shall be led by competent and equal boards and CEOs. In this area, the government has been very active since 2014. I am convinced that a clear division of responsibilities is in line with how best to manage state-owned companies. Companies with state ownership as well as privately owned companies shall be governed by the Companies Act as a framework, with the general meeting as the highest decision-making body and with the state as an active owner which, however, does not engage in excessive detailed regulation. Finally, it is the case that the Government is constantly reviewing the objectives of the state companies, and the Government will ensure that Almis's targets are updated within the coming year. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to stress the importance of female entrepreneurship. As I said earlier, I am pleased that the Swedish National Audit Office notes that, Almi strives to carry out the task of women's entrepreneurship in a coherent and consistent way. It goes without saying to us Social Democrats that men and women should have the same opportunities to start and run businesses. That is not the case today, and we will not rest until the objective of equality policy is met. But it is not achieved through detailed regulation of Almi.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-778	Madam President, I would like This matter is a report on the report from the Swedish National Audit Office. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed whether the Government's and Almi Företagspartner AB's work with Almis mission on women's entrepreneurship contributes to meeting the gender equality policy objective of economic equality. The report contains conclusions and recommendations concerning the Government and Almi. The Swedish National Audit Office writes that there is uncertainty in the government's governance and also in Almis's reporting back to the government. They believe that the wording of the mandate in Almis's owner's instructions is in line with the Committee on Economic Affairs' statement that Almi should promote women's entrepreneurship. The Swedish National Audit Office believes that it is unclear whether the mission statement and the related key figures adequately take into account the gender equality policy objectives. The Swedish National Audit Office has found that the accounting of gender for loan applications is unclear and inconsistent. Moreover, such an accounting makes what is written more beneficial than it really is. Madam President, I would like The government has the interim objective of increasing opportunities for women to start and run businesses and believes that this should be taken into account in Almis's mission goals. Therefore, it is extremely strange that the state-owned company has reported statistics that do not follow the accounting of gender. For me, statistics will undoubtedly be dependable and Almi for reliable statistics. It is these statistics, whatever the reality, that we should be able to use to make political decisions and take possible action. Therefore, the work and follow-up A and O are for political decisions and for those in Sweden who further use the statistics as a basis. I support the committee's proposal.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-782	Madam President, I would like I forgot to say that I am in favour of our reservation.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-783	Madam President, I would like It is now a little more than three years since the energy agreement was concluded between five parties of the Riksdag. The Swedish Democrats are one of the parties that chose to stand outside. Now we have reached the first checkpoint for the same. The agreement has, of course, been hailed by the parties involved as a blessing. They said they had a product that would last for a very long time. However, as in many other contexts, it quickly became apparent that there were at least two different interpretations of the document agreed upon. This fact alone should be a serious understatement. It was not even possible to agree on what was actually agreed, even though it was written. This really accentuates the importance of the criticism we have made, namely that the compromises entered into in the energy agreement are directly destructive, since the starting point is very far apart. The desire to reach an agreement has nevertheless been stronger, which has led to several contradictions being incorporated into the agreement. These jeopardise the overall goal of Swedish energy policy. What has happened since the conclusion of the agreement that would be a turning point for Swedish energy policy? Recent newspaper headlines include the following:
i-3moqvmF8wNPWQncnXzDisA	中 New Technology: a lack of power will be the most difficult
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-789	中 VLT :中 400 companies are concerned about the electricity shortage – one in four may be forced to terminate employees
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-791	This is a development that is now leading to the same problems that exist in many other developing countries. It is still the case that many politicians clearly find it difficult to distinguish between energy and effect. The annual power balance report published this summer states that the power balance continues to deteriorate. According to the forecast for the coming winter, we will have a deficit of nearly 1,000 megawatts for a normal winter, which means that the deficit has more than doubled in one year. At the turn of the year, Vattenfall plans to close the Ringhals 2 reactor and in the coming year also close Ringhals 1. It is clear that this increases the risk of lack of efficacy. Madam President, I would like There is nothing in the current agreement that is moving in the direction of countering the developments we are now seeing with problems in coping with the supply of electricity in the winter. Major urban regions are experiencing an increasing shortage of electricity driven by insufficient transmission capacity, while local electricity generation is disappearing. This development is directly detrimental to Sweden. We risk slowing down or totally hindering the development of society that we want. It is about being able to electrify the transport sector in order to reduce our fossil dependence, to be able to produce fossil-free steel using hydrogen, to enable housing construction and to enable new companies to establish themselves. Therefore, from our point of view, it is most urgent to welcome all fossil-free energy sources. There is a need for a new parliamentary inquiry to be set up to review the long-term energy supply. Unfortunately, in this report we are alone in this view. One of the proposals we made in our reservation in the Energy Commission's final report was that there should be an objective of security of supply. The background is that no special authority is responsible for the same today. Instead, responsibility for security of supply is divided into a number of different roles and actors, which naturally creates uncertainties and risks of inefficiency. We regard it as a weak policy. It can be assumed that everyone's responsibility is nobody's responsibility. Unfortunately, this proves to be very fair in energy policy. Fortunately, however, the energy policy work in Parliament has not stood still. This proposal for a target for security of supply could be voted through in the Riksdag during the previous Parliamentary Session. Today there is such an announcement on the table of the government. Madam President, I would like Some of the parties to the agreement have now become increasingly aware that in the future we will probably still need planned power generation through, for example, nuclear power or increased competitiveness for cogeneration. Nuclear power has also been one of the water components of those who interpret the Energy Agreement. What was actually agreed on regarding the future of nuclear power in Sweden? One side obviously has the view that it has been agreed to phase out nuclear power to the full through a 100% renewable target. On the other hand, in its interpretation, it insists that the subsequent words emphasise that this does not mean a ban on nuclear power. This, too, is a fundamental reason why the Swedish Democrats could not support the current energy agreement, where it cannot be clearly stated that it is fossil freedom that we want to achieve and that nuclear power should be given a clearer and more given role in the future energy system in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Here too, it is gratifying that the Riksdag has taken initiatives beyond the Energy Agreement; it has voted for Sweden to invest more long-term in research and development of nuclear energy and has also addressed such an announcement to the Government. However, given the lack of clarity about one of our energy policy objectives, an immediate adjustment should be made to the question of fossil freedom. Unfortunately, in this report, we are once again the only party to propose a target of 100% fossil-free. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to endorse the reservation contained in the report.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-802	Madam President, I would like We are dealing with the NU report of the Committee on Economic Affairs7. I call for the motion to be rejected with reference to Parliament's 2018 decision on energy policy objectives and the orientation of energy policy. I support the committee's proposal that the Parliament should add the Government's letter to the file. Every four years, a control station shall be implemented to follow up the energy agreement. This letter is of limited scope, as the work on control posts started in autumn 2018. At the back of the letter is a summary of the status of a number of measures. I can see that much has been done or started. These include, for example, the phasing out of the thermal power tax. These include reduced property tax, modern environmental requirements for hydroelectric power and the extension and extension of the electricity certification system. An implementation team shall continuously monitor the energy agreement. In terms of the target figure, 100 percent renewable electricity production in 2040, there are positive signs. For example, the IEA highlights Sweden as a global leader in this matter. Renewable electricity generation has increased and in the coming years the expansion is expected to continue to grow at a rapid pace. After that, the expansion is more uncertain. However, much suggests that there are conditions for the share of renewable electricity production in 2040 to reach 100%. Developments need to be followed, of course. We also need to be very careful about the conditions for electricity generation in peak load situations. The energy efficiency target – 50% more efficient energy use by 2030 – is challenging. Uncertainty is relatively high and depends, among other things, on the development of the GDP. Here too continuous follow-up is needed. If necessary, we must be able to take action at the right time. A number of initiatives are under way to improve the situation by 2030. The energy stage and the implementation of the EU Directive on energy efficiency are such. The Swedish electricity market works well. Among other things, industry has competitive prices, and transmission capacity to neighbouring countries is high in a European comparison. Electricity generation also generates very low greenhouse gas emissions. Sweden still has an electricity system with high security of supply, but there are challenges, as previously mentioned. Electricity networks at all levels need to be used efficiently and developed in line with the increasing electrification of society. It is good that the government intends to continue to promote – and remove barriers to – demand response and seize the opportunities of digitalisation. In Sweden, investments in core networks have increased sharply. In the coming years, we are talking about 3 to 5 billion per year. At regional and local level, many traders, electricity grid companies and municipalities face challenges in terms of capacity shortages. In many parts of the country, the power take-off ceiling is reached, which risks hindering new investments and growth. Swedish power networks and network companies are responsible for the efficient development and use of the electricity network. The Government is following the matter closely and has instructed the Swedish Energy Market Inspectorate to shorten the processing times. In a European perspective, Swedish industry has low electricity prices. It is important that Swedish industry continues to have competitive prices. In a European perspective, however, electricity prices for Swedish households are slightly higher than average due to high network charges and taxes. The next inspection post should be completed in 2023. The follow-up of energy policy objectives and the development of the electricity market should be developed through better interaction between authorities in order to create scenarios and indicators. Madam President, I would like Finally, the energy agreement on 100% renewable electricity generation provided the long-term and security required for large investments. Svensk Vindenergi has compiled investment decisions and announced projects in wind power since the Energy Agreement was concluded. It is a total of over 80 billion in wind power that is already in operation or is expected to be put into operation until the end of 2021. In addition to climate benefit and early achievement, wind power also contributes with a lot of other things. It is about property tax, energy tax of many billions, thousands of jobs both in the construction phase and when the works are to be operated, and production also generates low electricity costs. This should be taken into account when making cross-party agreements. This security has created a great opportunity for us to change.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-815	Madam President, I would like In the speech made by Mr Engström, he highlighted the energy policy objectives set out in the Energy Agreement. One focuses on energy efficiency. It has been designed to assume that one looks at primary energy. It does not take into account the energy used. There, the Swedish Democrats were the only ones to have that objection that such a goal, which is of course good, should focus on the use of energy and not on primary energy. The disadvantage is that the energy sector is also included. This applies, for example, to district heating, cogeneration and nuclear power. It'll be a disadvantage. If you shut down nuclear power, district heating or cogeneration, it will be an energy efficiency measure. Somewhere here I would like to ask the honourable Member whether the Social Democrats regard it as an energy efficiency measure to close, for example, nuclear power, district heating or cogeneration.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-818	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Bäckström Johansson, for the question! No, that's the answer.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-819	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a very clear answer. Actually, I don't think there are any differences of opinion. But it's very unfortunate when you pick up the energy sector. What should be assumed is that we do not want any losses or energy that is not used to make sense. Perhaps the biggest loss is the engines in the transport sector. There, electrification would mean that we can make a significant contribution to significantly higher energy efficiency. It is unfortunate when you design the targets and include elements that are needed at the same time in the climate transition to ensure that we have a robust and stable electricity supply. The second objective that I was going to ask is linked to this with 100% renewable. In environmental work as a whole, it is otherwise a question of fossil freedom. But in energy policy it has been added that it should be 100% renewable. The watershed is there, in fact, nuclear power. Somewhere the question becomes what is most important in the end. Is it that we are fossil-free and have as low emissions as possible, or is it most important that it is renewable but that we can have higher emissions? There are individual renewable energy sources that have higher CO2 emissions per kilowatt hour than nuclear energy, for example. Here, at least for the Swedish Democrats, it is important that we strive for fossil freedom and that we can achieve as low emissions as possible. But obviously there is no problem elsewhere that emissions can be higher just because they are renewable. The question to the honourable Member is: should it not be more urgent to focus on reducing emissions in such cases?
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-824	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Mattias. I'll try to answer for a little longer. I realize for myself that the previous answer was short. I understand that the honourable Member is most interested in nuclear energy. It's about as politicians painting themselves into a corner of what's going on in 20 years' time. I don't know if that's particularly wise. I like the wording that it is not a political decision to close nuclear power. It's just balanced. I wish I had a splinter. You could do a lot of things then. If nothing else, we could move into the future with regard to energy policy. Both Mattias Bäckström Johansson and I would like to be able to do so, but it is quite difficult. 100% renewable and no political decision to shut down nuclear power. It is well-balanced and a wise formulation. Those who made the agreement put quite a lot of thought into it, and I support it 100%.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-828	Madam President, I would like Households and companies in Sweden should be able to count on a secure electricity supply. It sounds almost banally simple. In all its simplicity, energy policy can be summed up in just that way. It's supposed to be a secure power supply. If we back up the band for a few years to around 2015 there were serious threats to nuclear power in Sweden. It was a combination of very low electricity prices, a high nuclear tax and the need for large investments to meet new demands for safety that landed in the fact that nuclear power was there and then very unprofitable. Sweden was faced with a situation in which, in the course of a five-year period, all nuclear power had to be effectively shut down. It was about 40 per cent of Swedish electricity production. In addition, S and MP had, shortly before, worsened the situation by further substantially increasing the nuclear tax. This is about the same thing that has now been done with cogeneration in the more acute and local problems. I mention this because the situation with regard to nuclear power was the starting point and much for the main reason that negotiations between political parties which then landed in an agreement were in progress at all. It was an agreement that was about securing nuclear power there and then, protecting and developing hydropower and providing a focus on the conditions for investing in new renewable energy. I believe it was right for us and the Moderates to conclude that agreement back then, 2016. If this had not happened, we would have had serious problems in Sweden. The decisions have also contributed to historically large investments in, in particular, new renewable energy. Madam President, I would like It's been a while since then. The reality is a little different now than it was then. Much of the energy policy debate now revolves around such a thing as the serious local electricity problems. For example, several companies in southern Sweden cannot grow as they want and wish because the electricity system is simply not enough. Remarkably, in the short term, this has been exacerbated by the fact that the government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, has put forward proposals on taxes on local electricity production which have led to the closure of just such electricity production. Local electricity problems did not exist in this way in 2016. This is an example of an area where concrete action is now required. We have proposed that part of the taxation that exists on this should be removed. More will be required of flexible customers. I believe that the government will be forced to develop a crisis package to solve the situation in Stockholm and Skåne and that it imposes locally procured power reserves in the Malmö area, for example. I also believe that the government will be forced to discuss how to deal with foreign relations. In practice, it is about limiting Swedish electricity exports because the local power situation is what it is. I do not rule out the need to take such measures, but that is remarkable in a serious situation. Taxes are first introduced for environmental reasons. It closes production and exacerbates the local power position. In the end, the situation may be that electricity grid customers will have to pay for the Government's emergency package. Exports are stopped, and from chimneys in Germany and Poland, carbon dioxide is ultimately sprayed out. Note that in the existing agreement there is nothing about the local capacity problems. Another area under discussion is the electricity market model, where we, as customers today, pay per kilowatt hour. I believe, however, that most people agree that we will have a surplus of electricity and that the challenge is about power and system services. Then we think it is reasonable to raise a discussion if, in the long term, we can have a different model, a model that rewards what will be a flaw, that is, effect and system service. The conditions for electricity generation are another area, long-term energy target another one. So for the Moderates, the situation is that it was right to conclude the agreement and the agreement in 2016. Since then, things have happened. The agreement we signed does not correspond to what all the experts are actually pointing out at the moment, and that is why we want to see an updated energy policy. That is why we from the Moderates, Madam President, have first presented ourselves and then together with the Christian Democrats both in substance and in form how to invite parties to negotiations. We have presented lists of what we mean to be input values and content in an updated energy agreement that takes place where the existing, in practice almost fully implemented, exists. There are nine points in a list that we have left. It is about objectives and the existing nuclear power. It is about research into nuclear power and other areas and an impact study that looks at the network issue and the stability of the entire energy system. It is about a number of European issues and the view of subsidies. Last and lastly, this is also about such an important thing as the role of cogeneration in the Swedish electricity and energy system. Madam President, I would like The Moderates remain prepared to take responsibility in an updated energy agreement if the content is reasonable and correct. But that also presupposes that the government can meet us in negotiations in the near future where we take this forward. Households and businesses should be able to count on security of electricity and energy supply, and we want to continue to be involved in taking responsibility for this.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-842	Madam President, I would like On 10 June 2016, the Energy Agreement on Swedish energy policy was concluded between the parties involved. So now we have the control station on the table. The basic starting point was to build the policy of combining three pillars: security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability. These are the basic starting points for energy policy. A major gain resulting from the 2016 agreement was the abolition of the thermal power tax, the so-called ‘power tax'. It was harmful to Swedish nuclear power production and was abolished the turn of the year 2017/ 18. The tax represented 20 per cent of production costs and put pressure on the competitiveness of nuclear power. At present, the Energy Agreement does not have very many reforms, while the challenges and problems are considerable. The impact challenge is great, and it is adversely affected not least if the planned production disappears. Sweden faces a negative balance of power already this winter. During the peak load hour of a normal winter, the deficit will be 1 000 megawatts and over 2 000 at a 10-year winter. The balance of power will continue to deteriorate the following years. Madam President, I would like We have a future that requires large amounts of clean electricity and increased power. A prerequisite for meeting the needs of the climate and society in general is extensive electrification and digitalisation. We are talking about increased use of electricity from the current 126 terawatt hours to up to 200 terawatt hours. Analyses and report after report show in the same direction. Then we need all clean energies. This also requires stability in production, and it requires delivery-proof and weather-independent power. Our unique energy mix has given us competitive advantages. These must be nurtured, and we should be proud of our energy mix. The electricity system is already in a more or less acute situation in parts of our country. Weaknesses are at risk later on in more places. We see how business start-ups are stopped or postponed, particularly in southern Sweden, as has been said on a number of occasions here today. But reforms are lacking. It is no secret that we Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, have highlighted proposals to face these problems. We believe that a new investigation is needed with the aim of a new, up-to-date agreement or a Commission that will safeguard supply in the future. It is about reviewing the impact situation, for example how the market can be adjusted so that it also rewards the delivery of power and the necessary system services that make the system work. Nuclear power and other planned types of energy are not being replaced for this today. It is about ensuring rapid expansion of the electricity grid, including through shorter processes. The online concession investigation has made a proposal, but there is reason to look further at how it can be taken forward to deal with the problem of shorter processes. We have also put forward a roadmap for fourth generation nuclear power and research in the nuclear field as well as working together with other countries to standardise nuclear power plants and components in order to shorten times and reduce prices. Above all, we want to press for life-long extensions of nuclear power to come into place. Here we have previously raised the issue of Ringhals 1 and 2. This affects southern Sweden, and a quick investigation should be carried out to get all the facts on the table and review the possibilities for continued operation. In view of the lack of capacity in large cities and the importance of planned power generation, competitive conditions must also be provided for local production via cogeneration. Now this trend is moving in the opposite direction. As I said, there are not many reforms left in the existing agreement. At the same time, we see that the challenges and problems ahead are great.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-854	Madam President, I would like The Centre Party has been the only party to all energy agreements. We do this because we know that it is good for Sweden with a long-term perspective and because we are prepared to take responsibility – enter into compromises when necessary but also point out the direction. The energy agreement 2016 was a piece of Swedish political history. It brought together 75 per cent of Parliament behind a united line on the energy issue. At last, the long-term, stable rules of play and conditions for the energy industry were given which they had talked about for so long. They cheered, and they still do. They want the current energy agreement. It is said in agreement. It is felt that this gives the conditions you want, both if you want to extend nuclear energy life or build new ones and also to build new, renewable power. Every year in the last few years and the next few years, new wind power equivalent to half a nuclear reactor is being built – every year! The 2016 Energy Agreement is based on what the Alliance did in 2009. It is free to build new nuclear power for those who want to if they do so on market terms. At the same time, there was also an end to the Barsebäck policy, which closed things with political button presses. It has created peace and faith in the future. The commitment and growing strength of wind power are now being made on market terms. It is perhaps the first time in Swedish history that new energy production is now being built in market terms. Hydro power got government loans. When nuclear power was expanded, it received various types of support. For example, direct electricity was subsidised. Wind and biopower have historically received electricity certificates. It is a system that we do not need now, and then we will of course close it immediately. This is one of the few things left on the to-do list along with the abolition of the offshore wind connection fee. Then – but only after – it is time to address new challenges. I share the view of, for example, Moderates and Christian Democrats that there are challenges to be addressed. The capacity issue in cities and on Gotland is urgent. It does not help new nuclear power or new wind power, unless it is built centrally in the cities. It is more about efficiency improvements, flexibility and shorter lead times in licensing processes for network expansion. All these issues are keen to move forward and continue to change, improve and develop in the agreement. It's in the investigation that we're going to do this. If more people want to join us, Madam President, that is welcome. If you want to sign up for 1.0 and work on for a 2.0 on the energy agreement, it is welcome if we can get even greater involvement in this House and stability. I would also like to highlight the regulation of electricity networks. It is an incredibly unsexy and complicated issue, but it is also incredibly important. We are really only talking about the return on the network companies when we should instead be talking about how to get regulation that makes us use the network smarter, that allows us to dampen the power peaks that lead to some companies not having access to electricity and being able to develop. We are getting caught up in a discussion that looks back on yesterday's regulation rather than taking height and aiming forward. Anyone who really wants to protect Swedish competitiveness and Swedish industry, together with the environment and consumer wallets, does best to stop trying to point out which technology to use but instead focus on what problems are in front of us. We have had the debate on nuclear power versus renewables for 40 years. It's time to leave it behind – the whole energy industry has done so. Technology development shows incredible opportunities and how many alternative solutions exist that are better, less vulnerable and environmentally sustainable. The fact that we can phase out Russian uranium at the same time does not make things worse. I'm looking at a negotiation – and I hope it comes – where we can leave these things to one side and actually focus on the real problems. They're here now. Any current discussion about leaving energy agreements and identifying certain types of energy as particularly desirable, whether or not they solve problems, creates uncertainty. This uncertainty costs in Swedish competitiveness and in higher electricity prices that consumers have to pay. The bill for political uncertainty I will not take on my conscience but will burden the parties that create uncertainty. Instead, listen to the energy industry and don't try to fix what's not broken.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-867	Madam President, I would like The Left Party supports the committee's proposal that the Parliament should put the letter to the vote and reject the motion brought by the Swedish Democrats. The Left Party has chosen not to be part of the Energy Agreement, and there are several reasons for this. Among other things, the agreement lacked an end date for nuclear power, and it opened the way for the construction of new reactors. The agreement also meant a abolished tax on thermal power – we have heard reasons for that, where I can agree – and a reduction in the property tax for hydroelectric power plants. This bill is financed by electricity consumers through an increase in the energy tax. In the letter, the government states that it may be difficult to achieve the target of 50% more efficient energy use by 2030 depending on, among other things, how bnp develops. However, in my view, effective measures must be taken to achieve the objective, such as creating financial incentives for industry and the housing sector in particular to invest in energy efficiency. In the past, the Left Party has expressed the view that it does not have to be up to the market if nuclear power is to be developed or not, but that nuclear power should be phased out on the basis that it is an expensive and risky source of energy. It is also a finite resource. As regards the transition to a renewable energy system, Sweden should be a forerunner in this area. I believe, for example, that solutions must be found that make it possible to expand offshore wind power while at the same time providing the Swedish Armed Forces with reasonable conditions for their exercise activities. I want Sweden to be a country that takes responsibility for future generations, where the focus on investments in the Swedish energy system should be on renewable natural resources such as solar, wind, water and forest. It is to cope with environmental and climate change. In addition to investing in various renewable energy sources, it must be invested in energy storage solutions and electricity grids, as many have already done. They are capable of managing decentralised electricity production with greater production fluctuations. This also applies to regulatory capacity, which can be run using biogas and hydrogen. I have to tell my colleagues and others who listen that I think you should visit the countryside in Norrbotten. I was there the day before yesterday. It is one of Europe's largest ground-based wind farms. Once completed, it will deliver as much as the Lule River. We are talking about ten to twelve terawats on an annual basis. The effect of the park is so high that it can be compared to an even production. Hear and marvel! The best month of the year, when the wind farm delivers most, can be January. We have heard many times that when the energy is needed it does not blow. But that's not true. They have shown that their highest production is during the winter months – in January. This is because cold air is heavier than hot air, and then it becomes the most production. I would like those of you who are energy policy spokespersons to visit the ground-based wind farm in the countryside.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-875	Madam President, I would like We support the committee's proposal to add the letter to the file and reject the motion, but we have given a specific opinion on why we do not support the energy agreement. The aim of the energy agreement was to create a predictable framework that would facilitate the necessary investments to cope with the climate change change, but the factual content of the agreement was different. Today's energy agreement is based on growth-inhibiting policies. Instead, Sweden needs an energy policy based on strengthening Swedish competitiveness and addressing climate challenges in a real way. Sweden needs an energy policy whose overarching objective is climate-friendly and stable electricity production with competitive prices. The answer to these challenges is not today's energy agreement. Although probably no one has missed it, I would like to remind Members of this House and those following this debate that the Liberals were not behind the energy agreement concluded in 2016 between the government – the Social Democrats and the Green Party – and the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats. We are outside the agreement because it is largely based on expensive subsidies and shortcomings in terms of climate benefits. We are already seeing a lack of power and capacity in Sweden. If we are to succeed in solving the climate challenges, we need to electrify more, and if Sweden is to continue to be a strong industrial nation with expansion and new start-ups, we simply need more energy. Swedish society and, above all, Swedish industry need long-term sustainability and security of supply. The overall target of 100 percent renewable electricity generation for Sweden in 2040 excludes nuclear power, although it is fossil-free and one of our most important climate-neutral energy sources and despite its stability, is planable and is one of the most safe energy sources. The Energy Agreement has thus increased political uncertainty in the energy sector rather than reducing it. Who wants to reinvest or for that matter reinvest in something you don't know has a future? Instead, the starting point for Swedish energy policy should be that all energy sources are needed as long as they are fossil-free. I therefore believe that there is a need for a new framework for long-term Swedish energy policy, where the central point should be that electricity generation is fossil-free and stable and that expansion should be driven by the market and take place when and where it is needed. Swedish energy policy needs equal conditions in which all forms of fossil-free electricity production – solar, wind, water and nuclear – should be welcomed and assessed on equal terms. I am a little surprised by today's debate. I don't quite understand. Is the energy agreement ready? Isn't it? What do the different parties think? There seems to be quite a disagreement as to where you are in the process and what is to happen next. Who signs the company, and which parties in the energy agreement want a renewed agreement? That is the discussion we must continue in this House. Liberals are prepared to sit at the negotiating table for an energy agreement 2.0 if the ambition is to secure Swedish competitiveness, make sure that nuclear power is part of a long-term energy mix and really tackle climate challenges. In any case, we will be a constructive force for a broad and long-term energy policy. But time is short, and the need for electricity for climate-smart future solutions is increasing every day.
i-0cf4937d69244bf8-885	Madam President, I would like Now that we are discussing a first control station for the energy agreement, we can actually look back at three years of complete success. A great deal has gone in the right direction since the agreement was concluded. Perhaps the most important thing is that it has given a long-term perspective, and this long-term approach has given an investment drive in the energy sector in Sweden that we have not seen the husband for the last 30 to 40 years. A total of SEK 80 billion has been invested in new wind power in Sweden. This means that wind power has now passed the milestone of 20 terawatt hours. You're up to 22. That's amazing. The expansion of wind power is almost at the levels we had when we expanded nuclear power most, and we see that it will continue. Over the next four years we see that wind power will double in Sweden and form a very large part of Swedish electricity production. This is basically about technology development. When the policy is involved in providing long-term instruments and good conditions for investment, we see that the technology follows. We see much higher wind turbines, we see larger wind turbines and we see that prices as a result dive. Now wind power is being built for 35 øre per kilowatt hour. That's three times as cheap as building nuclear power. The development is spectacular and very positive for our country and for the climate. A fairly similar development we see in solar power, although it is from much lower levels. We see an exponential increase in solar energy in Sweden. It is partly based on long-termism, but in addition to that, it is based quite a lot on the government's own policy. We have twenty-doubled the PV subsidy and cleared up a lot of administrative barriers to investment in solar energy. Now I lost my voice. That's what happens when you're a football supporter. I will not prolong the debate unnecessarily. We are very much in agreement with what is now on the table. Let me just say something about the future of the energy agreement. What can be worth taking with you is that the investment drive and long-termness of the policy is now threatened because M and KD want to tear up the agreement with its roots. As many of us have been here before, we all see that there are challenges ahead. It is about the network, about the local capacity, about the system as such and about a lot of technical aspects linked to storage and frequency and such things. We agree that there are challenges. But what M and KD are threatening with is simply tearing up the foundations of the agreement. That is what makes the industry say: No, please, let us keep the long-term so that we can continue to invest. Let us maintain the consensus on the most central elements of the agreement. Let us sit down and discuss the challenges ahead, but let us not tear up the whole agreement with its roots. We can't see that way in front of us. In doing so, I would urge that the motion be rejected and that the proposal contained in the report be approved.
