i-d60e64c60077bdfc-9	Madam President, I would like For me, life began after 100. So said lovely Dagny Carlsson for her 104th birthday. Isn't it hopeful? We Moderates want to strengthen all older people's right to a good life regardless of whether you are as alert as Dagny Carlsson or not. Care for the elderly will help increase empowerment and freedom of choice. Demographic developments continue to require even higher quality and continuity. Patients and relatives should be able to feel safe. This applies not least to the most ill elderly and all with chronic diseases. Before I go into the position of the Moderates in report 13, I would just like to recapitulate a debate that we had in this House at the end of November, namely on the elderly care of the future. I then pressed for the national objectives of older people's policy. Repetition is, as you know, the mother of knowledge, so I was going to repeat them now. It is about opportunities for an active life and for influence both in society and over their everyday lives. It is a question of being able to age in safety and independence. It is about older people being treated with respect and having good access to care. Let us remind one another of these goals and keep them in mind when making decisions! Ten days ago, the National Board of Health and Welfare's annual report on care for the elderly came – Progress report 2019. It describes the current state of health and social care for people aged 65 and over. Some of the points that we Moderates will look further at and delve into are mental illness, how we can prioritise prevention even more and how work on coordinated individual plan, SIP, can be strengthened. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Social Affairs Committee's report 13. The report contains 28 reservations, of which 7 are the Moderates. We are, of course, behind all our motions, but we will be in favour of two of the reservations, namely reservation 5 on quality and supervision and reservation 12 on the influence and freedom of choice of the elderly. Today, I would particularly like to highlight quality requirements, good examples and freedom of choice. We can start with the quality of care for the elderly, because it is extremely basic and important. We Moderates believe it is important to improve the overall quality of care for the elderly throughout the country. We therefore want to lay down a couple of national quality requirements for elderly care activities which, in an overall assessment, should reflect the quality of care for the elderly. Someone in here might think that quality can be different for different people. And yes, it is. However, if quality requirements are developed on the basis of the national targets, as I mentioned earlier, and if it is done together with the authorities and the profession of care for the elderly, I and the Moderates are absolutely convinced that we can set relevant and good quality targets. The second point I want to highlight is good examples. We know that much good is done in the care of the elderly throughout the country every day. There are amazing health professionals who make a difference every day for the elderly. But it is a big problem that it looks different depending on which city or region you live in. We Moderates therefore want to commission the Swedish Agency for Health Care Analysis to compile, analyse and disseminate good examples. There is a need for systematic work here. Madam President, I would like As a moderate, I hardly need to convince anyone in here that we think empowerment and freedom of choice are important, so also in the care of the elderly. That is the third and final point I want to raise. In the Alliance's reform agenda, we Moderates, together with the other alliance parties, stated that both patients and employees are encouraged by the diversity and freedom of choice in welfare. Freedom of choice gives each patient the opportunity to choose. But it also gives employees the opportunity to choose, to develop, to specialise and to gain increased responsibility and better wage development. Who is the head of welfare is not the most important thing for us Moderates, it is about quality, results and patient satisfaction. That is why we want freedom of choice to be developed and not phased out, including by enabling the patient to choose specialised inpatient care and by introducing care choices for senior care. The latter makes it easier for the elderly, not least for those with extensive care needs, and it becomes a more cohesive care. Let us therefore hope that we can all agree with Dagny Carlsson's words that life begins at 100, and let us make decisions that make it easier for it to be just like that!
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-23	Madam President, I would like One of Sweden's most prioritised issues concerns our elderly, who have had to stand back for a long time and face constant deterioration in their daily lives. It is high time that their position in our society was significantly strengthened. In the SoU13 report, the Swedish Democrats have a number of requests and reservations. Of course, we are all behind it, but today I am in favour of our reservations 1 and 22. Madam President, I would like We will treat our elderly with awe and respect, and we will of course offer the best care we can. That is why we are proposing a new law on rights, an old law on care for the elderly, and have commissioned the government to investigate what such a law might look like. We think that writing a reasonable level of living should be changed to good living conditions. Of course, it is not enough to set the limit for older people to have only a reasonable level of living; we need to value our older ones more than that. There should never be any doubt from the care-needed or the nearest when it comes to what they can expect and actually demand from all of us. Madam President, I would like A major problem in today's society is being or feeling lonely. Loneliness affects not least our elderly. Being meaningful is an important part of a person's well - being. It is about creating the conditions for what gives life courage, joy of life and a sense of context. Loneliness is a chronic stress that takes physical forms such as a decrease in appetite, which can lead to malnutrition. The risk of angina, heart attack and stroke increases. We must take strong action against harmful loneliness and take this into account when making various political decisions. Britain has taken this very seriously. It has developed a strategy against loneliness and appointed a Minister of Loneliness. We should of course not be worse in Sweden. We need to create a change in how one views individualism and the importance of social networks. The view of the family's strong role and community in this context should not be minimized, but rather raised in the debate. Partners and spouses should never be forced apart because only one of them needs care for a living. Society must have the greatest respect for, for example, those who have lived together for a whole life or those who promised one another eternal love until death separates them. Madam President, I would like At present, there is a shortage of skilled staff in the care and care of older people. This gap is expected to increase significantly in the coming years. One way to make the nursing profession more attractive can be our suggestions for the nursing profession to become a licence profession with good development opportunities. We do not believe that rapid training of nurses is the right way to go. Several are the care and care services that testify to the fact that the knowledge of many newly trained people is far too low. IVO has pointed out poor knowledge of the Swedish language of home care staff as a risk area that can lead to quality problems, miscarried out care and, in the worst case, pure care injuries. The fact that staff can understand and understand is of course extremely important for anyone who needs care and care, not least for an old person who may have suffered from dementia or impaired hearing. Colleagues and relatives should also feel confident that communication works. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are working to implement the law on freedom of choice, LOV, in all municipalities. The law of freedom of choice enables the elderly, perhaps with the help of their loved ones, to choose the most suitable home service provider. It is those who know what care is appropriate and what needs and desires the elderly have. When purchasing a contract in the care of the elderly, quality must always take precedence over price. We support KD's request for a notice on the introduction of general authorisation requirements. All actors must be given a level playing field for the functioning of the freedom of choice system. The majority of private operators are smaller companies with limited revenues, and the cost of authorisation testing may be excessive. We therefore share reservation 7 in the conservative block SD-KD-M-KD-M.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-34	Madam President, I would like In Sweden and in the debate on the elderly, we should talk more about the good ageing – to age in safety while maintaining independence and with access to good care when needed. Somewhere I think that's how you want to experience your aging. But the elderly do not really describe their aging today. The clouds of anxiety that many older people see in the face of their old age are mainly about loneliness, loss of empowerment and loss of independence. To avert these fears and meet new expectations and needs, we need to take a new approach. Sweden currently has over 2 million people over 65 years of age. At the same time, we are living longer and the age group over 80 years is growing steadily. By 2050, the number of 85-year-olds and older people is estimated to have doubled compared to today. It will impose new demands on welfare, which are facing major challenges. In recent years, care queues have grown, and many have to wait too long to receive care. At the same time as fewer and fewer elderly people have a permanent care contact, it is also the elderly who have to wait the longest in the emergency wards. Many elderly, not least single women, live in financial vulnerability as a result of our low pensions. Older people who want to continue working longer in the years cannot do so because of rigid rules and age discrimination. Madam President, I would like We can't have this! What, then, do we need to do? We must not get caught up in just talking about care and care, about aid assessments and about efforts. These areas are, of course, very important, but we must not forget that other areas, which relate to everyday life, life and health. A couple of years ago, I was involved in developing a strategy for the good ageing of my municipality. The interviews we did then have really stuck in my memory as good and instructive conversations and knowledge. What was interesting was that there were similarities in everyone's stories and thoughts about how they wanted it. The similarity was that they wanted to control their own life, that they wanted to choose for themselves, and that they wanted to feel participative and secure in their daily lives. I have taken this on board, and it is values that characterise the policies that I and the Center Party pursue. I think that the work of creating healthy ageing and increasing the sense of empowerment and participation in society needs to get even more focus. The efforts we are offering must be based more on the individual and his/her relatives and increase the perceived quality of life for the individual. Who are we as politicians to decide whether or not you should have security alarms because you feel insecure? To feel needed, to be involved in society and to strengthen one's senses by learning new things is another important part of promoting and preserving health. To be active in non-profit organisations, to be involved in voluntary activities and to be a class grandfather or class grandmother in a primary school are examples of activities where you are both needed and constitute an important social resource. Civil society is a great source of joy and benefit here. Strengthening the role and role of civil society is therefore beneficial to many. Knowledge of how good health can be promoted exists, but it is not fully used. This is an area where there is a lack of national coordination. Expanding and strengthening outreach activities has proven to be an effective way of promoting health among older people. It is about outreach activities in the home that focus on information about eating habits, exercise, social activities and support to prevent falls, all to support the healthy and maintain health. The second part of what concerns life and everyday life is about the importance of being able to choose or opt out. Freedom of choice and human freedom have been and are a watershed in Swedish politics. For me as a center party, it is a matter of course that you, as an elderly person, should be allowed to choose. The freedom of choice as to where I should live, who should come to my home when I need help and which health centre I want to go to is central. It is therefore important that the law on freedom of choice continues to develop and broaden. When we get to health care and the experience of it there is a lot to say, but I choose to lift some parts that are particularly important to get up for discussion. Imagine that as an 85-year-old with a variety of diseases you get to see different doctors every time you come to your health centre. At each occasion, you should review your history, and each time your doctor should familiarise himself with your situation. That's what anyone hears. It's not sustainable. Therefore, a well-developed and accessible primary care with a firm medical contact is the basis for a functioning healthcare system. Primary care is the care closest to people and should be the patient's way into the healthcare system. It is the cohesive link in the care chain. If we are to strengthen primary care and give more people a fixed doctor's contact, more doctors are required to work there. That is why we need to increase the attractiveness of working in primary care. The Center Party wants doctors to have the opportunity to run their own businesses on a small scale. Primary care should consist of both larger health centres and smaller clinics with only one doctor and one nurse. In this way, we also increase the conditions for providing care in the more sparsely populated parts of the country. But we also need to do more to get the right care at the right time. During the last term of office, the government has stood by and watched as the care queues have grown longer. This is to a large extent affecting our elderly and multisickness. Getting time for specialist care, for surgery you need or to see your doctor and talk about your chronic illness is extremely important. It is a matter of patient safety but also of safety. That is why it was important for us to get the queue billions through the January agreement. During the time of the Alliance, we saw that it actually worked and had an effect. Another aspect of the issue of security is access to technology and the possibility of digital services and home care. The longer the time passes, the more technology-experienced older people we get. This opens up huge opportunities to make healthcare more efficient and better. But it also opens up huge opportunities for our older people to maintain their independence, integrity and control over their everyday lives. The technology can also enable the elderly with chronic diseases to have easier contact with their doctor. Instead of perhaps going many miles, you can use a link at home, with a sampling kit and a camera, to have direct contact with your doctor. Madam President, I would like We must meet the challenges of the future with open minds and with a focus on the individual's needs. By focusing on the elements I have mentioned in my speech today, I believe that we can lay the foundations for the good ageing of the whole country. I would like to conclude by calling for the approval of paragraph 9 on the influence of older people and freedom of choice in the committee's proposal.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-56	Madam President, I would like We all get older if we are healthy and healthy. For some, the years after retirement becomes creative and exciting and gives the opportunity to do everything you haven't had time to do before. Many are given time to spend more time with family and friends and may enjoy the dessert of life spelled grandkids. In addition, one can now take the opportunity to work a little longer because the KD-M budget removes the special salary tax for pensioners. But many, far too many, older people end up in a situation that is much darker and more difficult. All our political decisions must therefore be directed towards making it better for those who are not well off and, above all, for those who are in the worst position. Madam President, I would like Today's older people are different from yesterday's, and tomorrow's older ones will be different from today's. When my grandparents got older, they were basically worn out in the body after a long working life. Nor did they grow as old as we are today. They could not have the same requirements for service and care as we have today, not to mention tomorrow. In our view, the old age care system was inferior. It may be said, Madam President, that developments have definitely gone in the right direction. Gone are poor cottages, gone are old-age homes with dormitories and gone is the lack of food and care. Today, most elderly people have good housing and good access to food, medical care and medicine. But while we have succeeded well in material things, many older ones suffer from depression and anxiety. You feel insecure, you don't feel needed and you may feel forgotten. In the midst of material prosperity, man himself seems to have been forgotten. We can find explanations and excuses for both. Family and family no longer live close to each other, but it is an exception. The children move far away, the contact becomes more sporadic and even if the phone is available it doesn't ring very often anymore. The old friends with whom you share memories disappear one by one – they get sick and die. The sense of context is constantly decreasing. Even if you live well there is sometimes oaking plot in the dwelling. Even if the food is delivered home, it is not very pleasant to always eat yourself – and it really does not get better if the food is delivered weekly in cartons to be heated in the microwave. It doesn't promote anything. In the midst of all the good work done and done, too many older people end up in involuntary loneliness. It is now high time we could see beyond the material and see the needs of the whole human being as a social being. Madam President, I would like For older people to have full access to life, further efforts are needed. It requires thinking beyond the crowns and the ear and beyond systems and efficiencies – a thinking that actually looks to the whole human being. No gadget in the world can replace friendship and closeness between people, and yet many elderly people lack that very thing. We Christian Democrats know that the state and the public cannot solve all the problems. We know that society is much bigger than the state and the public. That is why we want to stimulate the work of the non-profit sector. It can be about friendship groups, visiting groups, accompanying groups or just having lunch or dinner together. Or why not go for a walk or just sit down and talk for a while? This, which is so important, will never be possible only through public intervention, but through relationships between people and on a voluntary basis. In the KD-M budget, we allocated SEK 20 million to the non-profit sector to counteract involuntary loneliness among the elderly. I asked the Minister for Social Affairs in this House how things went. Have the organisations received the money? Unfortunately, the answer was negative. Although we in Parliament have decided on this, the government has not implemented it. Unfortunately, this is not the only example, but it looks like that in a number of areas. This is not primarily a concern for us in Parliament, but is a major concern for those who did not get the resources to counteract the loneliness of the elderly. Madam President, I would like During the election campaign, all parties agreed that older people were an important electoral group. It was important that these conditions should be improved. Now the question is: Is the interest equal after the election? The current government, supported by centre parties and liberals, has presented a document, the so-called 73-point programme. In addition, there is an agreement to present common budgets. Among the 73 points of this document, there are 3, I say 3, points relating to the elderly. They are about pensioner's tax, elderly-RUT and quality requirements in care for the elderly. That's all right, but I think it's a little thin, to be honest. Yes, Madam President, in fact, I think the whole document is rather thin, but it is a different story. In an elderly debate, it is not possible to go beyond the issue of home care staff and retirement homes. Forecasts show a shortage of over 100,000 employees in care for the elderly up to 2023. Many measures are needed at the same time: a good wage development, a working environment that encourages and makes it possible to remain in work, the opportunity to advance in the profession and, in addition, to get immigrants to train for work in the care of the elderly. Language skills are crucial for the latter to succeed. Those of us who have had the opportunity to be close to home care and retirement homes know that many of today's staff have their roots outside Sweden. My personal experience with this is extremely positive. We have a source of labor to use. In home care, the average number of people visiting the elderly is 15 in a 14-day period. Everyone realizes there's too many of them. It does not contribute to the well-being of the elderly and does not create security. Madam President, I would like I would like to think that the parties in this House all want older people well, but I am concerned when I hear this type of reasoning: it is clear that the elderly should be well off. They've worked and worked their whole lives, which is why they deserve a good old age. I believe and hope that this does not mean what is actually said indirectly, namely that those who have not worked do not deserve a good old age. According to us Christian Democrats, all people have a self-worth only by existence. It doesn't depend on what I can or what I produce. Those who have not been able to work through illness or injury should have the same right as others to a good life when they get older. As I said, I hope and believe that we agree on this, but words and their value are important. If we say something enough times, it risks becoming a truth that we might not even want. Madam President, I would like Older issues are the Christian Democrats' priority issue. By looking at how the elderly have it in a society, you can see whether it is a good or a less good society. In every context, we want to be involved in creating good conditions for our elderly. The most important thing is not where proposals come from, but the most important thing is that the proposals produce a good result. Madam President, I would like Of course, the Christian Democrats support all our reservations, but for the winning of time at the forthcoming vote, I only call for reservation 23.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-73	Madam President, I would like When I listened to previous speakers, I asked myself the question: Who is really older? Well, I'm older than all of you sitting in this hall, but I'm younger than Dagny Carlsson. We must see that this is not a collective generation. They are individuals with different needs and different desires. We should not be caught in chronological age limits. Liberal policy assumes that people should be free to live their lives as they wish, as long as they do not interfere with the freedom of another. It applies to 25-year-olds, it applies to 50-year-olds and it applies to 65-year-olds. It's about the whole life trip. That is our starting point. We are working to get rid of obstructing chronological age limits. This report, which is a motion report, is bursting. Many different issues are raised. For an outsider it can feel quite incalculable. Liberals have three reservations. It is precisely about the influence and choice of older people. It's about food and meals. There is a white span between them; you can all see that. Then it's about violence. We have mentioned this in reservation 18, which I support. Violence and abuse in close relationships in the year-long generation is what the World Health Organization calls a major, serious public health problem. Honorful violence is serious. Men's violence against women is also very serious. However, the media do not write in capital letters about the violence that year - long people are subjected to in close relationships. I've been thinking a lot about why. Is it because it's not just women who are vulnerable? I guess there's so many men. That's a few percent difference. Say that it is 16% of women over the age of 65, if I take a chronological age limit, who are exposed and perhaps 14% of men. It varies in different studies. But it's in here. It is women who practice violence against their husbands and men who practice violence against their wives or cohabiting partners. But so are sons and daughters. It has a different pattern from the violence we see in younger generations. It is not appropriate, therefore, that it is only men who practice violence. So are women. It may be against a husband who has become demented, or the woman herself has become demented. And then there are sons and daughters who are dissatisfied with their parents. The government designed a strategy for this in 2014. But it was only a matter of care for the elderly. You have to take a much broader approach. The police, the judiciary and civil society must be involved much more. We are therefore calling for a broad action plan. But is it complicated, and does it cost a lot of money? It is only to build on the working method that you have on Gotland. It has involved the whole of society. The public has been educated in what people should do if they see violence and abuse directed at the year-long generation. The police have been trained. Social services and health care have been trained. Everyone is involved in this and knows what to do if they see violence. They don't back down on it and think I don't know how to behave here. They know that on Gotland. In fact, it is only a matter of translating the way in which a national action plan is used. It is a priority for this generation to feel secure and know that you get help and where to turn if you are exposed. Of course it takes a mother to go to the police and report his son for committing violence against her. One is ashamed as a parent that it has become that way in the family. You shouldn't be ashamed of yourself. You should dare to go to social services or the police or ask for help in health care – where you can see that you can get a good contact. We are therefore in favour of reservation 18. Of course, we support the other reservations as well. The issues highlighted in what is called older people's policy are very important. It is sad that they end up in the back water in relation to issues relating to a little less year-long generations.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-85	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the proposal of the Committee on Social Affairs to be approved in the report. The need for health care and care for the elderly is steadily increasing. There have been several speakers on that. We live longer and longer. That's a good thing. We agree on that, too. But it also poses major challenges for our welfare society. Between 2015 and 2035, the 80-year-old group is expected to increase by 76%, with about half a million older, to nearly 900,000. To be able to maintain care at the current level requires an extensive expansion of care for the elderly, which many have also been involved in. I've looked a little at the National Board of Health and Welfare's rankings when it comes to satisfaction. I note that the country's satisfaction is still quite high. Over 80 percent are satisfied with the activities of special accommodations. And more than 90 percent are satisfied with home care efforts. The confidence in the staff who come home to the users is very high. It's 90%. It can be an important perspective to include when looking at elderly care. During the last term of office, the government allocated more than SEK 3 billion to strengthen elderly care. The aim was to restore Swedish welfare. The goal has been to increase quality, increase security and make care for the elderly more equal and equal throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Care for the elderly is in need of competent and trained staff. Then the work environment, the degree of employment and access to skills development are crucial, just as many others have been involved. The Social Democrats and the government therefore want to abolish minute schedules in the home care service and guarantee permanent full-time employment for all nurses who complete the care programme. The Government has also allocated funds for upgrading the skills of basic staff in the care of the elderly. And the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has had a special mission to develop and disseminate skills support. 65 000 people have so far participated in skills-enhancing actions. Madam President, I would like The Social Services Act is clear that efforts in social services should be of good quality and that there should be staff with appropriate training and experience. The government therefore believes that it is important to set quality requirements for the operations and municipalities, which many have discussed. That is why the government has given IVO, the Inspection for Health and Care, increased sanctions – we are aware of this. And from 1 January 2019, more businesses need permission to perform, for example, home care. A lot of people have been into it before, too. So it has already been implemented. The Government's plan for the care of the elderly, the national quality plan, states that the Government wants to prioritise more preventive measures. For example, older people should be able to live independently using technical aids such as alarm mats, camera supervision and GPS watches. Another preventive measure is, in any case, I think, to deploy help at the right time without a major investigation of the needs. Therefore, the government is currently reviewing the possibility that it will be easier to get home help through a simplified aid assessment. Madam President, I would like Several people here have believed that many older people want to live at home for a long time. But it can be very lonely in the apartment or the house, and you can begin to yearn for fellowship. Therefore, in the autumn of 2018, the government presented a bill on aid-assessed shelters. The Parliament chose to support the proposal – I think we in the Social Affairs Committee were in complete agreement. From 2019, Sweden's municipalities have the opportunity to decide on assisted shelters. Madam President, I would like However, we cannot ignore the fact that one contributing reason for more people staying at home has been the lack of places in particular accommodations. In order to stimulate the construction of new housing, the government has therefore given a special investment aid to municipalities that build or provide apartments for the elderly. One area that older people see as worrying is the lack of information and communication from home care. This can be read about in the National Board of Health and Welfare's rankings. There is an experience that it is difficult to get in touch with the home care service if necessary. We in the Social Democrats therefore want a permanent home care contact to be introduced for those in need of home care. As an old person, you should feel safe, and you should know where to turn if you have questions for home care. Another important issue is that it should not be expensive to grow old. Where overheads are paid, there shall continue to be a reasonable level for the elderly. Therefore, the tariff system should in future be progressive and fundamentally adapted to the costs incurred by the user for his accommodation and life. Several have been involved in freedom of choice and LOV. We believe that the most important thing is that municipal self-government should apply. The most important thing about freedom of choice is that quality is high in both private and public elderly care, and the user should be in focus. It should feel safe to grow old. There should be freedom of choice to live at home, in a shelter with community or in a special accommodation if you are poor. Finally, I can say that from a user perspective, which I went through before, Swedish elderly care is still quite good, Madam President. However, it is important that we continue to develop quality plans for the long-term development of care for the elderly. We must also think ahead and ensure the quality of future care for the elderly. It is about security of personnel supply, which many have touched upon. Flexible forms of aid decisions are also important. In a strong and secure society, as it should be in Sweden, I think that everyone who needs it should have a place in a retirement home. Everyone should know that they receive the support and help they need. We must invest in both quality and quantity. More retirement homes need to be built, and innovations in elderly care and health needs to be adopted. In this way, we will meet the demographic challenge.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-101	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Mats Wiking about full-time home services. I don't think anyone's against this. Shared tours are in many ways a misery. Some people think it might be good to be able to work half-time. But a lot of people don't think it's okay. In my municipality of residence, Kristianstad, efforts were made to solve the problem. Then the small problem arose that the whole thing would also be financed. Basically, everyone agrees that a solution would be a good one. But in my municipality, which was then ruled by the Social Democrats, the Liberals and certainly some additional party, the project had to be stopped because it could not be financed. Mats Wiking may have a solution to this. That would be interesting to hear.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-104	Madam President, I would like I have experience of being a municipal politician for many years, Michael Anefur. You do too, don't you? We in Kommunsverige are struggling quite hard to create full-time positions. It's not supposed to be a female trap, and you should be able to work full time if you actually want to. This also applies, of course, to men, but this is a profession held most by women. It is therefore extremely important that municipalities work full time for those who want it. However, not everyone wants it. There are municipalities that have managed quite reasonably to solve it so that it is a good use when you go up from 75 to 100 percent. Otherwise, it's been a worry when you set schedules. It may have been better with 77% based on the scheduling. However, we need to take into account the fact that we need to be able to recruit new guys and girls into the business. Then full-time is very important. That is why we must meet this cost. Otherwise, we'll lose the staff.
i-JxPStFkmHyPwW5WMNsJZPU	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Wiking, for your answer! Shared tours mean that there is a workload in the morning. During the day the workload is smaller, and then a new peak comes forward the evening. That's where the trouble arises. What do you do in between? Are you going to work somewhere else, or aren't you going to work? Should you be paid to just be there? It may sound like I'm making a mess of myself, but it's not like that. Basically, I agree that full time for those who want it is great. But as an old municipal politician, I know that everything is to be paid for and financed. Dreams and visions are great, but it should also be paid. That is where the problem arises. How do we ensure that we can do this? We agree that would be a good thing. I'm somewhat more skeptical about how simple it is. Mats Wiking thinks we should work against it, and you might think so. However, I wonder how we are going to finance it.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-110	Madam President, I would like I see, Michael Anefur, that several municipalities have managed to find funding for it. Sometimes you get to work in several places. That's the way it is in my municipality of residence, Trollhättan. And the staff understand that. If we look at the future, I think that in order for there to be a developed quality in the business one should perhaps have a little more time in different accommodations. Then we can strengthen quality. There will be more time for planning and to be able to carry out the work in the business both morning and evening. It costs money, of course. The government is prepared to contribute to the right many billions in welfare efforts in order to increase the quality within, among other things, elderly care.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-113	Madam President, I would like Just like Barbro said, older people are. They're not a collective. Some older people have a very good financial situation. They can go to Portugal and maybe drink good white wine – but not too much because it is not good for the elderly. Others collect beer cans in the South, for example, because we have a pension system that has increased the number of poor pensioners. Class and age are reflected. As I said, the elderly are individuals. In the agreement between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Liberals that we have been able to take part in, there is not much about elderly care. The issues that we have raised together, I have had a little difficulty understanding, but it may come back in an amending budget. Let's see what happens. I myself, as a left-wing party, am rather concerned, as you can see, that the pursuit of profit remains within the whole welfare and, of course, also within the care of the elderly. Benefits in care for the elderly can be obtained by cutting staff, giving staff poor schedules and poor working environment and so on. It has been looked at by Kommunal in a number of investigations. You can also see that the municipal employees earn more, have more colleagues and enjoy something better, which of course benefits the elderly. Freedom of choice is important. The Left Party is not against freedom of choice. It can be good sometimes in some places. Freedom of choice can also be insanely good if you are to escape from companies that neglect. We have been able to read about Vardaga, Attendo and so on in the media lately. It is good to have freedom of choice so that you can find something better with the help of relatives. After all, Madam President, we want the staff who are going to take care of Mom and Dad to have good working conditions, because it usually benefits the elderly. Then there is the issue of tax cuts and how to equip welfare. Now the military tax will be removed, and it benefits people like us in this hall who have a salary of about $5,000 a year. Specifically, it benefits those who earn 1 million a year. They benefit greatly from the removal of the military tax. These are citizens with an income that is two or three times higher than an industrial worker's salary – not to mention a nurse's salary. This occurs at the same time as seven out of ten nurses in the care of the elderly experience that the staffing is insufficient every week. Of them, 42% feel that staffing is so low that it poses a risk to the elderly at least one day a week. Perhaps, then, we should equip our welfare instead of reducing taxes on those who are in the very best position. We are also facing an incredible staffing crisis. Approximately 50 000 nurses and carers need to be recruited to the municipalities over the next four years. It is a very important question, and I just want to say that without those who have immigrated to Sweden, the elderly care would not be able to cope. There are a lot of people who have come here. Madam President, I would like The savings and cuts made over the years have reduced quality. Stockholm University has studied this and compared what has happened between 2005 and 2015. The study is based on survey responses from 1,200 nurses in Sweden compared to 4,400 in Denmark, Finland and Norway, and it is interesting to look at what has happened here in Sweden. One can see that the number of helpers that a home worker meets during a working day has increased significantly, while the staff's room for manoeuvre and opportunities to get support from colleagues, management and so on have decreased. People in care for the elderly and in homes for the elderly feel that their work is much more psychologically and physically heavy and much more time-pressed, which has happened between 2005 and 2015. That way, we won't get more people to work in the care of the elderly. Another issue that I think is very serious is the housing situation of many older people. Most elderly people want to stay at home for as long as possible, but when you become ill, get high anxiety, anxiety and so on, you have to have the right to move. At the same time, we know that we have cut down a great many places throughout the elderly in the municipalities and in various retirement homes, Madam President. There's about 20,000 places that have been rumored. Older people shouldn't have to fight for a place in a home that you can do now with the help of their family torpedoes, which I have named them. The National Board of Health and Welfare has also pointed out that there has been a huge deterioration in retirement homes. Then it may not be enough to develop various robot proposals such as SKL has made. I think that older people might want to live in some kind of community instead of having five robots at home. What do I know, but I think that's the case. We in the Left Party believe that it is not reasonable that the elderly are not offered a place in retirement homes when they explicitly want to move. This is a huge question. Concern and insecurity are no longer considered sufficient reasons, but one should be very uneasy. Often it is a dementia diagnosis that will lay the foundation for this. This means that retirement homes become more of palliative accommodation than accommodation where you can hang out and have a good last time. However, if you have money today, you can buy various services. That's the social system we have. I will describe this through Peje Emilsson, a person you have probably heard of. He is Kreab's founder, and he is also a person who has been behind the concept of profit in welfare and driven it hard, as one might say has been very fortunate. Peje Emilsson has invested and built something called Silver Life. Maybe you've looked at it. Maybe one of you bought a place there, what do I know? Silver Life is an all-inclusive and extremely exclusive accommodation where you can add various services. The foundation is, of course, our tax money, you should know that. We'll poke some in there. This may be the case with the famous visions and innovations of welfare companies: it is better for those who are in the best position. But that's not how it's supposed to be! We want to see less of this in older people's policy. What we need is a real boost on the whole issue of the elderly. It's all about resources, housing, social contexts – everything. With this, Madam President, I would like to call for all motions to be rejected and for the committee's proposals to be approved in the report.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-128	Madam President, I would like The issues we deal with in the Social Affairs Committee probably affect every person in Sweden. We treat children, we treat elderly people, we treat those who are ill, we treat those who need medical care and we treat those who need special help through, for example, LSS. That is why I decided that my work here in the committee must be very interactive. For you have to work with and listen to all people who have their own stories to tell. After all, no individual with his or her own needs is the same throughout his or her life. That's why I opened up such a discussion on my own Facebook page and got quite a hearing there. I have taken this seriously into this debate, and I will continue to open up all the issues that we are discussing in this way. I would like to say thank you to Sara Lindblom, Karin Michal, Eva Pethrus, Charlotta von Zweigbergk, Mats Lindqvist, Lena Östholm, Ingrid Löfström Berg, Lena Schildt and others. What I am summarizing is that almost everyone is talking about loneliness. I have lived in West Africa, among others, and I must say that Sweden is a rather strange country. There is age discrimination. We have an enormous number of single households in Sweden. Many are very lonely, and with loneliness depression and anxiety often come into the picture. Older people who may also have disabilities along the way – we all will – may not be able to get out of the apartment. I remember when I was young working extra time at a supermarket. Then there came a lady and wanted to talk a little extra. Maybe I was the only person she talked to that week. It's very sad. Sometimes people live at home too long because there is no room in a nursing home. Sometimes it's about there's not so much of middle homes where you can move in without being really sick. Maybe you're just old and you need to get rid of your loneliness. I remember in my childhood that I loved it when we had to go to my great-grandmother Karin Stålhammar. She lived in a service building at the time, and it was just a bustle of activity there. There were always a lot of people, and we kids loved being there. You could carve, carpentry, and play pool. There were a lot of different meetings everywhere, and you could weave carpets and have big parties. I would like that to be possible for all people to move to. As Mats Wiking so well said in his previous speech, it is good that the government has invested in building. Now we call it a shelter instead of a shelter. I think it corresponds to the service housing of the day. But you still have to build the shelters. Many municipalities do not. Only a few municipalities have such shelters. It also risks becoming a poverty trap. Living in special shelters can cost a lot. Maybe you're the only one with a lot of money to move there. Perhaps you live in the countryside yourself in a house and cannot afford to move in for that reason, while the house might benefit a family with children. That is why I am very pleased that the government has now entered and made it possible for aid decisions to be made in order to be able to receive subsidies. Even if you do not have the financial resources, you should be able to move in there. Then we have accommodation for those who need a little extra care. My mother lived in such a home. There were great staff there. But it's pretty heavy, and there's far too little staff. You may be completely clear in your head and have lived independently all your life, taken care of yourself, and all of a sudden you can't. Madam President, I would like Then you should have different people who come and shower you every day. These are people you've never met. It could be people changing your catheter. It's different people who are supposed to do it. It may be people who may not have the time or energy to talk to you very much because it is understaffed. It's the same thing in home care. There are different people. These are people who have been clocked to get into your home. They say, "I don't have time to talk to you because I won't have time to wash your dishes. It's very sad. That is why we have done different things for this. We want to remove the bell of the staff and give the staff more freedom to talk to those to whom they come home. We have also given EUR 3 billion to care for the elderly during the last parliamentary term. They're very important to the elderly. Last but not least, we are working to remove the terrible pensioner tax that the previous Alliance imposed on pensioners and others who did not work through job tax deductions on job tax deductions. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-142	Madam President, I would like We will now discuss the Social Affairs Committee's report No 14 The Swedish National Audit Office's report on investment support for special housing for the elderly. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed investment aid in 2007–2014. In September 2018, the report was submitted to the Government. In the report before us, we are dealing with the letter from the government and nine motions for motion. The Swedish National Audit Office's review of state investment aid for special housing for the elderly resulted in the report saying that the aid is largely not properly designed. Madam President, I would like We Moderates believe that general state grants should be the general rule when we support regions and municipalities with state funds. After having been involved in regional politics in Region Skåne for eight years and also for a few years in municipal politics, I can testify to the difficulties that the targeted state grants can sometimes bring. It is important that we have faith in our regional and municipal representatives. It is therefore of the utmost importance for the State to exercise restraint on new targeted state subsidies and to develop a national strategy and plan to bring about more systematic processes in the context of targeted state aid decisions. Madam President, I would like I would like to endorse the Moderate reservations Nos 1 and 3. Reservation No 1 means that, together with the Center Party, we state that general state grants are the main focus of state grants. Reservation No. 3 means that the Moderates believe that the Government should ensure that investment aid and state grants aimed at elderly care activities are followed up and evaluated.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-148	Madam President, I would like As we have just heard, this case concerns investment aid for special housing for the elderly. The Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed investment aid for building special housing for the elderly in 2007–2014. The conclusion reached by the Swedish National Audit Office is that the support was largely not appropriate. No evidence has been found that investment aid was the decisive reason for the start of the construction of special housing for the elderly. Even before the aid was introduced, it had been established that it was not the investment costs of construction that held back the development of special housing for the elderly. Nevertheless, such investment aid was introduced. Both Boverket and the National Board of Health and Welfare believed that it was better to provide support for the operations themselves, as the really large cost arises in the long-term operation. The Swedish National Audit Office also believes that it is not possible to determine the net asset in places while the support was in place because you do not know how many places were being decommissioned at the same time. One third of the country's municipalities have not taken part in the aid at all because, according to the letter, they had no need to build new special housing. We believe, like the National Audit Office, that it is not good for money to be tied up in support that is not being used to a great extent. To allocate more general financial support to the elderly care of municipalities, and to distribute it on the basis of the number of older people, we consider a much better way to go. We also believe it is important for the government to monitor the number of decommissioned sites. It's something you can't see today. Investment aid as it stands today is simply not right. It didn't work out the way it was supposed to.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-154	Madam President, I would like The purpose of the investment aid was to stimulate the construction of new special housing for the elderly. The purpose was good, but the result was not quite what you had in mind. That is why I and the Center Party welcome the review of investment aid. We all agree that housing is a hotly debated and debated subject. The housing shortage hits older people hard in many ways. The fact that when the spouse has passed away, he or she is forced to remain in his or her too large house because of the lack of housing in the village, locality or town, often leads to involuntary loneliness and risks impairing his or her health. Nearly 30% of the 85-plus age group feel lonely, according to SCB's latest survey. I and the Center Party believe that we need to do more in order for the elderly to have the opportunity to move to adapted housing, primarily shelters, when the elderly themselves judge that it is time. But for this group, the solution is no more places in particular accommodations. Many elderly people do not need a full day's care – they are too healthy for that. But they have a need for accommodation with community opportunities, which can offer security. Often, such accommodation means that moving to a particular dwelling can be postponed. The Swedish National Audit Office points out that there has been a lack of and still lacks a clear picture of the availability of special housing. The report also points out that at the time of the introduction of investment aid, many municipalities did not report a lack of specific housing. So, what's the situation? The Swedish National Audit Office notes that it is difficult to get a clear picture of the effects of the aid, partly because it is not possible to determine whether the housing that was built during the time period came about thanks to the investment support. It is believed that much suggests that these accommodations should still have been built. In this way, the aid has led to an increase in the profits of the developers rather than to a strengthening of access to new housing. The picture provided by the Swedish National Audit Office reflects with great accuracy how different our 290 municipalities look. Trying to design a support in a special way in the belief that it will solve a problem is a bit like trying to push a large round ball into a square hole. It kind of doesn't fit. We have 290 municipalities in our country, with different needs and conditions. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that the support has different significance for different municipalities as they design elderly care in different ways. And that's exactly how I and the Center Party want it to continue. We're not going to force the municipalities into square holes. Instead, we should encourage and welcome different solutions to the needs that municipalities actually have. The Center Party therefore agrees with the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion that it would be better if investment support could be converted into more general support for the elderly care of municipalities. A previous review from the Swedish National Audit Office has also raised the issue of targeted state grants and their often questionable effects. In addition to a general state subsidy, a focus on housing policy is also required, which is characterised by fewer rules and taxes which are currently slowing down construction. Finally, we agree with the Swedish National Audit Office's conclusion that there is a need to monitor the development of special housing in municipalities in a better way. A clear picture of the need for new places is a prerequisite for the efforts to be made where they are most useful. With this approval, I would like to express my support for reservations Nos 1 and 4.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-163	Madam President, I would like In this report, the Swedish National Audit Office examined the investment aid that existed between 2007 and 2014. It was a state grant that was given to developers to build special housing for the elderly. The Swedish National Audit Office has examined whether the investment aid was designed in an appropriate way. It turns out that there are several indications that the design was not to fill. The report also makes it very clear that the market cannot meet the needs and challenges of welfare and that the support in this case was misdirected; the municipalities could not make use of it. But there has always been a passion in this Chamber for the market's solutions in the former Alliance, especially in the area of housing policy. With the current legislation, municipalities have great opportunities to design special housing according to different needs. However, the differences in guidelines and procedures in the country can vary greatly. What type of accommodation you receive depends on where you live. Today there is a serious shortage of different types of housing for the elderly. Developments have not been directly beneficial. We need to have a common understanding of current and future needs in municipalities of different types of housing for the elderly, in order sometimes to be able to make targeted efforts. Madam President, we want the government to commission an appropriate authority to make a proper inventory of Swedish municipalities and to ensure statistics on the need for special housing in Sweden. The study should also look at the number of refusals and refusals – which vary widely between municipalities – and also on the reasons given in the refusal decisions. In Stockholm, Madam President, it can look very different in the 14 neighbourhoods when it comes to the possibility of having a special accommodation. It should also be compared to the extent to which refusals are appealed – it is always interesting to look at – and whether there are socio-economic differences and gender differences among those who appeal and in which cases the decisions are amended by the courts. We need to look at how to get a good construction going, and then we need to have a good foundation to stand on. We don't have that today. It is not reasonable, according to the Left Party, that older people are not offered a place, although they expressly want to move, Madam President. Concern and insecurity must also form the basis for moving. That is not the case today. There can sometimes be huge waiting times to get a seat. Waiting times are too long, not only for the elderly but also for the relatives who sometimes go in and take unreasonable responsibility. There is also inequality in this. If you have money and are a rich pensioner, you have the opportunity to buy a home in a different way. That's not how it's supposed to be. We want to see less of this in older people's policy. I ask for the approval of Amendment No 7 and for the rejection of all other motions.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-171	Madam President, I would like We know that six out of ten elderly people living in villas and three out of ten older people living in condos think they live too big. This means that there are 420 000 households in Sweden where you still live in an accommodation that you think is too large. This focuses on what it is really about. You can't find the alternatives. Moving to a smaller dwelling is much more expensive than staying in the paid villa you already have. You get stuck, and we don't get any moving chains going at all. The policy must succeed in creating incentives for those who want to move to less and more suitable housing. We Christian Democrats want to raise the ceiling of the housing supplement in order to increase demand for newer and therefore more expensive housing. We also want to increase the housing supplement for pensioners so that those with the lowest pension receive the most help. We think that when you are 85 years old you should at least be of age to decide for yourself how you want it. If you have reached the age of 85, you should be able to say: Now I want to live in a shelter – now I need a special accommodation. That would be quite reasonable. In order to achieve these migration chains, the income of pensioners is required to increase. We want to encourage municipalities to build more older dwellings in different forms. That's what we want to do with a retirement home billion. We will also support good proposals that increase the building of housing for the elderly. Then we come to the Swedish National Audit Office's report. It's pretty awesome. All the billions that have been invested have led to nothing, at least nothing that can be demonstrated. I think what cannot be seen in the Swedish National Audit Office's report is that it is about two things. It's about special accommodations, and there's the Swedish National Audit Office very clear, as clear as you can be now. Because they did not know how many special accommodations there were when this was introduced, and they are not really sure how many there are now either. But you can't see any effect, you say. What is not followed up in the same way is the number of shelters, so if I understand has increased quite sharply in these years. It is possible that the municipalities have been smart. There was no need for more special accommodations, but they needed shelters, and so they built it. We know very little about this from the Swedish National Audit Office's report. It is, of course, reasonable for us to take it seriously. It is reasonable to follow up on all government money distributed to municipalities. There is, however, something that is absolutely clear. In order for us to have a building of housing for the elderly, there will be a need for state support in some form even in the future. And if we do not succeed, we see a problem that is just increasing and increasing until it eventually becomes insurmountable. With that, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 5.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-180	Madam President, I would like Building new special housing for the elderly is a large cost and investment for municipalities, but the biggest cost for elderly care is to carry out good activities and have competent staff and the right number of employees. This report deals with investment aid for special housing. The Swedish National Audit Office has produced a report, which we Social Democrats welcome, and had views on investment support for special housing for the elderly. The aid was introduced in 2007, and the National Audit Office's report relates to the years 2007 to 2014, so several governments have been responsible for the investment aid. The Government and we Social Democrats share the Swedish National Audit Office's problem formulations regarding the support and the assessment that needs and access need to be followed up. This should of course be done together with the municipalities, and one should try to have a common picture of what needs to be done and what is best for the municipalities. More than one third of the country's municipalities have made use of the aid. The other municipalities have not had a need to build special accommodations. The report also shows that the aid has helped to finance more places, but it is unclear how many have been built for support and how many have probably been built anyway. But with the help of the aid, it has been built with greater financial margins for the developers, whether they were municipal companies or private companies. In 2016, our government changed investment support so that it can also be used for renovation of special housing. Alternative solutions may be available to build more special accommodations for the elderly if there is a need for more special accommodation. Madam President, I would like It is important that we ensure that elderly care and housing are safe and good, but it is after all the municipalities that are responsible for providing good care for the elderly and that there are special accommodations for the elderly. For the municipalities, the biggest investment and cost, as I said earlier, is about operating and having enough employees. That's how we get good quality in our elderly care and in our accommodations. The government of the Social Democrats and the Green Party has invested SEK 7 billion on staffing during 2015– 2018 in elderly care. The general state contribution to the local government sector increased by SEK 10 billion per year in the central government budget in 2017. That is what we Social Democrats have done. This is how we show that we are serious about investing in the elderly, good housing and a good business. This money is very important money, which has come to the municipality to meet the elderly's need for good care and good housing. It is difficult to know if special housing is right for the elderly care of the future, but what is obvious for us Social Democrats is that it is important that older people get the right input, a good care and a housing that is good for the individual, whether it is a special accommodation or a shelter. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-193	Madam President, I would like We Liberals support the conclusions of the National Audit Office and the wording of the report. But there is reason to discuss this issue further, and it is also included in the Swedish National Audit Office's wording. Last autumn Boverket provided some statistics. 143 municipalities then had a balance in the availability of care homes or special accommodations. 130 didn't have it. Some thought – I don't have the number in my head – that you would be able to balance it in two years' time. Others couldn't do it even within five years. Then there is a reason to dive deep into the situation – we all want it to be good for the residents. Then you can look at: What is the cost of home help for those who would need to move? What does it cost for relatives to care for their loved ones? And what was won on Kungsholmen by offering service houses and shelters? It could show that the need for care and nursing homes was postponed and reduced. There's a lot to count on here. The main thing is that it will be good for the individual, but money talk. We must also look at the costs so that we use our tax money effectively. So there is a lot to do.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-197	Madam President, I would like In my previous speech, I spoke about the importance of allocating more general financial support to the elderly care of municipalities, as investment aid for the construction of special housing has not been successful. I would therefore like to support our reservations Nos 2 and 6 in the report.
i-EhWD3pTTTWqDxaDLenQxrc	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the Transport Committee's report 7, Road safety, with some 110 requests from the general period of exercise. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of our Amendment No 20 tabled by S, MP and V and, in general, for the proposal contained in the report. Madam President, I would like WHO estimates that road accidents will be the fifth most common cause of death in the world in 2030. Road safety work is an important area both internationally and in Sweden. It is about ensuring that we can move together in society and in the traffic environment and work together on the surfaces that exist without the risk of injury, serious accidents and death. There is a broad consensus on the importance of prioritising road safety, and this is something that has led to Sweden being and still today being a pioneer country. I am thinking not least of the work and development of the zero vision. That is why, Madam President, I would like to stress the importance of the government now working clearly on the realisation of the new start for the zero vision developed by the Social Democratic-led government in 2016. It is the Finnish Transport Administration that is now responsible for leading the work. The Zerovision itself gives a very important signal that Sweden, although we are a leading nation in this area, does not give up and continues to have high ambitions when it comes to having a safe traffic environment. In Trafikverket's work there are three priority areas: unprotected road users, sobriety and speed compliance. I will touch on these parts in a slightly different way, but I would first like to say something about road safety work in general. Since the turn of the millennium, road deaths have halved, but in the previous year we saw an increase in the number of injured and killed traffic. According to the preliminary statistics from Tr ansportstyrelsen, a total of 325 persons were killed in road traffic. This is an increase from 2017, when 253 people died. The rate of decline in the number of injured and killed stopped a few years ago. We therefore saw the importance of taking a move – hence the new start for the zero vision. The proposal, which produced the zero vision, stressed that the vision set out the direction and the long-term objective of road safety and that responsibility for the work should be shared between road users and the public and private bodies responsible for the design and operation of different parts of the road transport system as well as for different support schemes for road safety. This is an example that demonstrates the need for cooperation in order to achieve zero vision. Madam President, I would like The issue of the need for alcoboms has been discussed for a long time, not least in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. We Social Democrats have worked long and hard for implementation and now finally see that it is approaching. It is and has been important that the implementation takes place gradually and with broad consensus in the industry. But it is the Finnish Transport Agency and the Swedish Police Authority, together with other actors, that decide exactly how the introduction can take place. However, the objective is clear. It's about making sure that no one drives drunk driving on our roads. In my constituency Skåne County's southern part, I have the privilege of being close to the ports of both Ystad and Trelleborg. I myself have spoken to the port of Trelleborg, where it is clear that one will shortly be one of the first ports facing alco-boms. The drivers who drive off the ferries down in Trelleborg or in any other of our ports drive straight out into a busy urban environment and straight out through Skåne or any other part of the country. Being able to ensure that drivers leaving the port do not drive drink-driving is therefore a very important measure from the point of view of road safety. I am very pleased that the harbour of Trelleborg is now one of those who have reported that they want to be involved in introducing alcobommar. I look forward to more ports falling behind to ensure greater road safety. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight in particular some other important measures taken by the government in line with the re-launch of the zero vision. In the near future, attention has been paid to the risk of accidents at the unattended railway crossings. The Government has commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to take measures to increase safety at level crossings at the state railway. This is an example of a very important measure. Madam President, I would like We also know that speed is an important factor in bringing accidents down to traffic. This is something that not least important organisations like NTF point out and work actively with. During the last term of office, Trafikverket implemented speed reduction measures, and more speed cameras have been introduced and continue to be introduced. At the same time, however, we see that almost half of all road users do not comply with speed limits. It's a danger to road safety. With regard to specific measures to safeguard the traffic environment of vulnerable road users, I would like to highlight, among other things, the measures and regulatory changes that we discussed in this House about a month ago in connection with the bicycle report. Cyclists, like vulnerable road users, are a category that is particularly vulnerable. Madam President, I would like Since our reservation concerns the issue of illegal driving school-like activities, I would also like to touch on this issue. During the last parliamentary term, the Social Democratic-led Government introduced an important reform that allowed more young people to take their driving licences through loans from CSN. It is important that it is not a class question who should be able to take a driving licence and thus have the opportunity to get their first job. But it's not just the economy that's important. We must also ensure that it is of sufficient quality in education. I note that there has now been a review of the driver training system, which is very important. This review is currently being prepared at the Government Office. It is important to take note of the conclusions drawn in that review. We therefore believe that it is unreasonable to propose, in the midst of this process, a very comprehensive study with specific guidelines. Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear that we are in agreement. The quality of education must be improved and illegal driving school-like activities must be stopped. The measures now being taken to stop fraud at driver tests are important. But more concrete steps must be taken. Finally, as a social democrat, I would like to emphasise that order and order of our roads are in themselves a major and crucial part of road safety work. I am thinking, in particular, of sleeping and rest times, of vehicles having the right tyres and never being overloaded and of competition under fair conditions.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-216	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating and deciding on report TU7 on road safety. First of all, I would like to highlight an extremely important issue, namely that we must tackle the illegal driving licences that exist in Sweden. It is not reasonable for people to travel around this country without either education or valid driving licences. We have made that clear in one of our reservations. We want it to be more flexible to switch from winter tires to summer tires. Sweden is a long and elongated country with many different zones when it comes to snow and heat. Today there is snow in the northern part of Sweden and spring warm in the southern part of Sweden. It goes without saying that it must be as flexible as possible to switch from winter tires to summer tyres. We want a clearer penalty for those people who do not care if they have driven too fast here in Sweden or have illegal driving licences. We need to have a clearer regulatory framework to get to grips with this. It is not reasonable to avoid fines and other charges in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The report as a whole deals with the design of roads, safety, vehicles, aids and equipment, and driving licence training. First, however, we can state that road safety is high in Sweden and that Sweden has worked with road safety issues for a long time. We have come a long way in this work, and vehicle manufacturers in Sweden are leading in many areas in the work to develop road safety. But there is still much to be done. That work must continue and be improved. For example, there is still a lack of good roads for motorcyclists. Wireways increase the safety of motorists but may increase the risk of damage to our bikers. There is still much to be done here. The speed of the major roads needs to be increased. This applies both to increase accessibility and to reduce travel time. Madam President, I would like Our roads need to be expanded and upgraded, and more four-lane roads are needed with good safety and increased accessibility. Sweden is a large and sparsely populated country that requires good roads throughout Sweden. The car and road transport are extremely important for the whole of Sweden to work. That is why we must now consider both road safety and increased accessibility. In order to reduce queues and get fewer stops in traffic, roads with increased capacity must be built. The work of electrifying our roads must be stepped up. It means much greater environmental benefits to electrify our major roads instead of building new unprofitable high-speed trains. Heavy road transport is the bloodstream for jobs and growth in Sweden. They have to work. The carrying capacity on the roads must be able to cope with heavy transport. There must be more and better monitoring of sobriety. The Alliance has previously investigated and suggested that alcoboms be set up at our border stations to stop onyktra drivers from entering our Swedish roads. But the S-government has now, in its five years in power, done nothing to get these alco-boms up in our ports or at our border stations. The Riksdag has on several occasions made clear decisions that the alco-bommers should rise, but nothing has happened for five years with this sosse government. What was investigated and clear already in the Alliance in 2014 has not been implemented in these five years, and still there is not a single alcobom set up in our ports or at our border stations. This is a paralysed government that is unable to make a workshop of Parliament's decisions. On 1 July 2018, Madam President, the first facility would have been in place, and everyone can see that there will soon be another year's delay. Another important issue that the government has not solved is the need for more traffic police to actively pursue illegal commercial traffic. These illegal vehicles are currently a road safety risk and they distort competition and destroy the legal commercial traffic of the country. Madam President, I would like Our cars are becoming more and more equipped with various help functions, which further increases safety. The cars of the future will certainly be self-driving, which means that technology and computers will take over the work of drivers more and more. This is similar to developments in aviation. Technology demands new solutions and new social plans. This is where politics must be speeded up to keep up. Otherwise, the government risks slowing down development in Sweden. It is important for our car manufacturers that they can continue to research, test and develop these systems in Sweden. It creates jobs and growth in the country. Madam President, I would like One of the most important issues for road safety is driving education and that more people really take driving licences. It provides jobs, opportunities to live and work throughout the country as well as increased knowledge of traffic. Unfortunately, there have long been problems with black, illegal traffic schools. Often the student may think that you go to a real traffic school, but the training is conducted by people who lack knowledge, ignore laws and regulations, and do not pay taxes and fees. Madam President, I would like This must be combated. In addition, there are problems with many students after inadequate education chances to drive up. This contributes to unnecessarily long waiting times and queues to the Swedish Transport Administration's driving times. Madam President, I would like As early as last year, a united traffic committee announced to the government that proposals would be made on how to deal with illegal traffic schools. Unfortunately, the government did not listen to the Transport Committee and did not deliver solutions to the problem. The government simply ignored the directive of the Transport Committee. This is serious. Now, a clear majority in the Committee on Transport and Tourism has once again put its foot down – and this time it is a real one. The committee calls for the Black Traffic Schools to be taken into account and for the number of permits granted to students as a supervisor to be limited to a maximum of ten. Often used cars with double-command are used in black, illegal traffic operations. In the future, there must be a permit. We must be in control of the cars so that they are not used in the black traffic school business. These proposals could have been put forward by the government a year ago if one had been a little sensitive to what the Riksdag said on that occasion. It is serious that the government is ignoring what the Committee on Transport and Tourism is proposing. We see these proposals as a first step towards making it more difficult for and removing illegal traffic schools. In fact, the government in Sweden must now wake up and act. Madam President, I would like The committee also wants a broader investigation to be set up with the task of eliminating illegal traffic schools, modernising and renewing driver training, short driving queues and enabling the switch-off of the second grade. The driving schools have proposed a regulatory framework that would make it easier for them when the student has made a small error during the run-up. Then the student in that situation could train a few times extra on the moment that went wrong and then get the driving license. Traffic schools have made many good suggestions. These proposals have been completely ignored by the government. It may also be useful to review the question of whether different driving licences are needed to drive a car with an automatic gearbox or a manually switched car. Another proposal is to introduce fixed driving times for traffic schools, which can help if they see one student developing better than another student. Then you can easily change places for these at the run-up times. These are simple and clear proposals put forward by the transport schools, and the government could have included the proposals in the investigation already a year ago. But the government skipped to take note of the suggestions the choir schools put forward. It is also necessary to review the costs and charges of taking driving licences today. It is important that more people take a driving licence. Madam President, I would like We expect the government to urgently set up a new investigation and that there will soon be a number of proposals for improvement on the table of the Transport Committee for new decisions. We note that the government should have put alco-boms at our border stations, put forward more traffic police officers, put forward legislation on modernising driving education, removed illegal traffic schools, reduced waiting times and made it easier for more people to get driving times. All of this has been ignored by the government despite the fact that a year ago there was a large majority in the Swedish Parliament to proceed with these proposals. Madam President, I would like The car and transport on the roads are absolutely crucial and necessary if the whole of Sweden is to work. Madam President, I would like I support reservations 2, 9, 21 and 23.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-242	Madam President, I would like The heading of Report No 7 of the Committee on Transport and Tourism is: Road safety. For me, who have devoted almost all my adult life to road safety, the issue is important. Last year, 2018, 325 people did not come home to their loved ones. Each of these victims has a large circle of people around them. It's parents, children, siblings, family and friends. Thus, road deaths affect a large number of people. 325 people; think about that number for a moment. In this House there are 349 Members. Almost as many people died in traffic in 2018. It lights up what we're talking about here today. Road safety is something that concerns all of us. It is important that we in this House act to increase safety on our roads. We Swedish democrats support all our reservations in the report, but for time to come, I only call for reservations 13 and 15. Madam President, I would like Road safety must start at primary school. Getting knowledge of how to behave, walk and ride in traffic at an early age is a good basis for developing into a safe user. We Swedish democrats believe that children benefit from this knowledge later in life, when it is time for a moped, motorcycle or car. Some of the children will also become professional drivers and then get the way as a workplace. It is therefore important that driving licence training is of good quality. In committee, we have been told how extensive the cheating of black driving schools is. The driver's licence candidate has simply not acquired the necessary knowledge because he who is a driving instructor himself does not have enough knowledge to act as a teacher. This means that the student is too poorly equipped for a driving and a life as a vehicle driver. We also got an account of the extent of cheating at the driver's tests. This development must necessarily be broken, and black traffic schools must be combated by every possible means. If we are to achieve our road safety goals, education must be quality assured. Then there's no room for black and cheating traffic schools. Madam President, I would like In 2017, 81 people were killed in alcohol or drug-related traffic accidents. That's 32% of all road deaths that year. According to the Swedish Transport Agency, one in five drivers of a motor vehicle that died in traffic in the last ten years has been affected by alcohol. According to the research, every 500 cars have an alcoholic driver behind the wheel. It is a frightening figure that should be considered. So every 500 cars you meet out there have an alcoholic driver. We know that the risks increase significantly with affected drivers. Unfortunately, statistics also show an increased number of deaths involving alcohol or drugs. The Swedish Democrats believe that the number of drugs and alcohol-related controls must increase significantly. In 2009, the police conducted 2.7 million exhalation tests. Last year the figure was down to 957 700 samples. It's a dramatic decrease. From the point of view of road safety, this development is not acceptable. Madam President, I would like Work done on the road or near the road is associated with great risks as many motorists do not respect signs or warning lights. Every year, several people are killed and injured while doing work on or near the road. Road workers, towers, rescue services and police are particularly vulnerable. I managed my own life just now and barely on a late winter night in 1997. Two years later, a colleague of mine was getting hit by a car at an accident site. For some reason motorists do not accept and respect the warning lights on both vehicles and signs. So-called TMA vehicles are used as protection for various work on the road. You have certainly seen these vehicles with their large airbags at the back. These vehicles have the task of drawing the attention of other road users to an ongoing work with their presence and equipment. Despite both signs and warning lights, TMA vehicles are hit, and these collisions are increasing in frequency. Although the TMA vehicles are designed in such a way that a driver in an approaching vehicle will be aware of an obstacle in front of them, it is possible to ask why. The situation is not acceptable. I often talk to people who experience insecurity while working on the road. This development must be reversed, and for us Swedish democrats it is a priority. Those who work on the roads do so in order for the rest of us to arrive safely. Then we have to show those who work on the road respect, and we best do that by keeping the speed down. Madam President, I would like Road safety concerns us all, and we in the Swedish Parliament have the tools to increase safety on our roads. Do I need to add that we need more traffic police?
i-Wih5171krR4acYEiMGbuac	An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson, Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Annika Strandhäll and Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-258	Madam President, I would like There are today two obvious problems with the state's ownership of Telia. Firstly, in the event of a possible acquisition of Bonnier Broadcasting, the State risks having an unsound influence on the media market. Secondly, the fact that the State is today a passive minority shareholder does not fully advise and control the security-sensitive systems in the company. Today, a majority in the Riksdag has asked the Government to investigate the conditions for divesting the commercial parts of Telia. In return, the state can have full discretion over these systems. Ibrahim Baylan has been critical of this but has not specified what he wants to do instead. What is the alternative solution of the government to these two problems, which we could solve on a single board by means of the parliamentary announcement today?
i-TCFqd8t3XXfxhhmUphaZ76	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, for the question! It is strange to correct Members of Parliament, but it is still appropriate to say that there has not been a vote on an announcement from the Riksdag here today – I am well aware of that. The fact that the Committee on Economic Affairs has obviously dealt with the issue is one thing, but the Riksdag as a whole will handle this well in the future. The answer to the question is as follows, Madam President: the Swedish Armed Forces advise against this ideological sale. A united defence committee advises against this sale. Why do they do that? Because this exposes Sweden to unnecessary safety risks. The order we have now has been in for a very long time – also under bourgeois governments – and it has kept. But now it is blind ideology that applies. Now it will be sold, regardless of the price of national security.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-266	Madam President, I would like It is certainly true that there was a committee adjustment today and that there is a debate next week. The fact remains, however, that the state does not have full discretion over these systems today. What the Armed Forces have said is that a sale without any kind of compensation in the form of increased consultation of the systems would be foolish, and I think everyone in this House agrees with that. We want us to get more advice over the systems by switching the commercial part of Telia towards this. The question is what the government wants to do. There are no suggestions on the table.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-268	Madam President, I would like Should it be the case that next week the Riksdag will decide on this, we will of course deal with it in the serious way that we always do with the Riksdag's announcements. The state currently has 37.3 percent of the shares in Telia. The state is a dominant owner and often has a majority in the general meetings. This also has a fairly strong influence on what the board looks like, and that is why the Swedish Armed Forces advise against selling at the moment.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-270	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. In the autumn of 2017, the Swedish Work Environment Authority initiated a national supervision of elderly care. The mission has not yet been completed, but nine out of ten workplaces have shortcomings in the working environment. Many of these shortcomings relate to the fact that the employer has not investigated risks, assessed risks or addressed risks at work. Many feel that the workload is far too high in relation to resources. The pace is too high, and time is not enough. I know that it is the employer who should keep track of what requirements are made and whether the resources are sufficient and, if necessary, fix this. However, as things stand, the health of staff is at risk because the workload is not adapted to resources. There is a great need to improve the working environment and preventive work environment within elderly care. My question is: how does the Minister intend to ensure that these shortcomings are actually addressed?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-275	Madam President, I would like This is an extremely important issue. What Carina Ståhl Herrstedt here talks about shows how wise it was for the previous government to invest in the work environment, invest in many more inspectors at the Swedish Work Environment Agency and develop a new work environment strategy. The occupational health and safety strategy included the task of carrying out the special review of care for the elderly, which is now being carried out and which shows appalling results: 90% of the cases are complaints. This shows why we must continue to prioritise work environment management and continue to prioritise resources for welfare rather than tax cuts, so that there can be more employees and a more reasonable workload for all those working in the extremely important elderly care.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-277	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer. It is great that the number of occupational health and safety inspectors has increased, although this does not relieve the shortage of staff in the care of the elderly itself. However, despite the increase, only around 4% of workplaces actually receive a visit from the inspection, and only then will they remedy their shortcomings. How does the Minister intend to ensure that workers in the other 96% of workplaces actually have an improved working environment?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-279	Madam President, I would like Let me be quite frank: it is not reasonable for tax-funded, democratically managed activities to require inspectors from the Swedish Work Environment Authority to have a reasonable working environment. Here municipalities and county councils as employers must take a completely different responsibility for systematic work environment management. I am in dialogue with SKL, and will renew this dialogue when a new leadership is in place soon.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-281	Madam President, I would like I will continue with the occupational safety and health aspect, but it is now about the occupational injury benefit. I turn to the Minister for Social Security. For me, the occupational injury benefit we have today is the most unequal remuneration in our financial security systems. This is a scandal, I think, because it affects women very much. Women do not meet the requirements for even being investigated as to whether they have an occupational injury. I understand that backs that get injured in healthcare or patients who hurt the staff who work are not compared to someone who falls down from a ladder, for example. There has been an investigation into this, and the government has done nothing despite the fact that it is two years since the investigation came.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-284	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Solveig Zander, for an important issue in the field of health and safety at work! The ill health in Sweden today looks completely different than it did 20 years ago. Then there was more dominance of physical ill health. Today we see that women in particular are affected by mental illness. Our occupational injury insurance does not really cover the ill health we see in the labour market today – hence the investigation that we set up during the last term of office. Some suggestions were put forward to improve occupational injury insurance at the margin, but there is also a need to take stock and re-launch efforts to ensure that women are also able to feel safe about having their occupational injury tested in a legally secure way.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-287	Madam President, I would like There were several proposals, and several consultation bodies felt that some of the proposals could be taken forward, which would help to ensure that we have more equal work injury insurance and that women would receive their legitimate financial compensation for having an occupational injury. But the government hasn't done anything. Why are you not doing anything about this important issue of equality?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-288	Madam President, I would like You can't say the government hasn't done anything. After many years with a bourgeois government that did not act on the issue of occupational injury insurance, we appointed an inquiry during the last term of office. We did just that to see, with the occupational injury insurance we have today, what is possible to do. I have, of course, also taken note of the referrals and I can see that this is not the case, but we need to do even more and are also prepared to take such an initiative.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-289	Madam President, I would like At home in Gävleborg, over 10,000 of those enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen are far from the labour market. They are dependent on the assistance of professional workers with local knowledge. But now they won't get it anymore because only half of the offices are expected to remain – and that in the county with the highest unemployment rate year after year. Even now, after the huge savings, people at home are being denied education. Execution insurance cannot be received and staff escapes. Giant savings and on top of that a neoliberal experiment with large privatizations are paid for by the most vulnerable in the labour market and by the most vulnerable regions, such as Gävleborg. Have you made any impact assessments for the vulnerable and for municipalities and regions? And why don't you stop this gigantic experiment? What does Minister Ylva Johansson have to say to those who need the most support and are those who are affected?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-292	Madam President, I would like This is an important question that Ulla Andersson is asking. I would like to take this opportunity to say that the Government believes that the decision taken today by the Director-General of the Public Employment Service to close 132 offices is a premature decision. There will soon be an assignment to Arbetsförmedlingen that will affect how you need to make decisions regarding the office issue. One must take a holistic approach to having an orderly process and ensure that we have a state presence throughout the country and ensure that operations are not extinguished before there are viable alternatives. We will ensure that people both in Gävleborg and in other parts of the country will be entitled to the support and assistance that you need when you are far from the labour market and need society's efforts to get the important work.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-294	Madam President, I would like My supplementary question will then be: will the employment agency therefore be given a great deal of resources to keep the employees? After all, they are the basis for meeting the unemployed who are far from the labour market. Their skills and training are needed, and there is no money for that today. That is also why these closure decisions are being taken. My question will be to the Government: will you therefore provide enormous resources in the spring change budget that is coming? I'd think the answer would be no.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-296	Madam President, I would like The Public Employment Service is facing a major reform. The current budget will go down to 9 000 employees. It's the same level of staff they had ten years ago, and then they had over 300 offices. The staff is the most important resource for Arbetsförmedlingen. They have an incredibly important competence. This is precisely why it is important not to make hasty decisions, but to have an orderly process and not to turn off activities until there are viable alternatives in place.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-297	Madam President, I would like My question is of a general political nature. The number of first-time applications for personal assistance has fallen significantly since 2015. Recent figures from Försäkringskassan that the National Association for Disabled Children and Young People, RBU, has processed also show that there are very large regional differences in who received government assistance last year. In Västernorrland, Västerbotten, Jämtland and Gotland not a single new application was granted, while in Värmland there were as many as 41 per cent of those who applied for the first time who received yes. I do not think that the proportion of the population in need of assistance varies so much between the different regions. My question to the Government is therefore whether the government thinks it reasonable that there are such large regional differences and whether the government is willing to take any steps to ensure that the Authority has a legally sound assessment so that the person who needs assistance will get it no matter where in the country you live.
i-JpYzSEKyE1yhunaxyyA9US	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland, for the question! The answer is no, it is not acceptable with such large regional differences. It is a sign that there is a need to strengthen legal certainty in the assessments and decisions. Let me also emphasise that it is not the intention for everyone to have an equal assessment, but it is important that all individuals who have the right to assistance really also have that right granted and enforced. Strengthening of the LSS is included in the January agreement concluded between the four cooperation parties.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-302	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for your answer. I'm glad. We Christian Democrats look with great concern at the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's progress report for 2019, Actions and support for people with disabilities. The report shows that children who have lost municipal and state personal assistance increasingly end up in children's homes.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-305	Madam President, I would like It was one of the main features of the LSS reform when it was implemented that we should not put children in an institution but that one should have the opportunity to live with one's family. All of us who know parents who have severely disabled children who need extensive support know what extremely heavy and extensive work the parents are already doing. It is important that we have effective assistance that enables children and parents to live together.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-307	Madam President, I would like I am looking for answers from Minister Strandhäll about vab. A chronically ill child carries his illness around the clock all his little life, even in school and preschool. I myself would not dare to leave my child if I did not know that the staff has the knowledge needed to prevent my child from danger. Nor would I feel safe as a teacher if I did not know enough to recognize symptoms or take blood tests, interpret answers and give medication. Yet the Social Insurance Agency today has to deny the parents vab to teach this, despite the medical certificate. This must change, as I and the Liberals see it, for the sake of the parents, for the sake of the staff, and very much for the sake of the children. Can Minister Strandhäll and the government consider initiating such a change?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-310	Madam President, I would like Of course, you should be able to feel safe even if you have a child with chronic illness such as diabetes when you leave the child at school. As legislation stands today, it is precisely the school that has the responsibility to ensure that employees are in place who have the necessary knowledge to ensure that the child has the security needed during the school day and during school. However, I also know that there was a change of application at the end of the last parliamentary term and that in the past there was a more generous interpretation of child care. We have begun to look at the question, and it is up to date on my table.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-313	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister Strandhäll, for your answer! That makes me very relieved and hopeful, for some children's illnesses never go away, and their parents, of course, must know that the children receive the right support. It is crazy that the rules today class the child as healthy on the way to preschool or school and then as sick again on the way home, so this law enforcement is important. When, Minister Strandhäll, can families expect a more dignified and secure life?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-316	Madam President, I would like As I said, the question has been raised. Then, of course, the question must be asked whether there are changes in the vab that we should focus on or whether the excellent family week that we agree on in the January agreement could also be a solution, namely that parents should be able to be more present in the everyday lives of children.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-318	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan linked to the security aspects of State ownership in Telia. Today, the Committee on Economic Affairs has adjusted a report that will be discussed in the Chamber next week, where the Moderates and the Right want the Government to review the possibility of selling Telia Company AB. During the examination of the case, the wording of a sale of the entire company has also been strengthened, although the Swedish Armed Forces, among other things, say that this can have serious consequences for Sweden. Personally, I get pissed off when ideology is put before national security. My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is therefore: How does the Government view the security aspect of State ownership in Telia?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-321	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mathias Tegnér, for an important question! There should be no doubt whatsoever, either in this House or in Sweden in general, that the government will in any case protect Sweden's national security. Nor should there be any doubt that we take the Swedish Armed Forces' opinion, which strongly advises against this policy in the most serious way. If the Riksdag, despite the advice of the Armed Forces and a united defence committee, still chooses to do so, we will of course look through it and do so in the most serious way possible. But there should be no doubt whatsoever that the Swedish Government always puts Sweden's national security first.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-324	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It makes me safe. Another discussion that has come up on this issue is a possible division of Telia. The company management's business strategy goes in a completely different direction, so I think there are initially many who have been very sceptical about the idea of a split or a buyout. Nevertheless, I would like to hear what effects the Government sees of such proposals.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-326	Madam President, I would like We must be aware that if the state is to share this company, it must be owned. The state doesn't today. At the current stock market rate, it would take an additional 150 – 160 billion out of the Treasury to do so. Then I think that sometimes it is a misthinking when it comes to sharing. Think about how Telia used to be with copper networks and services. With today's digitalisation it has become much more complicated. We should be aware of that.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-328	Madam President, I would like In January 2018, the government announced that a number of authorities would be relocated from Stockholm. The decision was motivated by the fact that the whole of Sweden should live. Among other things, Sida's head office would move from Valhallavägen to Botkyrka. The move will be both long and expensive. There are no suitable premises in Botkyrka, but new production must be made. An impact assessment shows that the cost of consul fees alone is estimated at 60 million, and the total price tag is estimated to land at 100s million. In addition, many employees are also expected to leave the agency. The move of Sida's head office from one station on the red line to another will, if carried out, probably be Sweden's most expensive address change. It is now clear that this decision was ill-considered. My question is therefore to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi: Will the government release the prestige of Sida's move?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-332	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magdalena Schröder, for the question! We never get the question why we do not act anymore so that the costs of the state authorities operating from Stockholm's inner city will fall, but the questions always come when we relocate operations to suburbs and to locations other than Stockholm. No, we are not going to back off the relocation policy. I visited the Swedish Real Estate Inspectorate in Karlstad yesterday. It was claimed in this House that moving that business from Stockholm to Karlstad would be a disaster. But, Madam President, the activities are conducted with the highest quality in Karlstad. It's no problem finding the right staff. I am convinced that relocation to Botkyrka will also work well.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-337	Madam President, I would like I may sense a rift in the government, but I also note that the Government will not let go of prestige. Two impact assessments show that this will be more expensive, not only temporarily but also in the long term. It will also be more difficult for Sida to carry out its activities. If you want more state presence, I think that Botkyrka would have preferred to have chosen more police than an aid authority, which also makes it more difficult to carry out its activities. This is nothing more than an expensive change of address, and taxpayers will have to take the bill.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-341	Madam President, I would like I still do not understand why Magdalena Schröder believes that it is prestige to want to move state operations from Stockholm's inner city. Is it cheaper to be in the inner city of Stockholm? Are the premises used by the said authority today at an address known for cheap rents? Madam President, I would like I'll leave the questions unanswered. But this discussion will certainly continue.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-344	Madam President, I would like Increased problems with mental illness are today a major problem in Sweden that must be taken very seriously. We can also see that sick leave due to psychiatric diagnosis is an increasing problem, and a particularly vulnerable occupational group is women in the public sector. And as if the vulnerability to mental illness is not enough, these people should also be met by a system that is not adapted for psychiatric diagnoses. You get hard-to-understand information from Försäkringskassan and are at worst insured before you are ready to work. Countless evidence exists from people who experience the whole process and contact with Försäkringskassan as an additional stress imposed that impairs the possibility of recovery. The government has recently received an announcement to investigate the handling of people who have been affected by mental illness. My question to Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll is what the government intends to do to take seriously the issue of increased sick leave due to mental illness and what concrete proposals there are regarding possibilities for rehabilitation and a legally secure process.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-348	Madam President, I would like Basically, the problem of women's increased risk of ill health stems from workplaces where there are very many women working in a worse working environment. This is also due, in particular, to the fact that we still have unequal responsibilities for children, homes and families. Women still take a much greater share of the responsibility. The combination of this leads to stress and sick leave. When you end up in ill health and sick leave you should of course have the support that you need to first, hopefully, get back to health again and secondly, hopefully, get back to work again. We know that mental illness is creeping down in the old age and that far too many women unfortunately get sick leave for long periods. We worked hard on this during the last term of office together with the social partners, among others, and we intend to continue working during this term of office.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-351	Madam President, I would like I agree that the working environment is a major problem where action must be taken and that we must make it easier for families with children. With regard to the health insurance process, the Swedish Democrats have proposed maintaining compensation for, for example, testing studies for six months, flexible sick leave and simplified opportunities to try another profession, because sometimes it is the workplace that is the problem, as the Government highlighted, as well as a softer assessment at day 180 in the area of competence. The Social Democrats have voted against all these proposals. Why?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-353	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats, together with the Green Party, carried out many reforms in this area during the previous term of office: coordinators in the health care sector, a new work environment strategy and a regulation for the social and organisational work environment. We've provided special funds for rehabilitation. We received a new legislation at the mid-year end of last year which obliges employers to make efforts early on in a case of illness, and we will continue to work on this during our term of office.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-356	Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister for Economic Affairs is about the government's examination of applications for processing concessions under the Minerals Act. A processing concession is only one of all the permits required to eventually be able to start a mining operation. In recent years this type of case has been piled up on the government table. The Minister for Industry has a large pile to pick up, and the cases have long processing times. The industry, rights holders and communities are waiting for information after years of waiting, and they are in great need of decisions. The government's slow management creates uncertainty about the rules of the game and hampers investment. This, together with other factors, risks impairing Sweden's attractiveness as a prospecting and mining country.
i-Vm5yhSuc3PR5QKBeYZ7jmM	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linda Ylivainio, for an important question! We can put it in context. We are right now at the beginning of a necessary change in the way we do things in our societies. The climate crisis we are experiencing requires the electrification of society, and we know that minerals and metals are central to doing this. Electric cars, for example, are not made on the internet but in ordinary factories. Batteries and more will be needed, and Sweden has good conditions there. I share to some extent Linda Ylivainio frustration that we have a rather cumbersome process. How are we to ensure that we can take advantage of people's legitimate interest that nothing happens in their vicinity and that they have something to say about but also environmental aspects while taking advantage of the fact that Sweden has many of the minerals and metals required for a total electrification in the long run of our societies?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-361	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Industry for his answer. Nevertheless, I would like to stress the importance of the government now taking urgent action on matters and making decisions. In addition to difficult balance of interests, there are also important legal, fundamental issues that need to be resolved. Any review of the Government's decision may land in the Supreme Administrative Court, which in turn may further extend the duration of proceedings. I assume that the government will quickly eliminate the current legal uncertainty by starting to settle matters.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-364	Madam President, I would like I am on my ninth week as Minister for Enterprise, and I can assure you that from the first week we began to look at these issues. My assessment is that we can and must ensure that the necessary decisions are made, but unfortunately I do not think that that is enough. Perhaps there is reason to look at how the system works, to protect the environmental interest, climate interest, people's interest and our interest in being able to do a good job. I am happy to do this with the Center Party.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-367	Madam President, I would like The general debate hears the government parties argue that secular free schools are part of a major social problem that contributes to pupils' exclusion, increased segregation, intolerance, extremism and neglect. Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi was one of those who diluted this picture in the election movement and compared our secular schools with the imam school he was forced to attend as a child. I believe that there is no indication that religious free schools, most of which are Christians, would contribute more to the problem than municipal schools or other free schools. It's the other way around. The vast majority of religious free schools are run by a Christian principal whose schools usually have a broad mix of nationalities, religious affiliations, and so on.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-370	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jimmy Loord, for an important question! The government's starting point, which is also stated in the January agreement, is that the Swedish schools should be run without secular or religious elements, that we should be a secular state, that the Swedish school should be secular and offer all students the opportunity to freely choose religion and have the opportunity to form an opinion on religious and philosophical issues and that the school should be a meeting place for people with different backgrounds. I am convinced that this is the right path that the government and the cooperation parties have chosen, and a good first step is to put an end to the creation of religious free schools.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-373	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I agree with everything you say, Ardalan Shekarabi, and I believe that the order and the tools we have today to control schools and ensure that they follow both the school team and the curriculum is an adequate toolbox. I'd rather be worried when we stick labels on each other and unscrupulously strain prejudice. When the map does not correspond with reality, politics goes astray, and I think that is clear on this issue.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-376	Madam President, I would like I am convinced that we must ask ourselves whether more religious free schools will lead to less segregation in our society and whether more religious free schools will give children and young people the opportunity to choose their religion, lifestyle and philosophical orientation. Nevertheless, it is an obligation that we have for our children and young people to give them this freedom and to ensure that the school is a meeting place.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-378	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. Swedish Television in Blekinge has carried out a review showing how entrepreneurs in Blekinge have cheated their employees, falsified invoices and received compensation from the Swedish Public Employment Service, despite the fact that the company had large tax debts. The turnover of staff has been high, and several employees have testified to unclear employment relationships, long working weeks, lack of supervision support and denied leave. The same entrepreneur picked up RUT money from both his own staff and the staff's relatives. In the business model reviewed by SVT News in Blekinge, the money has mainly been used to cover salary costs and buy antiques in exchange for e.g. moving and cleaning services.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-381	Madam President, I would like Heléne Björklund's question is extremely important and serious. It is offensive and serious for confidence in society when rogue and purely criminal companies can behave in this way at the expense of taxpayers. In the case of fraud involving employment aid, the government wants to tighten up the control of those who use such aid. This will be facilitated when we receive monthly data, and it can be facilitated by the proposals that the government has received, which have to be able to make another check to ensure access to other agencies' registers so that the Public Employment Service can exercise more effective control. It is often argued in favour of RUT deductions to make it easier for people who are far from the labour market to get a job and for more such jobs to emerge. Instead, when tax evasion is carried out, it is an important issue for the Minister of Finance, who has already given priority to many issues in order to tackle tax evasion.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-384	Madam President, I would like Personally, I think it's good that companies can get support to hire people who otherwise find it difficult to get a job. But it is very bad when it is cheated with the supports.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-386	Madam President, I would like We plan to improve the possibilities for Arbetsförmedlingen to tighten up the control of companies that receive wage subsidies and thus receive large amounts of tax money that are important for people to be able to get a job that they would not otherwise have received. Those companies that cheat in a criminal way, misappropriate the regulatory framework and shoe themselves at the expense of taxpayers make the situation more difficult for all employers – the majority of them – who comply with the regulatory framework and who use employment support as intended.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-389	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. The Swedish Security Service's annual report for 2018 clearly indicates that Chinese industrial espionage poses an increasing threat to Swedish industry. Earlier this week a report from FOI was also presented, which says that these Chinese thefts of technology will affect Sweden financially and will also affect the competitiveness of Swedish companies. There are already examples of companies that have chosen to relocate their research and development activities in Sweden to other countries, as protection against industrial espionage in Sweden is perceived as too bad.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-392	Madam President, I would like We live in a time where we see a very strong technological development that means that we will get a total digitization of our industry, of course, but also of our society. That is basically a very positive thing. It increases efficiency and governance in a way that we could not even dream of a number of years ago. It will, of course, also increase productivity, which is good for our country. For Sweden there are not really any ifs and buts; that is the path that we must go to assert our competitiveness. The back of this is exactly what Pål Jonson talks about and that the Swedish Security Service and FOI naturally point to. Of course, it also increases vulnerability, as these effective tools can be used for several different things. We must not only watch out for this, but actively work with it, both in the public and in collaboration with the Swedish business community, to minimise opportunities for others to access what we do not want them to be able to access, whether it is China or any other country.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-394	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Industry for his answer, although it may not have been very specific precisely in terms of measures. I know a lot of this is in the Ministry of Justice. But I think it is extremely urgent that the Ministry of Industry should also be involved in this. There are a number of measures that could be taken, such as securing measures against foreign investments in critical infrastructure but also providing Swedish security services with opportunities to share information about Swedish companies, for example, are exposed to large-scale cyber attacks. This is therefore a matter both for our business community and for our security.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-395	Madam President, I would like No, it wasn't very concrete. Nor may it be the height of wisdom to state publicly in this House all the measures taken by the Security Service, the Government or the private business community. It risks undermining the very purpose. But I can assure Pål Jonson and those who listen that both today and in the future we must do our utmost to use this technology but also to minimise the risks both to the business community and to the public.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-396	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. Some time ago we were able to take part of the Swedish Public Employment Service's report Sweden's future employment, which was presented by Director General Mikael Sjöberg. It highlights the need for net immigration of at least 60 000 people annually to cope with Swedish welfare. The report is strongly challenged by both researchers and economists, who have neither taken into account the future employment rate of immigrants nor the future labour market in terms of structural change and digitalisation. It also ignores the increase in expenditure on both the state and the municipalities that an increase in asylum immigration entails. My question is therefore: is the Minister for Labour behind his Director-General's report, or does she have a different opinion on the matter?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-399	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a demographic challenge, and we are already in the middle of it. Around our country there is a shortage of the right labour force, that is, the workforce with the skills needed for the job vacancies. This applies in almost all sectors and at several different levels. This applies both to people with higher education and to people with shorter vocational training. In order to remedy this, there are many different things that are needed. Above all, we need to ensure that those who are currently outside the labour market are equipped with training so that they can take the job vacancies. There we have very good results from the local job tracks initiated during the last term of office. We need to work with better health, so that more people can, want and can work right up to retirement. We also need to ensure that we train to the right professions.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-401	Madam President, I would like Does the Minister not consider regulated and means-tested labour immigration to be a far better option than the continuation of mass immigration with its consequences for society?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-402	Madam President, I would like We need regulated labour immigration. This is particularly important for key competences in the labour market. Unlike Magnus Persson, I think it is important that Sweden stands up for the right of asylum. The fact that we are giving people fleeing war and hell a sanctuary in Sweden is not for labour market reasons but for humanitarian reasons, and we should continue to do so.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-405	Madam President, I would like I would like to address Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. My question is: what is the government planning to do to strengthen the local and regional presence of the authorities around the country? I ask the question on the basis that we have seen that in recent years authorities have centralised activities and concentrated jobs in larger locations. The countryside is the loser. I also ask the question on the basis that we now see that the authorities are planning to make changes. The Arbetsförmedlingen was mentioned here earlier by Ulla Andersson. But Kronofogden is another authority that now has on its agenda to move jobs from smaller towns to larger towns. This is very unfortunate. The country is being split, urbanisation is picking up, services are deteriorating and the labour market is also deteriorating. It makes it difficult for business to recruit if only private jobs are offered.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-408	Madam President, I would like I thank Per Åsling for the issue and for his commitment to these issues. This commitment is really needed. For a long time in Sweden – for several decades – we have also had a very strong centralisation in the state sector. This was also the reason why, during the last parliamentary term, the government initiated several measures, including 21 decisions on the relocation of authorities to other parts of the country. While this was questioned by conservative right-wing parties in here, we are very proud that this process started. With regard to the investment in service offices, only ten new service offices were opened in 2018 in those places with the worst state presence. This will continue. Today, at the government meeting, we have decided to commission the county administrative boards to map the state's service presence in all 290 municipalities. What about the presence of the state? Which authorities are there? Which authorities meet the citizens? On this basis, we will take further decisions on measures.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-410	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I think it is good that the government is obviously now investing in looking at how the presence of government agencies is around the country and at the municipal level. But this also makes me bold to ask: should the government not also take a decision on a moratorium to stop the closure and concentration of offices until new decisions are in place?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-412	Madam President, I would like Per Åsling's question is very relevant. One of the things we are working on right now is to ensure that we get proper governance by the authorities regarding decisions on location. The government has been working on the localisation regulation, which has been referred. It sets out how such decisions are to be taken, how impact assessments are to be carried out and how each authority is to deal with these major decisions. It is ultimately a matter of the state's total presence in different locations. The government intends to come back with the question of the localisation regulation and the governance of the authorities on this issue.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-414	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Annika Strandhäll regarding health insurance, increased sick leave due to mental illness and the shortcomings in communication between Försäkringskassan and health care. At the beginning of the month, the Swedish National Audit Office's reports on the assessment of work capacity in the case of mental illness and the insurance medicine decision support were debated here in the Chamber. It is clear to me that it is not working well enough today. I see clear conflicts between the health care system and the Social Insurance Agency's handler around the country. I see traces of shortcomings in communication about sick leave and sick certificates in many of the cases around the country where people feel unfairly treated. Madam President, I would like My question to Minister Annika Strandhäll is: How does the government work with these issues today?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-417	Madam President, I would like It is, of course, totally unacceptable for a citizen to have to think about which door you go through when you need help. You should get the right support and help from the actors you need. This could be about Försäkringskassan, who has a responsibility. This could be about health care. This can be about the Public Employment Service, and it can be about other rehabilitation actors. It is our responsibility to ensure that our authorities and stakeholders work together in a way and organise themselves in a way that allows citizens to get the support they can expect. This is particularly true, I would say, when life turns and you suffer from illness. For over a year, we have therefore been assigned assignments, not least to Försäkringskassan but also to Arbetsförmedlingen, about a view of zero tolerance towards people having to end up between the chairs. We also have a dialogue assignment to Försäkringskassan regarding the dialogue with health care. This has to work. That is what the citizens are expecting, and these are demands that we are making.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-421	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Strandhäll, for your answer! I have a quick question: what do we need to do next in this House to get this right?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-422	Madam President, I would like Certainly the closest now is the ongoing investigation, where Claes Jansson has a special mission to review the parts of health insurance that are perceived as candid. We also have a national coordinator in Mandus Frykman who reviews the entire sick leave process from ax to loaf, as they say, precisely to look at how the different actors interact. He is presenting his first interim report now in April. We are following this with great interest.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-424	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson on the working environment. However, I would like to begin by stating that the shortage of teachers is enormous in Sweden today. It is at the same time as the number of unemployed teachers is increasing. The reason for this increase is a poor working environment. More and more people are resigning at their own request. They do so for health reasons linked to the working environment. Nine out of ten teachers today do not have time for their assignment during regular working hours. Teachers leave the profession for health reasons – at a time of teacher shortage. Madam President, I would like Sweden cannot afford to lose more good teachers. In this connection, I would like to ask Ylva Johansson what measures the Minister intends to take to improve the working environment for Sweden's teachers.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-427	Madam President, I would like This is an extremely urgent issue that Johanna Rantsi raises. I recognize it myself because my own profession is a teacher. Of course, efforts are needed at school for more employees and to change the teaching profession so that teachers can concentrate on being teachers and are relieved of many of the other tasks that today take an unreasonable share of teachers' working hours. That's something my colleagues at the Department of Education are working on. When it comes to health and safety at work, the Swedish Work Environment Authority during the last term of office produced new regulations on organisational and social work environment. They have been very useful and are currently used in the workplace. When I talk to both employers and safety representatives, I hear that their assessment is that, so far, only half of the potential that exists in the new regulatory framework has been exploited. I therefore have great hopes that this new regulatory framework will be able to contribute to substantial improvements.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-430	Madam President, I would like Just like Ylva Johansson, I know what it looks like in school, because when I do not substitute as a Member of Parliament here is where I am. I meet a lot of teachers. Most recently today I had a visit from a school where teachers testify to these problems. They also talk about how teachers are handled in the face of the threat and violence that escalates in school. The registrations have doubled in just five years. What does Ylva Johansson intend to do about the threat and violence that teachers suffer at their workplace?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-432	Madam President, I would like It is the school leaders who are ultimately responsible for ensuring that there is safety in schools. The government is obviously a partner in this work, not least in terms of resources for the school sector. It is important that we can have a good working environment in schools, both for pupils and for teachers. Teachers are one of the best jobs and occupations you can have. But it is also important that we use our teachers to burn for their profession and not be burdened by too many other tasks.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-434	Madam President, I would like I have a question addressed to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. At the turn of the year, new legislation came into force for gaming policy in Sweden. According to the law currently in force in this area, the marketing of gambling to consumers should be moderate. What is considered moderate should be established by practice, but there is no practice to relate to. There is also the problem that we have seen in Sweden in recent months with gambling advertising that is massive in scope and that in some places also has aggressive elements. It is about gambling advertising that can hardly be considered particularly moderate by many Swedes – this despite recent legislation that has come into force in this area. Surely there are many Swedes who wonder if this is how it would be with the government's new gaming reform. In view of this, I wonder whether the Government sees that something more could have been done in advance to prevent the extent and aggressiveness of gambling advertising that we have seen since the turn of the year.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-438	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jonas Andersson, for this important question! I am extremely pleased that we have regained control of the gaming market and that once again, after several decades, we have jurisdiction over the companies that conduct gambling activities in the Swedish gambling market. It is an obligation we have to our citizens as a state. Now the regulation is in place, and the process is underway. We have legal proceedings dealing with moderate marketing. But the government is not satisfied with the state of play advertising. We see an overly aggressive marketing of gambling activities, and the amount of advertising is in direct conflict with the aims of the legislation. Against this background, we have met the gaming industry and stated that they need to self-regulate. They've been given a deadline. Today, just before this Question Time, I had a meeting with the gambling industry when they returned their answer. My initial assessment is that today we are one step closer to stricter legislation. But more needs to be done. We're here to protect our consumers.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-442	Madam President, I would like Sustainable consumption is an important part of achieving the 2030 Agenda targets. Slit-and-slip society is a major problem in this context. Of course, the phenomenon has many explanations. Status and fashion are a factor. Consumption is driven by constantly having the newest and the coolest. For me, this is perhaps not the most important thing that you see. Yet I'm also driven into the slit-and-slip trend, this because many goods don't measure up. The quality is simply poor. The right to complaint is in this context an important piece of the puzzle, but as Minister Shekarabi knows, the legislation is confusing with different times and different rules. The legislation thus creates a very high threshold for the individual consumer to have his or her rights and thus also counteracts the Agenda 2030 objectives.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-446	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ola Möller, for this important question! For us, consumer policy and consumer law issues will be a priority during the term of office. There is a strong need to strengthen consumer protection, not only in the gambling market but in general. That is why we are also looking at the question raised by Ola Möller. EU legislation is also in progress here, and the government is, of course, actively involved in this work. Our ambition is to strengthen consumer protection in this area too. Although these are harmonised areas of the European Union, we naturally have the opportunity to influence the European process, and we are taking that with us.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-449	Madam President, I would like Madam President, I would like In the election movement, the Social Democrats tried to win voters with, among other things, family week. Nevertheless, the Social Democrats made their worst choice in a hundred years. However, it is not the bad election result that I want to discuss here, but what we can do together to achieve greater equality and greater security. Family week sounds sympathetic but is very expensive. Fully utilised, the cost is over SEK 7 billion, and Sweden's bnp reduces by SEK 23 billion. Madam President, I would like I would like to receive answers on how Minister Strandhäll wants to prioritise to finance this and why the government, when large security investments are needed, more police officers and shorter care queues choose to prioritise that adults, healthy people should be at home from work.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-452	Madam President, I would like Investing in Sweden's families with children is a very good investment. In Sweden, under Social Democratic leadership, we have worked for decades to ensure that women have an opportunity to reconcile careers and family life. We've done it through the world's most generous parental insurance. We have done so by working hard to ensure that men and women share more equally the responsibility for children, homes and families, including through weighted months in parental insurance. This has resulted in Sweden now having one of the world's absolute highest employment rates among women. What it has contributed to in terms of growth in our country are now also figures on. But we also know that many families find it difficult to reconcile everyday life with full - time work. Parents need more time with their children. Therefore, an investment in a family week is an investment in a Swedish family life but also in an even stronger Sweden. That's it!
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-455	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. Following the vote by the Swedish Democrats in this House to the budget on the napkin sketches of Moderates and Christian Democrats, we are seeing the effects today. Recently, a notice was given to 4,500 employees in the Employment Service. Today, the news was presented that 132 employment offices around the country will be closed or changed. My question to the Government is what message we can take with us tonight when we go home to our constituencies and meet citizens, job seekers, employment services staff and others. How can we solve the problems that are now emerging?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-458	Madam President, I would like The budget voted by Parliament has created significant problems for the Public Employment Service and, by extension, even greater problems for the unemployed who need support in order to get into work. However, from the time the government took office, I am responsible for the operation, and we will ensure that we have as good and well-functioning labour market policies as possible. The Swedish Public Employment Service's announcement today that it intends to close 132 offices is a hasty decision by the government. The Government is preparing an assignment to the Swedish Public Employment Service to take another type of consideration in the office structure so that we can ensure a state presence throughout the country and that the Swedish Public Employment Service does not turn off offices prematurely before there are viable alternatives. With that assignment, my assessment is that Arbetsförmedlingen needs to take a look at the office issue.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-462	Madam President, I would like The employment gap between native and foreign born continues to increase. As the unemployment rate among natives now declines in the wake of the boom, it is increasing among those born in the country and is now up to 15.4%, although the government has done its best to conceal unemployment in various forms of expensive and inefficient subsidies, such as the extra services, which do not lead to unsubsidised jobs. The job gap risks tearing our society apart. Exclusion and unemployment are a major cause of growing insecurity.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-465	Madam President, I would like Mr Malmqvist raises an important issue. However, I can congratulate Mr Malmqvist on the fact that the gap between domestic and foreign born is actually narrowing. The employment rate is increasing in all groups, but it is increasing more rapidly for foreign born and it is increasing fastest for foreign born women. With this, I do not want in any way to ignore the major problem of the difference that exists, but developments in the employment rate are actually moving in the right direction. We have also been able to almost halve the time for newly arrived refugees to come to work compared to what it looked like a few years ago. Developments are, therefore, undoubtedly moving in the right direction. However, one cannot be satisfied with the situation in any way. Clearly, more measures need to be taken to speed up the entry into work of newcomers and those who are far removed from the labour market. One important piece of the puzzle is the creation jobs that we work together with the social partners to introduce. These are aimed precisely at those who are far removed from the labour market, and they should lead to lasting employment.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-469	Madam President, I would like Mr Morell spoke in his speech about the importance of increasing safety on our roads. I also mentioned in my speech that historically there has been a broad consensus on zero vision and road safety. But not least in the last week, I and the Social Democrats have become very worried about the further development. I wonder how the Swedish Democrats will act now that the Swedish Democrats belong to a group in the European Parliament where they are doing everything possible to oppose the work on the so-called Road Package, which has a major and crucial role in road safety.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-472	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mr Gustafsson for the question. It is a little interesting that the question comes up. Everyone who has followed the work knows very well that our representative in the European Parliament, Peter Lundgren, has pushed this issue very hard. He also worked closely with the late Member of Parliament Jens Nilsson. In the work and mobility package presented, there were many proposals for changes to put a stop to cabotage. There were solutions to how we could control everything that happens in the transport industry. Unfortunately, the matter was not dealt with this week. The President removed it from the agenda. There were 1 500 amendments to it. It was then considered that it was not possible to treat. The matter could perhaps come up in April. But no one thinks so. Our history in this is that we have pushed the issue very hard through our representative, Peter Lundgren. We will also push this issue hard at home in the Swedish Parliament. We need to get things sorted out on the road. It cannot continue in this way, with unauthorised cabotage, unauthorised combined transport, traffic with vehicles that are not authorised, brakeless vehicles, vehicles that do not have sufficient tread depth on the tyres, drivers who do not have a driving licence, drivers who do not have a certificate of professional competence and so on. That's not good enough. I'd be happy to take a hand and work on the matter. We need to find a solution.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-478	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Thomas Morell for his answer. It has been working for five years on the proposal that has been on the way to decision-making in the EU. It is not my part about driving and resting times and stopping social dumping, but also about new rules for cabotage. As I said, these are absolutely crucial points for us to achieve greater road safety. Now, however, as Thomas Morell himself pointed out, the proposal has been stopped from even being put forward for decision. It is unclear how it will affect road safety on our Swedish roads. Thomas Morell pointed out that the Swedish democrats would have been the driving force in the work. From my side and from the Social Democrats, it is unclear what the work of the Swedish Democrats for this de facto looks like. It is we Social Democrats who repeatedly stand up for the right conditions throughout the labour market, including in the transport sector. This is absolutely crucial. It is not the case that we have pushed too little on this issue. On the contrary, we have been very driven. And now we see that the Group of the Swedish Democrats in the European Parliament has de facto done everything to prevent the proposal from being tabled for decision. Is it not just rhetoric from the Swedish Democrats when you claim to stand up for this, Thomas Morell? Or are you going to move on for real, as you say here? Is it rhetoric, or will there be a workshop of this in order to improve road safety?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-483	Madam President, I would like Member Elin Gustafsson can breathe calmly. I can assure you that we will be fighting this issue. And we will be on to find a solution. We need to get control of the roads. The social democrats are happy to say that they extended the time of classing from 24 hours to 36 hours. It was quite ineffective in reality. They're talking about stricter client responsibility. But it was only on paper. What they did was to change the text a little when it came to permits. They completely barred the cabotage and combined traffic and did not reach the actual cheating. We have not seen any increase in the number of traffic police. While this government and the previous government have been operating, the number of traffic policemen, my old colleagues, has been reduced. There are some 120– 150 people walking out on the asphalt every day. There's too few to get to this. There must be a change. I would be happy to join Elin Gustafsson and the Social Democrats in order to get more traffic police on the roads. It's an absolute requirement if we're going to get to grips with this. It doesn't control itself. It is not in that way that those who have done wrong themselves step in and pay fines. There must be an authority that tells you that it is stopped and that you will have to pay if you do not behave.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-487	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Transport Committee's report TU7 on road safety. I will make a show of impact on road safety. First of all, I would like to inform you that the Center Party obviously supports all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 10. Wild fences save lives. Yet many highways still lack wild fences. As an example, I can mention my constituency of Sjuhärad and national road 27 between Borås and Gislaved with, among other things, passages in Svenljunga and Tranemo municipalities. Parts of this road are equipped with wild fences. Some parts aren't. The route is a large commuting route that connects several municipalities and counties. The road is also served by heavy transport, which means that wildlife fences need to be given higher priority. In analysing the effects of game fences, a clear picture emerges that wild game fences are the most effective way to prevent wild game accidents. The game fences should also be combined with game warning systems and solutions that allow game to cross and cross the roads, so as not to create lock-in effects and shift accident risks to any other location. The Center Party believes it is urgent to take responsibility for the safety of our major roads with extensive commuting traffic. In view of the high social costs generated by wild game accidents, it must also be socially economically viable to invest in wildlife fences on the road routes that are most affected by accidents today. Having good tires all year round increases road safety on our roads. According to Swedish legislation, winter tyres are to be used on passenger cars, light trucks and buses with a maximum total weight of 3.5 tonnes between 1 December and 31 March when winter roads are in force. Winter tyres shall be tyres specially designed for winter roads and may be either so-called friction tyres or studded tyres. Between 16 April and 30 September, the use of studded winter tyres shall be prohibited unless it is winter roads that justify the use of just studded tyres. Dubbing tyres are therefore permitted between 1 October and 15 April. The Center Party notes that these rules mean that in the autumn you have two months to change from summer tires to studded winter tyres but only two weeks in the spring to change from studded winter tires to summer tyres. Many people need help changing the tires of their car. At the same time, it creates jobs for many workshops, not least specialised tyre workshops. Often these workshops are smaller companies that have a hectic time when it is the season for tyre replacement. We want to stress that our country is elongated. There are different types of weather conditions in our country during the same times of the year. In order to give a reasonable chance of planning and spreading the work, the Center Party believes that the time between the requirement to have winter tyres and when studded winter tyres can no longer be used should at least be doubled from today's two weeks to four weeks in the spring. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, we in the Center Party note that the individual citizen must meet medical fitness requirements in order to be allowed to take and retain a driving licence in Sweden. The requirements aim to contribute to good road safety and include vision, hearing and other health aspects that are important in traffic. The Center Party has noted that the number of withdrawals of driving licences on medical grounds is now increasing. The Swedish Transport Agency estimates that, despite this, there are far more people who, due to medical reasons, do not meet the requirements of the traffic than those who have their driving license withdrawn. Persons who have their driving licence withdrawn due to loss of visual field may apply to test their vision and in many cases receive their driving licence back. The Swedish National Road and Transport Research Institute, VTI, together with medical expertise on behalf of the Swedish Transport Agency, has developed a simulator test that assesses the driving performance of persons with visual field loss. The test results can then be used as a basis for the exemption application. However, the Center Party notes that getting your driving licence back is a lengthy and costly process for the individual with a visual impairment. In many other EU countries, the order is different. It gives the individual the opportunity to have their driving skills tested before the driving licence is withdrawn. The Center Party is in favour of a similar system in Sweden for people who do not have more serious visual abnormalities than is possible to obtain an exemption for. However, changing the current system requires a change in the driving licence law. The Center Party therefore believes that the government should review current legislation and return to Parliament with proposals for a change of legislation that allows people with less severe visual impairments to have their suitability tested, for example by a driving test, before the driving licence may be withdrawn. Having a driver's license is too much of a life requirement. Many can surely remember the day when you drove up and got your driver's license. But like everything else in society, things have to be constantly renewed and updated. The announcement that the Parliament will address to the government on this issue regarding a general review of driver training is very welcome. It is important that this review looks at new technologies and the costs and simplification of driving licence training, but also looks at how to access illegal traffic schools, which have become increasingly common in some places. Madam President, I would like The change of time between winter and summer is an issue that is frequently discussed around the country, at kitchen tables and at different gathering places. On Tuesday this week, the European Parliament's message came that the time shift within the Union should be abolished and that each country has until March 2021 to decide what time it wants, winter or summer time. Statskontoret's report presented on 9 November 2018 showed that the areas affected by the time shift are public health and the coordination of time in other countries. In other areas examined, such as energy, transport, agriculture and tourism, the time shift has only a marginal impact. The positive public health effects of summer time are due, among other things, to the fact that the lighter afternoons and longer evenings increase the desire for outdoor physical activity. During the winter months, the normal time provides a significantly greater supply of daylight before the clock. 10 in the morning, which according to the sleep researchers is important for man's circadian rhythm. This means that both permanent winter time and permanent summer time would have a negative impact on public health compared to the current situation. At the same time, however, research from Karolinska Institutet shows that the shift in time is causing a strain of stress, which in turn increases the risk of heart attack and thus also death. Exactly how the increased stress hits the mortality rate in other diseases is still unknown. The question now lies with the government and EU Member States to deal with how the proposal should be for each country and how legislative texts should be written. In summary, there are both negative and positive health aspects in terms of timing to be taken into account. All in all, however, the Center Party believes that the change of time in spring and autumn should end.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-505	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Left Party's reservation No 14 to be approved. The speed of the city is now 50 kilometres per hour. We believe it should be reduced to 40 kilometres per hour. Reducing the speed of urban areas would mean lower fuel consumption, less emissions of particulate matter and greenhouse gases, and have a positive effect on road safety, with fewer road deaths and injuries, according to a study carried out by Traffic Analysis. A safer traffic environment combined with a changing urban environment could ultimately also increase the proportion of pedestrian and bicycle traffic. The advantage of such a measure is that it would have a rapid impact and would result in a more similar application of the speed limits across the country. Madam President, I would like In Sweden there is an acute and growing problem with illegal traffic schools. It is a problem that has existed for about 20 years, and it is getting worse and worse, without the measures being taken seem to have any real effect. Illegal transport school activities have serious consequences both for road safety and for the safety of legal operators. In its tracks there are serious criminality, threats to the officials who carry out driving tests and theoretical tests and threats to those who work in legal activities. There are drivers who have cheated directly on their qualifications and who are out on our roads without adequate knowledge. They are thus risking not only their own lives, but also the lives of all fellow road users. Clearly, the authorities today do not have sufficient tools to get to these villains and cheaters. There are a number of measures that could be taken urgently to at least start work on overcoming criminal activities in driving licence training. We in the Left Party expect strong action from the government. Among other things, the number of permissions should be reduced to five while removing the right to pause a condition and start a new one. In practice, this means that today you can have more than the 15 permits allowed by paused permissions between driving times. There can hardly be any reason for a private tutor to practice driving with more than five students. We also believe that authorisation for private dual-command cars should be introduced. Normally this is not something a private car driver needs. Yet several thousand private cars are rolling on our roads with double-command without being connected to any traffic school or other legal activity. The demand for these cars is for some reason also very great. There is now a need to take concrete action. The investigation ordered by the government, which is now being processed, is not really about illegal driving schools, although measures against them are in the investigation. Instead, it is mainly about driving licence training. The committee has now proposed a new investigation into driving licence training. However, in a situation where we see that action to get to the problems is urgent, it is not a new investigation that we need. Now we will have to wait a few more years for concrete measures while looking again at what is to be done. The problems have grown for 20 years, and something needs to be done now. The committee's announcement, supported by a majority, calls for a couple of measures. But much more needs to be done, and there is now a risk of further pause. It's time for action, not investigation. In this context, I would also like to mention the Traffic School Act. It's a toothless law with a penalty scale that's not very dissuasive. The highest penalty is a fine that is very small in relation to the profits that illegal activity can generate. There is a judgment from the District Court of Karlstad, which has also been established by the Court of Appeal, where a man who engaged in illegal activities has been sentenced to imprisonment and restriction of trade. However, this judgment has not been based on the Traffic School Act, but is convicted of financial crimes in the form of tax offences and bookkeeping offences. So a detour has been required to get to the business. It would actually have been much easier to do this through a good traffic school team. At the same time, the legal driving schools are being competed out by the black business. Basically, this is a lack of respect for the driving licence as a certificate of knowledge. It is also a kind of lack of respect for the dangerous environment that traffic is and a lack of respect for its fellow human beings, whose lives are at risk by using inadequate teaching. Part of tackling these serious problems is to ensure that the real driving schools are able to carry out their activities without competition from criminal activities. It should not pay to hire black driving schools and cheat themselves into driving licences. This has to stop. Briefly and concisely, it is a problem that has grown over 20 years and involves crime, threats, poor working environment, loss of tax revenue and, not least, major risks in traffic. If we want to maintain legal transport schools and good quality in driver training, it is time for the government to show that it takes the issue seriously and takes the right initiatives to ensure that the authorities have the right tools to counteract the criminal activity.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-518	Madam President, I would like Today we're going to talk about road safety. It is a serious subject where there is a great deal of consensus in the desire to ensure that as few people as possible are injured or die in traffic. Although the number of road deaths has remained at about the same level since 2010 – around 250 to 270 deaths per year – the number in relation to the number of traffic accidents has actually fallen. It's positive, but we seem to be stuck at 250 dead a year. We have to keep working on that. So we must not sit back, but we must always work to ensure that there are fewer accidents in traffic. Madam President, I would like In order to succeed in zero vision, we need to work with both traffic culture, technical measures and criminal acts. No, we're not supposed to do the criminal acts, but we're going to fix them. Culturally, it is important that we strive for a traffic culture that shows respect for each other, regardless of the way in which you transport yourself. Pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists are less protected than those who transport themselves in a car or truck. Good traffic culture should therefore be encouraged in education and in dialogue with road users. Good traffic culture is also something that we ourselves are responsible for in relation to each other and in relation to our own children and young people when we take the lead in our own driving. We must also make use of the technical possibilities available to create good and safer traffic. Alcolocks, cameras, differentiated speeds, better roads and road rails should be used and designed in such a way as to reduce the risk of accidents. Here it is particularly important to mention the motorcycle accidents, where some technology protects some but risks not protecting everyone in the same way. This applies, for example, to cable racks. Unfortunately, there are also those who choose to violate our laws and, for example, drive onyktra or drug-affected. There are also those who drive vehicles that are not approved. To meet this, it is important that we have more traffic police that carry out more checks along our roads. It is not enough to talk about it; we must work together to squeeze criminal road users. Madam President, I would like In this report, we are also dealing with issues relating to driving licence training. As driving licences are a necessity for many young people and immigrants to enter the labour market, it is important that the rules are such that it is easy to take a driving licence. Today's regulations regarding, among other things, the validity of the proficiency test and the driving test create stress for those who need to take a turn. In some parts of the country it may also be difficult to get a new time for re-tests due to long queues at Trafikverket. We should therefore review these rules. Such a review should also consider the possibility of being able to re-test only the part in, for example, the run-up with which problems were encountered at the time of the run-up – that, so to speak, twos are extinguished. This is something that traffic schools have recommended to us. In addition to the fact that we want to make it easier to take driving licences, we, together with the rest of the committee, are taking the initiative for a clearer line against the illegal driving schools. A restriction on the number of people a private person can supervise and a ban on privately owned cars with double-command are some ideas that can limit the conditions for the illegal driving schools. In our opinion, it should never be okay to fool people and compete out honest driving schools. Madam President, I would like I support all the reservations of the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 5.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-528	Madam President, I would like Few who embark on traffic are concerned about safety, whether you are a driver, a cyclist or a pedestrian. It is assumed that the traffic system is safe. Unfortunately, we find that in over 90% of accidents, we ourselves, that is, the human factor, are the cause. How can we create a traffic environment that helps people in complex traffic? The two main causes of accidents are too high speed and alcohol and drugs. Not even half of road users kept up the speed of our government roads in 2017, and of all fatal accidents about a third are estimated to be alcohol or drug-related. Another reason is that drivers are inattentive. What can we do about this? It has been seen that if everyone kept the speed limits, 100 lives could be saved. An important measure to reduce speed violations is to increase the use of traffic surveillance cameras. It has proven to reduce the speed of the road and save many lives, which is very positive. Voices have been raised here to introduce ownership in cases of speed violations, as it can sometimes be difficult to identify the driver. Here is the position of the Liberals that we should continue to be responsible for the driver in accordance with the principle that it is the guilty party who is to be judged and fined. The automotive industry has gradually introduced more and more driver support to make it easier for the driver and reduce the number of accidents caused by inattentiveness. Therefore, Liberals welcome the fact that at EU level it is now proposed to make driver support systems such as emergency braking assistance mandatory. Madam President, I would like Sweden is the best in the world in terms of road safety. But if there is to be a radical improvement in road safety from today's level of between 250 – 300 deaths per year, we need, among other things, to introduce more driver support in our vehicles and gradually move towards self-driving cars, something that actually started from the desire to have improved road safety. Liberals want to work to facilitate this transition in a safe and controlled manner in a gradual adaptation of licensing and our laws. It is not just about the vehicles, but it is important here that we also work with the infrastructure, such as communication between vehicles. At the same time, we must not forget the basic infrastructure, such as road markings. At present, only 25% of road markings on Swedish roads are visible in wet roads, and that is not good enough. Madam President, I would like Liberals are in favour of using new technologies in other contexts as well. One way to increase personal safety is to develop and introduce geofencing to limit speed in different city zones. We also need to invest more money in research to better understand, for example, road safety around cycling. This applies not least to the impact of the new electric bicycles. We can then use this knowledge to further develop our traffic environments for vulnerable road users. We also need to support universities, universities and institutes around Sweden in the development of new test methods and test units in order to better understand the road safety consequences of the new systems we introduce. Liberals look forward to hearing the Traffic Analysis report on the effects of new technologies on transport in June. Madam President, I would like The focus of Swedish debate today is to prevent accidents, but at the same time we must not forget how we deal with serious accidents when they happen. One way to reduce the consequences of a road accident is to work with the so-called golden hour, i.e. the hour immediately after an accident. More research is needed to save lives, including how to use the car's data. The technology could, for example, identify internal bleeding directly in the ambulance and thus facilitate SOS Alarm and the prioritisation of care interventions. Major gains could be made, above all, in increasing survival opportunities and reducing future complications for those who are involved in the accident, but it would also bring great economic benefits to society and health care by better prioritising the resources we have. Of course, training of new drivers is an important factor in road safety. It's about being able to drive and understand traffic rules. Most of all, however, it may be that new drivers need to understand the risks of driving and how to minimize them. A more basic examination of the whole training of driving licences is needed. Here we need to review adaptation to new technologies as we now introduce more and more advanced driver systems and move to self-driving vehicles. How will the new drivers relate to the new technology? We also need to look at the costs and simplification of driving licence training and, perhaps, above all, measures to combat road accidents. Pending the new investigation that we want to see, the Liberals want to reduce the number of permits that a supervisor can have to ten. We also want to review the possibility of introducing authorisation requirements for the possession of dual-command vehicles. The Liberals therefore support the committee's announcement to the government. Madam President, I would like Finally, we are discussing our problems very much here. It is important to point out that Sweden will host the UN Conference on Road Safety 2020. Let us be proud that our joint sustained road safety work has given us the first place in the world. It is here in Sweden that the whole world will gather to discuss how the global goals for road safety will be developed.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-544	Madam President, I would like Road safety is a very important area. Every year, relatives are told that loved ones have been killed or injured in our transport system. According to preliminary figures from the Swedish Transport Agency, 325 people were killed in road traffic in Sweden in 2018. The latest figures for severely injured are from 2017 when 2,275 were seriously injured, according to Traffic Analysis. We need to constantly strive to eliminate the number of people killed and injured. It is then important to also look at the issue from a slightly broader perspective as provided for in the 2012 revised objective of consideration. This means that, in addition to adapting the design, operation and use of the transport system so that no one is killed or seriously injured, it shall also contribute to the achievement of the overall generational objective of the environment and the environmental quality objectives and contribute to increased public health. It is therefore necessary to take a broader approach to this issue and not only to look at the deaths caused by a road accident, but also to include the approximately 3 000 premature deaths a year caused by traffic air pollution. There are 3,000 deaths in Sweden alone. There are more people killed by air pollution than the number of people seriously injured in traffic. Of these deaths, 2,800 are estimated to be due to exhaust emissions. It is both particles and nitrogen dioxide and more. About 200 are due to wear particles, i.e. particles from the tyres and the road. Furthermore, if the transport system is to contribute to increased health as prescribed, the transport system needs to encourage active mobility even more by increasing the number of people walking and cycling. It can either take place as part of the journey, for example to public transport, or throughout the journey. Then public health can be improved. There is simply a need for an extended concept of road safety covering both the direct and indirect deaths and injuries of traffic. Madam President, I would like Even if a broader approach to road safety is taken, it is of course important to work also on the direct injuries and deaths. It is therefore a good thing that the government has taken a renewed hold on the zero vision work. No one should have to be killed or badly injured in the transport system. In the renewed zero vision work, special focus is placed on different groups of vulnerable road users, and children remain in focus. For the vulnerable road users, 20 cyclists died in 2018 compared with 26 fatalities in 2017. Of these killed cyclists, 13 were aged 65 or over, and none were under 18. In 2018, 33 pedestrians were killed after being hit by motor vehicles compared to 37 in 2017. Of these, 6 were under 18 years of age and 18 were 65 years of age or older. There is therefore reason to continue to focus particularly on children, but also to look at the safety of older people in traffic. In order to prevent accidents in which vulnerable road users are injured and killed, traffic separation is a very important instrument. Motor vehicle drivers, cyclists and pedestrians are three groups of road users who have very different needs and move in different ways. At the same time, we know that complete separation is not always possible. Therefore, consideration between motor vehicle drivers, cyclists and pedestrians is very important. Additional measures may be needed to ensure that motorists show sufficient consideration to cyclists and, for example, maintain sufficient respect for distance when driving over. Madam President, I would like To achieve road safety, we need to work both with the design of the traffic system and with the behaviour of people using the traffic system. Unfortunately, too many drivers are lacking in both judgment and responsibility. Therefore, both speed violations and drunk driving are important causes of accidents. On the state road network, 45 per cent of traffic was at speed in 2017, and 70 per cent of heavy goods vehicles do not stay within speed limits. Of all fatal accidents, about one third are caused by alcohol and drugs. Those are scary numbers. In the report, the committee notes that the experience of the police shows that many drivers have a dangerous driving style and drive the vehicle in such a way as to create irritation and uncertainty for other road users. The committee shares the opinion of the police that a great deal could be gained in terms of road safety if we manage to change the behaviour of these drivers. According to the Directors-General of the Finnish Transport Administration and the Swedish Transport Agency, reduced speed would save many lives. They believe that road safety is based on an interaction between better infrastructure, safer vehicles and responsible drivers. Measures to increase motorists' speed and soberness are important and would save many lives. Compliance with the rules is important. Within Trafikverket there is a power collection on road safety where the priority areas are unprotected road users, speed compliance and sobriety, which is very positive. An important part of the process of re-launching the zero vision is to increase the safety of vulnerable road users as they are particularly vulnerable. Madam President, I would like Even in urban areas, many motorists exceed speed limits, I would say. Speed is crucial if you are to survive being hit by a vehicle. Most people can handle a collision where the speed at the time of impact does not exceed 20 kilometres per hour. At 30 kilometers an hour, nine out of ten unprotected road users who get hit by a car survive. At 40 kilometers an hour, seven out of ten survive. But at 50 kilometers an hour, only two out of ten survive. Reducing speeds in traffic environments where many vulnerable road users move is therefore an important measure to reduce both the risk of accidents and the damage caused by an accident. The Green Party is therefore in favour of reducing urban base speed. Traffic analysis suggests that a reduced base speed to 40 kilometers per hour results in 3 to 17 fewer deaths per year. A reduced base speed would also lead to a safer traffic environment, which would make more people feel safe walking and cycling. This, in turn, would have a positive impact on both the environment and public health. It is, of course, already possible for municipalities to reduce the signposted speed to 40 or 30 kilometres per hour in densely populated areas. According to Trafikanalys, it is a clear trend that distances of 50 kilometres per hour are reduced in favour of distances with speed limits of 30 and 40 kilometres per hour in the municipal road network. At the same time, a reduced base speed would ensure up on all routes that are not signposted. Traffic analysis reported in October 2017 the report Reduced base speed in urban areas, and it is now being prepared in the Government Office. Infringements of the speed limit not only increase the risk of serious accidents. They also lead to an increase in greenhouse gas emissions, particulate matter and nitrogen oxides. Speed has an impact on fuel consumption and thus also on emissions. There are therefore good reasons to also work for climate reasons to reduce speed and get more people to comply with the speed limits that apply. It is therefore unfortunate that, as some parties have suggested, increased speeds on the roads. Madam President, I would like In the report, the committee also draws attention to the importance of children and young people learning about road safety. As you know, the responsibility for teaching traffic lies with the school and is regulated in the curricula of primary and secondary schools. According to the Swedish National Agency for Transport, teaching about traffic must be about both road safety and traffic rules and about travel, transport, environment and community planning. At the same time, we see that many schools do not take this task seriously enough and that teaching is very different in different parts of the country. The committee also draws attention to the problem of driving culture, which leads to traffic environments at schools and preschools and in connection with leisure activities becoming more and more insecure as more and more parents choose to drive their children. This, in turn, leads even more people to choose to drive their children. Here municipalities have an important responsibility to regulate traffic around schools and preschools. It is also important for the school to fulfil its role in dialogue with parents and guardians. If more children go cycling to school, both the environment and the children's health are positively affected. More mobility in everyday life also gives children better opportunities to assimilate knowledge at school. Children also bring with them habits that can affect their choice of residence even in adulthood. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to support the committee's proposal, except in paragraph 11, where I am in favour of the S, V and MP reservations. I can also note that in principle we agree in committee on the importance of combating black driving schools. We therefore believe that this announcement is unnecessary. The investigation that has been carried out is still being prepared within the Government Office, and we from the Social Democrats and the Green Party believe that strong measures are urgently needed to curb the existence of so-called black driving schools. At the same time, we assume that the government will take the necessary measures to reform the education system and curb illegal exercise driving activities. Against this background, we find that there is no reason for the committee to take any initiative on a general review of driver training.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-569	Mr President, I would like to It was a beautiful talk about road safety in Sweden, but it is clear that there are still some things missing. This is a bit remarkable given that the Green Party is still a government base and has been in the government power in Sweden for almost five years. Still the alcoboms haven't been set up. They were fully investigated in 2014. The Alliance government worked them out, had them tested out, and made an evaluation that pointed to positive results in dissuading drunk drivers from trying to get into the country. Has the Green Party given priority to setting up alcoboms in our ports? Why has the issue not been higher on the agenda, so that the booms could have been produced in these five years? Why doesn't anything happen? In these times when we are talking about the environment and climate, we need to evaluate how the money can be used as efficiently as possible so that it really becomes climate benefit and not just symbolic policy. That is why I have the following questions for the Green Party representative here. How do you see the choice between expanding high-speed trains or electrifying our roads? What is the priority of the Green Party? Mr President, I would like to There are no traffic policemen who can control professional traffic in the country, and there are no alcoboms. Yet the Green Party has chosen to invest over 1 billion on electric bicycles. Is it really a measure that increases traffic safety and has the effects we need? Is this a way of financing something that actually does not help road safety? Why are there no more police officers but instead a lot of electric bicycles?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-574	Mr President, I would like to As my colleague Elin Gustafsson said here earlier, alcoboms are on their way in Trelleborg. We all know that there have been a lot of practical questions about how to set up these alcoboms that have been the subject of investigation. Alcoboms are therefore in the pipeline, and this is of course also important for the Green Party. Then there was this with efficiency and how we spend our money in the best way. Mr President, I would like to We in the Green Party give high-speed trains and railways a very high priority. But we see no reason to put those investments against other investments. There are investments in parts of infrastructure budgets that are not the top priorities for the Green Party; I believe that all environmental partners can endorse this. These are investments that increase road capacity and thus also increase emissions. I think that is rather where we are going to get the funding for additional measures on electrification, for example. In the case of traffic police officers, there has also been a great deal of effort in the previous government period on the part of the police. Here too, of course, traffic police are important for increased compliance – I spoke so much about compliance in my speech. E-bikes are an important bet. It has proved to be an effective way to get people to choose the bike over the car. It has given people who otherwise have too long distances to be able to commute their bikes. So we see the investment in electric bicycles as a very successful investment – which has now unfortunately been pushed down by the Moderates and Christian Democrats in their budget.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-580	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the answer, Emma Berginger! I note that instead of investing in the police and more traffic police, you have chosen to invest SEK 1 billion on electric bicycles. With regard to high-speed rail, the Green Party believes that it should be built. At the same time, we do not see any investment in electric roads in your budgets. In fact, the electric roads can begin to roll out now, but instead you are engaged in further investigation and investigation. On the other hand, they are working hard to find an unprofitable high-speed train through the country that will eat up most of the investment heritage and the possibility of new investments in other parts of the country. Surely you should raise the electrification of roads at a higher priority level, given that all environmental expertise says that this is where we will save the environment and meet climate requirements in a completely different way than we do with high-speed trains. You are also planning new petrol and diesel taxes, despite the fact that the ones we have are among the highest in Europe and that the car must be out in sparsely populated areas. There are no alternatives. Yet you are planning new petrol and diesel taxes to finance various things. Do you still think that environmental, petrol and diesel taxes are too low in Sweden? Mr President, I would like to I have one more question. A year ago, in committee, we discussed the need to tackle this issue with illegal traffic schools and remove the black part from the market. Then we agreed in committee. The Green Party was in on this. When we saw that the government did not deliver this, we put our foot down a bit more firmly. But then the Green Party and the Social Democrats stepped by the announcement to the government that would press on in the matter. Why have you backed up in this? Do you think that's enough, what the government has done with black choir schools?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-585	Mr President, I would like to There were many different questions. I'll see if I can answer them all. When it comes to investing in both traffic police and electric bicycles, I think it is a little bit to compare apples and pears. We have done both – we have invested in the police, and we have invested in electric bicycles. There need be no contradiction. As far as high-speed trains are concerned, I would like to say that this is one of the most important initiatives for Swedish development, not only as an environmental project but also for the development of industry, as we can link the whole of southern Sweden to a labour market region. The faster we can implement this project, the more profitable it will be for both the climate and Sweden's economy. I therefore maintain that high-speed rail and high-speed rail are an important project for Sweden. As has been said, in the case of new petrol and diesel taxes, there is a need for a substantial revision of the tax system. In the January agreement, we have put forward a proposal for a major green tax change reform. There is much that needs to be discussed in the context of that reform. This morning we received information from the Climate Policy Council in the Transport Committee, which highlighted, among other things, the need to review vehicle taxation on the basis that in the near future we will have a large proportion of electrified vehicles. Then we need to look at what kind of taxes we have on vehicle traffic. I also think that illegal traffic schools are a major problem, absolutely. However, as I said earlier, an investigation has been carried out which is currently being prepared within the Government Office, and we think that is enough at this point.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-591	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Emma Berginger for a good speech. But there was a passus that I was thinking a little bit about. It is about the idea, the idea, that reduced speed in some sense is always right. In my world, life is not quite that simple. I have said here in the speaker's chair that my experience of the Green Party is that it is a party for cities and that you do not really have a feeling for what is outside the cities. If you drive past a school or drive in a densely populated area, it may be appropriate to reduce speed based on sound levels, security or various other safety aspects. But if you have too low speed limits on, for example, a motorway between two cities, there is another phenomenon: anyone driving on the road knows no confidence in the legislators. You think that the speed is too low in relation to safety on the road and safety on the car, so you do not follow the regulations. If we make laws that people do not actually believe in, we create a dilemma that has consequences for road safety policy. Another such thing to consider is that trucks with internal combustion engines tend to have a certain noise level. Then it may be appropriate to have a certain speed. However, if we were to arrive with electrification, for example from the Stockholm– Gothenburg section, we should probably consider whether an electric truck should not be allowed to go faster than a truck with an internal combustion engine. If you get to have a little higher speed, it is better with rest times. You drive from Stockholm and arrive in Gothenburg in four and a half to five hours and get a good rest time and then drive back. Sometimes, then, there are reasons to look at speeds and not just to have the attitude that now we squeeze the car and lower the speed.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-596	Mr President, I would like to Given that there is such a low level of compliance with the rules on speed, I think it is important to have the courage to review this and dare to prioritise a reduction in speed in very many cases. But of course there are roads that are adapted for high speeds that can also withstand high speeds. Therefore, when you look at speeds, the Finnish Transport Agency has also chosen to adjust the speed in some places, but in many other places it has chosen to reduce the speed. We see great benefits for safety and for emissions. We even see that it is possible to get more cars in, that the road can cope with an increase in traffic, when we have slightly lower speeds. Of course, it is important that people should be able to feel trust and that they should be able to have strong compliance with the rules. But you have to think about how compliance is to be achieved. Trucks and electrification I think is a matter to follow, but the question is whether a truck that is electrified is lighter and therefore safer than a truck that runs on fossil fuels. You have to think about the energy consumption to drive a vehicle at higher speed compared to lower speed and so on. There are many different issues to consider, so I think we will have to come back to that.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-600	Mr President, I would like to I share Emma Berginger's view that compliance with speed is low, and that is precisely what I am talking about. When we politicians push out a system that people do not really believe in, it does not help what we stand and say to each other in this House. As early as 1998, when I was on the Transport Committee last time, I was into the idea of new technology and tried to highlight this idea. I also said that in my speech today. One might well imagine that, for example, a motorway entering one of our larger or smaller cities has different speeds at different times. You can also imagine different speeds depending on the weather and climate. All of this is now perfectly possible to solve with digital screens. To gain confidence in this can be done by allowing a higher speed at ten o'clock in the evening and a significantly lower speed at eight or nine o'clock in the morning when people go into Lund or some other city. This with speeds is not that simple. One cannot simply say that compliance is poor and that we should therefore reduce speed. Compliance is poor – that's why we need to work with speed so that we get credibility and safe and well-functioning traffic. It is also the case that traffic is overestimated by some 60 billion. We have had an interesting meeting today. It has already been mentioned, with Sten Bergheden raising the question, and the question has already been answered to some extent. But I am still – even from a road safety perspective – a little bit curious about how we will continue to work towards a well-functioning tax system in this area. Have you thought about that?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-606	Mr President, I would like to I wonder: Is it the speed that feels good that is right, or is it the speed that reduces accidents and that people actually survive accidents that are right? As far as I am concerned, it goes without saying that we need to have speeds that allow us to reduce the risk of accidents and that people have a chance to survive a possible accident. I also see advantages in the fact that reduced speeds provide an opportunity for lower emissions. As I mentioned in my speech, it is above all reduced urban base speed that we are talking about here. There are already intelligent traffic systems that can regulate speed in different ways depending on weather conditions or time of day, as Magnus Jacobsson noted. But it is also an opportunity to actually slow down at times when this is needed. As far as over-taxation of the car is concerned, I am not sure that I fully agree. There are very many externalities when it comes to road traffic and cars. We can see that not everything is internalised in the price at the moment.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-610	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by stating that we are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, we are only in favour of reservations 13 and 15. I would also like to agree with much of what Sten Bergheden and Magnus Jacobsson have said in the speaker's chair. Mr President, I would like to I want to draw a lance for the country's motorcyclists, even for those who are prospective motorcyclists. Taking a driver's licence is not only expensive for the mc-interested today, but also cumbersome. Of course, you should undergo extensive and well thought-out training before you get your driving licence, but that should also be reasonable. There are elements that could be simplified and in a few cases actually removed. As things stand today, driving licences in all moped and motorcycle classes require a total of four runs or tests for moped and motorcycle-interested young people. First, it is a theory and driving education for EU mops, usually for 15-year-olds. This may be considered reasonable. Then there is an ordinary theory test and driving for those 16 years of age or older who want a driving licence for a light motorcycle. For those who then want a driving licence for heavy motorcycles, this is now divided into two classes: heavy and medium heavy. When you are 18 years old, you only get a mid-heavy motorcycle licence– then you have to drive up a fourth time to get a heavy motorcycle licence when you turn 20. Here lies the biggest error. When someone drives up for medium-heavy mc this run-up should be done on a regular, heavy mc. The difference in driving between a mid-heavy and a heavy motorcycle is in principle imperceptible. The authorisation shall then automatically apply to heavy machinery after two years. In this way one could have eliminated a driving test. In short, Mr President, a run-up should be enough for heavy or medium-heavy motorbike instead of, as today, two runs. Instead, after two years it shall be automatically authorised to drive a motorcycle over 35 kilowatts. In addition to meeting equally high standards from the point of view of road safety, this leads to slightly more reasonable costs for those who want to drive a motorcycle and is also much less cumbersome. The second element that should be reviewed is the part of the driving test with regard to crawl speed. This does not seem to be based on reality. You should drive a motorcycle in crawl speed along a long track for two minutes without putting your feet down. Anyone who has driven a motorcycle knows that this is never applied in reality. Therefore, we believe that this part of the run-up should be removed immediately. Finally, it should be reviewed whether the parts of the run-up can be broken in two. The driving test consists of a practical part on the track and a part in the traffic environment. If you pass the control test but fail the traffic test, you should not have to repeat the control test at the next run-up. It has already been demonstrated that it has been approved in this area. This cannot, however, be applied in reverse – you have to be able to operate your motorcycle before you are released into traffic. This is a system that is somewhat similar to what has been said here before – what is called putting out twos – but in a driving school. I would also like to say a few words, Mr President, about the design of road railings. The main task of road railings is to prevent downhill skiing and to ensure that vehicles do not pass over to oncoming traffic. The road rails are available in several different designs. In recent times, however, most cable racks have been built, as these are good for cars and trucks. Unfortunately, however, they are a death trap for motorcyclists. From this point of view, the unprotected poles with sharp edges and the wire itself are the main problem. Road tracks are costly but necessary from the point of view of road safety. However, we believe that road safety should apply to everyone on the road. The Swedish Democrats therefore want everyone, of course also motorcyclists, to be taken into account when planning new railway lines. This also applies, if necessary, to the replacement of existing road railings. One model that is gentle and has extremely low maintenance costs is the concrete elements used for meeting separation of lanes. These are both gentle to cascade into and remain if a car drives into them. In addition, the car only gets scraped if you drive into them, not completely trashed like when you drive into a cable rack. This model had saved the life of many bikers. Finally, Mr President, I would like to refer to our proposal on the increase in the speed limit of motorways. Other speakers have been into the same thing. On Swedish motorways, the speed limit has long been 110 kilometres per hour. For 11 years, the speed limit has also been allowed 120 kilometres per hour on several motorway routes. In most European countries there are 130 kilometres per hour, as many people want as a border even on motorways in Sweden. 130 kilometres per hour on the motorway was introduced a few years ago in Denmark, and countries such as France, the Netherlands, Austria, Italy, the Czech Republic and Slovakia also have this speed limit. Poland and Bulgaria have 140, and Germany often has no speed limit at all. Efficient passenger transport is desirable, and short travel time is desirable for many. Even from a democratic perspective, it is right to have speed limits that have broad popular acceptance, as Magnus Jacobsson has also been into. On the routes considered suitable and safe, it is therefore proposed that the Finnish Transport Agency imposes a speed limit of 130 kilometres per hour. The effects of the speed limit increase should of course be evaluated. Should the effects subsequently prove positive, or at least not negative, in terms of road safety, the standard for new construction of motorways should be adapted for 130 kilometres per hour.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-628	Mr President, I would like to Let us now turn to the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy (NU7), a rather comprehensive report. There are as many as 170 claims from the general exercise period 2018/ 2019. It is not easy to overwhelm everything during my speaking time, but I will make a few strikes. Some of the movements are about processing times and regulatory simplifications. We Social Democrats, Mr President, share the view that companies should not have to spend unnecessary time in dealing with authorities, managing permits, providing data or as entrepreneurs trying to understand how to make things right. That is why the government is now working on this issue and is working hard on it. The Swedish Companies Registration Office has been commissioned to introduce digital management of the annual reports. More resources have been invested in the digital platform aktivitet.se. The Government invests in digitalisation work in particularly regulatory industries. As many certainly know, such an industry is the restaurant industry, followed by tourism and hotel and event companies. In addition, it works further to shorten processing times with authorities and to find wise ways to implement changes, new laws and rules. The Government works on the basis of the Swedish Agency for Growth's report Simpler processing processes. Further work is being done to make processing times more efficient and shorter. This week, Mr President, Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan met representatives from the OECD to see Sweden's results in the Regulatory Policy Outlook report. It's a pretty tough report. But it is also a clear call to work even more on this issue. It is therefore gratifying that the government has taken hold of and is working hard on the issue. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to endorse the proposal for a decision by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy and reject all reservations. For time winning, I choose not to follow up our own reservation. Mr President, I would like to The most important thing that a politician can do, I think, is to listen and take on board the challenges that companies bring forward when we visit. I would like to mention four areas that I often encounter when I visit. Number one is an issue that almost everyone highlights, namely competence. The need for competence is very great. Over 40% of companies experience labour shortages. It is also the biggest obstacle for our small and medium-sized enterprises that want to take steps and need to grow. Then, of course, it is important to invest in education. The government's knowledge transfer with about 100,000 new locations is very important. Although it risks being somewhat delayed due to the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats with the support of the Swedish Democrats, the goal is still set for it to come into place. We are also developing a large and important university of applied sciences. We want to upgrade the professional programmes so that more people apply to them. The Government has also commissioned the development of more short and flexible courses to allow more employees to update their skills, for there are still about 100 000 vacancies that are not added to the Swedish labour market due to the lack of the right skills. That's why it's so important for real that we make these efforts and not lag behind there, both for the companies and for the individual who can get a job and realize their dreams. Number two is the housing shortage. How often do we, as politicians, meet entrepreneurs who say that the housing shortage is hampering growth? Here we need to make further efforts and gather together for increased housing construction. In Gothenburg, from which I come, we build more than we have in 40 years. But it is growth-inhibiting that you do not find a home if you want to move to Gothenburg if you find a job there. Number three is infrastructure and broadband. Without communications Sweden stays. The government has invested in a strong roll-out of broadband, which is also continuing now, mainly aimed at rural areas with a sum of over SEK 5 billion, because no one can run a business, healthcare or school today without broadband and fast connectivity. Number four, which is becoming increasingly alarming, is the concern about what is happening with Brexit, trade barriers and Trumps's tolls on cars. The government commissioned an investigation to show that if car tolls were to strike, this would affect approximately 4,000 jobs in Sweden, 3,000 only on the west coast. The Swedish economy is so dependent on trade with other countries. Exports and imports represent approximately 80 per cent of Swedish GDP. We have nothing to gain from increased trade disputes. This creates uncertainty and increases costs for both exporters and importers. It also damages productivity by reducing the flow of global value chains. Mr President, I would like to But there are also encouraging reports. Sweden continues to be at the top of the international ranking of innovation and competitiveness. Some time ago there were figures showing that the industrial companies spend over SEK 72 billion in Sweden on an individual year. It's a new record level. During the 80 years of SCB's measurements, the industry has never been so busy in Sweden. And, Mr President, the January agreement, which forms the basis for the formation of government, is divided into eleven areas and consists of 73 points. Under the heading jobs, entrepreneurship and sustainability, it is stated that the Government's strategic cooperation programme with the business community will be further developed and that the National Innovation Council under the leadership of the Prime Minister will continue. In addition, export efforts will be made for more jobs throughout the country. The existing export strategy will be developed with a focus on sustainability. In addition, measures will be taken to enable more people to become entrepreneurs, and there will be favourable taxation on the ground for growing companies. I think this is really good. In this debate, I have highlighted parts of the whole of enterprise policy. The infrastructure and the education system do not work in Sweden, and it cannot grow and develop. An offensive and effective industrial policy is crucial for Sweden to continue to be a leading country in work and welfare. Sweden should of course be at the forefront of automation, digitalisation, green transformation and the new technology that will revolutionise our everyday lives and certainly our economy. I think it is important that we guard and continue this development, and we are on the right track. In collaboration between industry and politics, and between academia and public administration, joint responsibility is made for companies across Sweden to be able to grow and develop.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-649	Mr President, I would like to Four out of five jobs are created in SMEs. It is a truth that is well established both with us in this house and among the Swedish people. Enterprise creation is therefore central to growth, increased tax revenues and improved welfare. The Swedish economy faces major challenges. Competition is intensifying for both companies and employees. During the previous term of office, the climate for Swedish entrepreneurs deteriorated. In 2018, enterprise openings decreased by 6.6 per cent compared with last year. It's one of the biggest reductions we've seen in almost two decades. The government, like everyone else, says it understands the importance of more and growing companies, but in its actions they go in the opposite direction. Words and actions are not connected. Amended rules for RUT and ROT and not least the government's previous proposal to limit the benefits of welfare long laid down as a wet blanket over the desire to start new in the whole welfare sector. This meant that many did not dare to start new businesses in a particularly women-dominated sector. In Dagens Industri on 18 March this year we could read: Political uncertainty probably contributed to the case that is hitting job creation. "It's one of the biggest reductions we've seen," says Harry Goldman, CEO of New Entrepreneurial Centre Sweden. It is not a fine reading for a boom in this country. The last four years of a Social Democratic-led government have left behind a balance sheet that says in the last row that two out of three entrepreneurs feel that running businesses has become more complicated. It is therefore the receipt of the rhetoric being conducted. Mr President, I would like to Against all the new government regulatory burdens, the Moderates have proposed a battery of measures to reduce the regulatory burden. The starting point is that the regulatory burden on SMEs needs to be reduced in general. We want for each new administrative rule to be introduced a corresponding one to be removed in order not to increase the overall regulatory burden on the person concerned in any case. Major obstacles, especially for small businesses, are precisely regulatory and bureaucracy, which Mattias Jonsson was also concerned with. Therefore, it is extremely important that the Government prioritises work on regulatory simplifications through clear wording in the government's regulatory letters and mandates. We see the need for a door – a platform where entrepreneurs only submit data once in one place and the data is then passed to the relevant authority –. It is extremely important to actively work on how Sweden implements the EU acquis in the country. We do not need over-implementation that risks imposing a regulatory burden on companies that other countries do not have. This must be kept under constant surveillance. We also believe that small and micro-enterprises should be completely excluded from some administration. Access to capital is usually crucial for setting up and running growing businesses. Public capital should therefore be targeted at new companies, but private capital and skills should also be attracted through more generous rules to offer participation, for example in the form of employee options for new companies. As in other sectors, structural barriers such as regulatory constraints and skills matching problems also need to be addressed in order to enable businesses, not least in the tourism sector, to create more jobs. Here we want to see an authority given overall responsibility for the industry. Another industry that can be mentioned and that generates large export revenues, creates employment and is important for Sweden's position as a research and knowledge nation is life science. In addition to competitive conditions, the industry needs to meet a business environment that signals a clear ambition to facilitate establishment in the country. This capacity-building activity seeks international environments with low levels of bureaucracy. We therefore believe that the necessary and relevant regulatory simplifications should be implemented to provide internationally competitive conditions for industries such as life sciences, information and communication technologies and medical technology. Mr President, I would like to There are two groups in society that start-ups can open up great opportunities for. It's young people and new arrivals. The Moderates want to make it easier for both young and newcomers to start and run businesses. Among other things, we believe that the state should in the long term review how we can support Young Enterprise financially. We have suggested that more people should be able to take a course in entrepreneurship in high school. New arrivals should be given early opportunities for introduction and guidance on how to start and run businesses, and an integration track with a special focus on newly arrived women should be established to strengthen their knowledge of entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship and support them in participating in networks, mentoring and business relationships. We have seen on a small scale that this can provide bearing. The government should also deepen cooperation between the state and civil society organisations and, on this basis, establish a coordination function to further promote the entrepreneurship of new arrivals. Digitisation and environmental issues have come high on the agenda and involve young and new entrepreneurs in particular. From digitalisation, the collaborative economy has developed as a phenomenon. The combination has opened the stage for a range of creative entrepreneurs and innovative IT companies, and more companies are now adapting to the new. Among these start-ups are several with a focus on a more sustainable society, where we need to facilitate the conditions for their success. The Moderates therefore want to review what constitutional changes are needed, such as simplifying and adapting the regulatory framework to a digitalised and sharing society. The government should also carry out separate investigations in the relevant industries to allow the technology and sharing economy to enter in a responsible manner that is well adapted to these industries. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates want the government to speed up the transformation of Swedish industry by reviewing how climate-smart technology can be stimulated. Initially, climate-smart technologies could be promoted by means of investment aid that will eventually be converted into a tax credit and in the next research proposal it will be clear how research funds will be directed towards projects that can promote the transition of the base industry to fossil-free production. Sweden needs a vision strategy, and we see two legs with emission-free process technology and technology to remove and store carbon dioxide, what is called carbon capture and storage, CCS. With new technology and smart solutions, Sweden can compete with other countries that have smart solutions. We see that a better division of responsibilities between the state, industry and academia is crucial for success. The state can also clearly play a role by public authorities using innovation competitions. By directing the spotlight on a particular issue or opportunity, competitions can accelerate progress towards ambitious goals. Reviewing regulations and laws is therefore a necessity in order to achieve a more permissive and transparent innovation climate. At the same time, it will never be possible to create optimal test environments covering the whole of society. There should be simple, predictable, technology-neutral and standardised procedures for applying for the possibility of carrying out test beds. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 19 and of reservation 20. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but I am only in favour of these two for time to come.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-667	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 4 and 22 but also to draw the attention of the President to the fact that we naturally support all our reservations. Sweden is moving towards the toughest situation in a hundred years. So it sounded when Sweden's Minister for Finance Magdalena Andersson was interviewed just over a week ago. Her image of the Swedish economy has, to say the least, had some fluctuation in recent years. In connection with the 2014 elections, she was very keen to criticise the fiscal policies of the bourgeois governments, and the expression Despite the allegedly empty barns, she managed with the trick to conduct an immensely expansionary fiscal policy almost from day one, and soon thereafter she claimed that the Swedish economy was strong. It is a statement that can be criticised, given our almost totally absent growth in terms of bnp per capita, our extremely deprived well-being and our total inability to deal with the increasing crime, but well. Probably any government would have acted as the Minister of Finance did if there was a recession. The difference was that Magdalena Andersson did so during a boom. The criticisms of the so-called bourgeoisie therefore did not wait, and the then still existing Alliance was anything but happy with how the Government chose to prioritise. There was, however, a rift in the facade of alliance criticism: the fact that time and again they chose to actively leave the source of criticism to remain in power. Now two parties from this fake opposition have chosen to become support parties also formally through the January agreement. As a reader of the agreement in question, one almost gets the feeling that the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party have competed for who could betray the most electoral promises. It was a competition that was eventually probably won by the Left Party by accepting the whole agreement and its accompanying government without any influence or participation. Having said that, Mr President, I am not going to delude myself too much, as the January agreement actually contains some proposals which affect business in various ways and which we in the Swedish Democrats support. The fact that the dysfunctional employment services are finally to be reformed, that employers' contributions are to be reduced and that RUT is to be extended are three good proposals. The agreement also contains a couple of other good proposals in our taste. But my point is that, as a Swedish democrat, I have no problem supporting and supporting good policies whenever it comes on the agenda, regardless of who wrote or expressed the proposal. On the contrary, I hope that the positive proposals contained in the agreement will become a reality. It is an attitude and an approach that I am convinced would have done wonders for Swedish politics if it had been more scattered and applied in this Parliament. Mr President, I would like to Enough rose and back to rice. The January agreement deserves a great deal of rice from a policy point of view. It contains, among other things, 15 billion in so-called environmental taxes which, in the best of worlds, represent an environmental benefit on the margins, but which, regardless of the potential environmental benefit, will hit the countryside hard and, not least, the economy that operates there. It is also markedly different things to claim in an agreement to express support for various proposals and to actually implement them in the end. The fact that the best proposals for industry may also be at risk of being buried in investigations is also worth mentioning. There is undeniably a difference between wanting to carry out and wanting to investigate, and how big the difference between there is will crystallize this term of office. When we see how it crystallizes, we will also see how strong the support of the Liberals and the Center Party is for the socialist government. If I had – this is an extremely hypothetical example – voted for the Liberals or the Center Party, I would of course have expected my party to have interrupted cooperation with the Social Democrats and the Green Party if they repeatedly appointed a Social Democratic Investigator who was allowed to investigate on the basis of a Social Democratic agenda and then landed in a Social Democratic proposal. But how L and C act in such a situation can only reveal the future, which somewhere points to the problem, that is, the fact that the future is uncertain to our business community. We have a socialist government that, if it is to comply with the January agreement, will both investigate and implement a number of different proposals that historically are anything but Social Democratic. We have a liberal opposition. Or do we? I do not know, Mr President. But in this confusion and mess there is a conservative party with a market-liberal and trade-oriented policy, a party that is doing its utmost to create long-term rules for business and to strengthen innovation and development, a conservative party that will perhaps soon be expanded into a conservative bloc. Regardless of the current situation and government base, we will always fight for a business policy characterised by effective and result-oriented regulatory simplification work, targeted investments for small and medium-sized enterprises and in general strengthen the competitive advantages for Swedish companies. This is what Sweden needs, not least if our Minister for Finance is right that Sweden is moving towards the toughest situation in a hundred years. Because although I do not place too much emphasis and value in the fortunetelling of the Minister for Finance, we are experiencing a recession. In this situation, Sweden needs an effective and result-oriented industrial policy and not a political roulette game à la government formation and the January agreement.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-682	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 15 and 19. Mr President, I would like to Ownership and use rights in forestry have been eroded in recent years. People who in many cases have managed their forests for generations have sometimes had their forests identified as worthy of protection but unfortunately not always received compensation for it. Therefore, mistrust of those who are set to protect the people becomes abyss. Politics and government action, but also lack of action, have actually caused both mental suffering and long-term economic uncertainty for many. Mr President, I would like to In fact, the security of investments and ownership is a fundamental condition for stability in the overall value of forests, which today amounts to about one fifth of Sweden's GDP – more than SEK 900 billion – and annually supplies just over 10 per cent of the values from the entire country's goods exports. It's not that small. There are also many tens of thousands of employees in forestry, the pulp and paper industry and other industries that are directly dependent on forest raw materials, and one in five invested crowns in Swedish industry comes from the forest industry. Mr President, I would like to So there is no doubt whatsoever about the importance of forests for the well-being of the population. Without forestry, we would be poorer. To this will also be added the climate benefit of active forestry. I therefore welcome the fact that the Centre Party has included several measures in the January agreement that strengthen ownership. It is important for forest owners, jobs in rural areas, but also for the forest industry and Swedish exports. Mr President, I would like to According to Growth Analysis, 70 percent of all venture capital exists in the three major cities of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. Maybe it's not that strange. And 50 percent is in the Stockholm area. In other parts of the country, access to venture capital is much more limited and companies find it difficult to obtain loans even from the local bank. That is why the Center Party and I think it really makes sense for state venture capital to exist in areas where the market is failing and where venture capital is almost non-existent. This problem applies not only to smaller companies but also to large and growing companies. I visited a company in Vindeln called Rototilt the other day. They manufacture tiltrotators for excavators. They're kind of like a wrist so you can spin in all directions. I know I don't describe this technically well. But that's about it. The company is in a global market and is now also expanding the premises to double size. But the bank wants some of the shares to lend money for this construction, because they feel that it is of little value in the building because it is located in the countryside. The world's most expensive snowmobile garage, says the CEO. In the past there was a state-owned venture capital company, Inlandsinnovation, with its 2 billion. They focused on loans and participations in companies in northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna. Unfortunately, all parties except the Center Party supported moving these 2 billion that were in the portfolio to the company Saminvest, which was founded two years ago and is based here in Stockholm. It is therefore a new venture capital company. Unfortunately, no company really seems to know about Saminvest. I haven't heard a single company that I've met when I've been traveling around the country saying that you know Saminvest. I think that's a little strange, because it's been two years since the company was founded. I really hope that the company focuses on companies outside the cities and actually throughout Sweden. But I can't see it happening. I therefore look forward to a visit to the committee where we will hear more about their work, including in areas where venture capital does not exist. Mr President, I would like to Small businesses are the heart of the countryside – a focal point that gives a pulse to the countryside and creates local growth, jobs and confidence in the future. Responsive and driven entrepreneurs spread lives and hopes with their businesses. With this in mind, I would like to address Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. I don't know if he's ever gonna see or hear this, but I'm still taking the chance. Stefan Löfven! We need to talk about the fact that you are serious about claiming that you have put an end to the station and country trade deaths that plague many communities around Sweden. First of all, it's not true. The very well-read gas station owner Bogge Bogge from Storuman testifies to the opposite. We are only at the beginning of an event that can be hugely negative. This picture is shared by the entrepreneurship profile Mats Eriksson who travels country and country around. Support for the country merchants is similar to putting a Kalle Duck patch on a white shark bite. The idea is good, but in the long run it's not enough. To give the impression that sandwiches and country merchants can be saved in the long term through contributions from the state is condescending and a strange view of the extremely important work that Sweden's small businesses do for their communities. This is especially true when taxes have been deliberately and systematically increased by up to SEK 50 000 million per year, large costs have been incurred by companies and money has been taken out of customers' wallets via the tax bill. To then try to claim that the station and country trade death is stopped is tone-deaf and not very fair to the heroes of rural and small town Sweden. I think the Prime Minister should apologize. Mr President, I would like to Many entrepreneurs feel that there are a lot of rules. Too much time is spent on administration rather than developing their businesses. Unfortunately, the rulework also seems to have stagnated. This affects the competitiveness of Swedish companies. It simply cannot be reasonable for entrepreneurs to devote much of their time to regulatory problems. It won't hold. The Center Party wants rules to have a sunset clause. It means setting an end date for a rule. In order for it to remain in force, it must be reconsidered and the advantages and disadvantages weighed against each other. Another well-known suggestion is one rule in and one rule out. This means that new rules entailing costs for companies will be met by corresponding cost reductions by removing other rules. For my part, it could even be a rule in and out. In conclusion, Mr President, there are some efforts in the January agreement that will strengthen business. It actually feels good that the Center Party has been a driving force in much of this. I'm going to mention a few things that we've got through. This involves, among other things, a major simplification of both the taxation of micro-enterprises and the regulatory framework for micro-enterprises. More people should be able to test being entrepreneurs with fewer rules and with a flat tax of 25 percent on revenue up to 250 000 SEK. In addition, the requirement for share capital in newly created limited liability companies will be reduced from SEK 50 000 to SEK 25 000. In the case of RUT, the ceiling will be raised to triple. The RUT deduction shall also be extended to laundry, removal, collection and security services. In addition, entry allowances are to be introduced, i.e. the removal of employers' contributions for the first two years in order to employ young people without upper secondary education and new arrivals. There are a lot of other exciting things. For example, the taxation of employee stock options should be reformed by extending the size and population, so that Swedish rules are competitive in an international perspective. There's so much more to list. In fact, I am glad that we have managed to push these issues through. Mr President, I would like to I guess I wasn't exactly happy the day Stefan Löfven became prime minister. I have to admit that. However, I am all the more pleased with the reforms, not least for business, which the Center Party has included in the January agreement. At least it's a little comfort.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-703	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mrs Helena for her speech. Sometimes it may be interesting to look to a person who is not in the Chamber or to the Prime Minister in this case. But I'm thinking about something. What Helena Lindahl said about the investments that have been made in commercial service, shops and sandwiches, surprised me greatly. The Alliance government started an investigation to see how it could change the negative development that meant that many closed down their stores. It was bad for the sparsely populated area. The previous government took this investigation seriously and, in fact, copied exactly the amount of money the investigation came up with was needed. About 35 million would go out. A few years later, an evaluation was carried out and, unlike what Helena Lindahl said in her speech, stated that it had stopped the closures themselves. But one could not see that it had turned around and that the number of stores increased again. At the same time, the Rural Committee was set up. I would like to have an elaborate comment. I was very surprised by the picture that Helena Lindahl has. Where do those figures and data come from? In total, EUR 174 million is spent on commercial services, Mr President.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-707	Mr President, I would like to I'll elaborate on that. We don't mind spending money on country shops and sandwiches – quite the opposite. The problem, Mattias Jonsson, is that Stefan Löfven said during the past weekend that now you had put an end to the deaths of gas station and country stores. That is absolutely not true. I spoke to Bogge Bogge from Storuman the other day. He owns a gas station and runs a project for Tillväxtverket and Region Västerbotten and takes stock of sandwiches around the country. He told me that between 200 and 300 sandwiches are facing the fact that you might have to shut down. Mack death has only just begun. One of the reasons he mentioned is that it has become a bit tougher environmental regulations. This means that, for example, the gas station owner in Harad in Norrbotten will have to close at the turn of the year. He doesn't have the hundreds of thousands of dollars to invest in the gas station. This means, for example, that the home service will have to drive 60 miles [60 km] to fill up the car. What I turned against was that the Prime Minister seemed so stuffed, that is to say, so pleased to say that the station death has been stopped. That's not even true. It's great to add funds. It's welcome. But what he said is not true. There were a lot of people who were offended. They work and work every day trying to get their businesses to walk around.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-712	Mr President, I would like to Helena Lindahl claims it's not true. However, there are studies that show that the support that has been put in place has had an effect. When you look numerically you can see that the closures have stopped. So there is evidence to claim it, unlike when talking to individual gas station owners. There may, of course, be situations such as Helena Lindahl describes and that it might be closed down there. Mr President, I would like to I think it is strong to stand in the speaker's chair and say that it would not be true when there are studies showing that the efforts made have led to such changes that it does not stop. That is why I strongly oppose it. However, I think we need to do more things for rural areas. We need more proposals from the Rural Committee on the ground. We need this country to stick together. We need to put in place the fiscal policy which is now being referred and which is very important for a coherent policy. A number of measures need to be put in place. In addition, we see today that there are various forms of EU support to expand certain shops and service points in sparsely populated areas. To say that's not true was powerful. But thank you for the answer, Helena Lindahl!
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-717	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Mattias Jonsson wants to defend his Prime Minister – I think that's quite natural. But in fact, he stood at your congress and said that the station death had now been stopped. I'm not the one who's been most upset. There are gas station owners and other people in my home county Västerbotten, far from Gothenburg, where you have far from the gas station density that you have where Mattias Jonsson comes from. With us, the challenges are quite different. We have enormous distances. Only Västerbotten's inland is almost as large as Denmark to the surface. I do not know which studies Mattias Jonsson refers to, but I see what reality looks like. These stations are often located in the vicinity of a grocery store, which handles postal services and parcel delivery and is a pharmacy agent. They don't have it very hard. It's great that the gas stations have invested in commercial service. But don't tell me you stopped the sandwich death, because that's not true. Then you don't know the real world. I think Stefan Löfven should travel around the country and look around a little more.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-720	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the Left Party's reservation 6 to be approved under paragraph 3. The Left Party wants to sharpen digitalisation in Sweden a little more. That is why we want the relevant authorities to come back with an internal digitisation strategy in order to improve the efficiency of the management of mainly small and medium-sized enterprises. Sweden, which is one of the EU's most digitised countries, should have a competitive industry at the forefront of digital development and research. We will take a leading position in the international development work. Digitalisation can be the tool for finding solutions to economic and environmental challenges. It also contributes to the creation of new jobs, which can contribute to the efficient and equitable use of resources. Investing in sustainable industries, research, green technologies and innovation are important ways of creating the conditions for sustainable development. The Government's digitalisation strategy focuses mainly on five different sub-objectives: competence, security, innovation, management and infrastructure. But the digitalisation strategy lacks deeper nuances. These developments are moving fast, and it is important that we lay the base in a comprehensive and stable way. Digitalisation should be one of the tools for generating important societal benefits. For example, it can be about climate gains through production efficiency and information building. And maybe it could be the tool to reach six hours' workday. Now that the eight-hour day has celebrated 100 years, maybe it's time. Tax evasion, wage dumping and the deterioration of trade union rights do not belong in a welfare country like Sweden. A political responsibility for digital development is therefore required. We need to have a plan for how we set up working life, how we further train and how we train in order to be able to meet the digitalisation and automation that will take place at a faster pace. We need to have a plan for development to improve quality of life, improve efficiency and increase safety, but not at the cost of the work being done by fewer, to lower wages, and for those who do not have the right education or knowledge to be replaced. Everyone's in. If we do this properly, we will see an expansion of innovation and development that benefits us all. It's not easy to reset. Companies must have the skills, but also the means. In this respect, the State should make a difference by making technology research available to SMEs. Small and medium-sized enterprises also need to take advantage of the skills they all shout for, whether they are in the countryside or in the city. According to the Swedish Growth Agency's report The conditions and reality of the companies in 2017 it is clear that it is primarily larger companies that are digitised. The larger the company, the more common it is to use IT in the business. Of the medium-sized enterprises, as many as 90% use it to a large extent to manage their administration. Of the single entrepreneurs, it is just over 50 per cent. Given the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises to our economy and development, it is directly crucial that digitalisation reaches all levels. We want to see the authorities develop their way of making the administrative contact points more effective in relation to businesses through digitalisation. The idea should be that it should be simple so that small and medium-sized enterprises do not have to spend too much resources on this. The whole of Sweden should be involved, and it is therefore important that rural areas also take part in the digitisation process. We see that rural areas are being eroded both by job opportunities and by public services. Everything is centered in the larger cities. If rural businesses are to have an opportunity, the Internet must reach everyone. If business is to develop, the infrastructure must work everywhere. We see digital communication as a key to facilitating information dissemination and dialogue and also as a means of keeping down the number of necessary travel and transport. This can be developing for rural areas. There are great opportunities in digitalisation. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to take this opportunity to make a sharp criticism of the government regarding the mandate given to the innovation agency Vinnova in its regulatory letter for 2018, i.e. to establish an innovation scout for innovation cooperation in Israel. The government points out Israel as a particularly interesting country for research and innovation in IT and life science and believes that it is of particular importance to strengthen the links between young, innovative companies in Sweden and in Israel. The investment will last for two years with the possibility of an extension. I cannot understand why Israel is being pointed out by the government. Israel is not just any country. Israel is a state that repeatedly violates human rights. The occupation of Palestine is brutal and illegal and is contrary to international agreements. The same applies to illegal settlements supported by the Israeli military, not to mention the detention of children. The blockade against Gaza prevents the introduction of medicines and medical supplies into the population – essential funds for the civilian population being stopped. Israel does not respect agreements and enters any Palestinian territory at any time, killing or incarceration. Last time it was Sajed Abed al-Mizher Mizher, an 18-year-old paramedic who was murdered in Betlehem the day before yesterday. The fact that the government clearly identifies Israel as an interesting country for business cooperation in IT and innovation is remarkable. By doing so, you are normalizing Israel's human rights violations, and you are normalizing the occupation. We therefore believe that the government should suspend the ongoing innovation cooperation with Israel.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-737	Mr President, I would like to I would like to dwell on the Left Party position under Other on business promotion, paragraph 3. After a customary general and relatively non-sensory text, I was struck by perhaps the only concrete proposal that was put forward and which Mr Delgado has just outlined: The Swedish Parliament should therefore announce to the government that it will ensure that Vinnova interrupts the ongoing innovation cooperation with Israel. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to It will certainly come as no surprise to anyone in this House that the Left Party's view of Israel – the Palestine conflict is one-sided – let us stay at it. However, I do not intend by this line to insist that the Left Party opposes the only democracy in the Middle East, the only state in the Middle East that does not try in different ways to terrorise minority groups, homosexuals and so on, in favour of a corrupt non-state that is probably best known for its anti-Semitic agenda. Instead, Mr President, I would like to focus on Vinnova and potential innovation cooperation with Israel, as it is hardly a mere coincidence that the government has singled out Israel. The latest serious measurement of innovation that I have been able to find is the Bloomberg Innovation Index – updated in 2019 – where Israel lands on site 5, even before Sweden. My point is that it is clearly more than justified to work closely with Israel in general and in the area of innovation in particular. Mr President, I would like to My question to Mr Delgado is therefore whether her and the Left Party's contempt for the Israeli state outweighs the obvious benefits of deepening innovation cooperation between our countries and how it is justified.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-742	Mr President, I would like to I am a little perplexed when the honourable Member says that the Israeli State does not terrorise minorities, especially given that different minorities in Israel are actually being distinguished. As a Palestinians, whether you live in Gaza or in the Israeli area, you will note the differences that exist in everyday life. So there is a wall that makes it extremely difficult for Palestinians to enter Israel, for example. It makes it difficult to take medicine to Palestine and humanitarian aid, which is very important. In fact, I question the fact that the honourable Member believes that Israel does not terrorise minorities, for we have seen that for quite some time. The UN is not slow to criticise Israel on these issues. We therefore believe that we should simply not cooperate with Israel until they respect the international agreements that all of us have actually made.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-745	Mr President, I would like to Even Vatican City has a wall. The UN is largely composed of a number of different dictatorships. Of course, if you belong to an Islamic dictatorship, you will be very quick to attack the only state in the world that really stands up for the vulnerability that Jews have suffered through history. Nor do I think that we should talk about which state in the context that terrorises the other most, when we know that Palestinian state television is constantly spreading anti-Semitic stories and when we know that the Palestinian so-called state is paying out subsidies to convicted terrorists who have committed acts of terror on Israeli soil and killed civilian Jews. I don't think we should talk about who terrorizes who. Mr President, I would like to However, what I find remarkable in this context is the fact that this is the only reservation that the Left Party has. We have gathered here today to discuss industrial policy, and the only concrete proposal of the Left Party linked to industrial policy is to make our cooperation with Israel more difficult. I find it very remarkable. My question to Mr Delgado will then be: Is there a nutritional project that Mr Delgado would be behind if it were to interact with Israel? I wonder what obvious positive results that would mean for Sweden. Is everything off the table just because it's about Israel, or are there alternatives that are still up to date? Then it is also relevant to highlight an absolutely last question in this context, given the unilateral image of the Left Party in the question: Do we think that we should do nothing about Israel, which is obviously very good at innovation, where we can learn lessons? Does Mr Delgado think that we should instead cooperate with Palestine in this area, a non-existent state that is not mentioned in any study linked to innovation?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-750	Mr President, I would like to I would very much like to cooperate with Israel when it comes to finding peaceful solutions in the current conflict between Israel and Palestine. As long as you imprison children and innocent people and murder innocent people, I am not prepared to cooperate on projects of this kind.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-751	Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats believe that the conditions of local business are crucial to Sweden's growth. Right now, it's an exciting time we're living in. We can see the advent of digitalisation, which many have talked about tonight. Digitalisation is coming in at full speed, and we do not really know what the ultimate goal is. Our society is also changing together with digitalisation. Today, you can live in almost the whole world and work for a job or an employer without having to be physically present. This places great demands on social planning. The possibilities of digitalisation, for example, mean that more companies can be on the international market, almost regardless of which industry they belong to. You can be self-employed or work in a global company and still have the opportunity to have the same conditions for growth if the conditions exist. Is that possible today? Mr President, I would like to I am absolutely convinced that we need to look at business issues and entrepreneurship from a new perspective, where we work to ensure that Swedish companies and companies have good opportunities to create this growth. Ultimately, these are people who invest time, energy and energy in creating strong and healthy businesses that are developed every day. It is precisely successful companies that are responsible for social development and job creation and that generate tax revenue, which in turn generates welfare. The Government presented a digitalisation strategy in May 2017, where the overall goal, which was also decided by the Swedish Parliament, means that Sweden should be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. Private business is a major part of this, along with the public commitment. We Christian Democrats cannot express enough that we need to simplify the rules as digitalisation goes further and further. But here the government has partly moved in the opposite direction. I've brought it up before and I'm going to say it again. For example, the government only introduced personnel in further industries and companies this summer. This is neither in the signs of digitalisation nor a regulatory simplification for small businesses, but it is a governance towards an outmoded way. The effect is not to make it easier for small businesses. It's even printed out which type of pen to fill in the staff ledger with. To facilitate, solutions are needed in terms of how we work to make the common rules fit into the digital world we live in. Mr President, I would like to As recently as yesterday, a number of heavy industry representatives wrote about Sweden's performance in the OECD Regulatory Policy Outlook – it is not an overly alert reading. As many as 29 per cent of entrepreneurs feel that compliance with state rules has become more difficult compared to just a year ago. Only 2% think the opposite. They pronounce themselves as follows: A competitive Swedish business sector is of crucial importance for growth and prosperity in Sweden. With the right conditions and long-term perspective, companies can meet the challenges and opportunities of globalisation, digitalisation and technological development. The report shows that the regulatory burden for companies in Sweden has increased over time. The Swedish Agency for Growth's measurements show that the administrative costs of the companies have increased by SEK 6 billion in five years. Now, these representatives have also called for concrete talks with the government on how to reverse the gleaming regulatory problem. I hope the government will be able to listen to this. The Regulatory Council was established by the alliance-led government in 2008 with a focus on working towards regulatory simplification for companies. In 2015, the Red-Green Government changed the Council's directives and composition from being a state committee to becoming a decision-making body within the Swedish Agency for Growth. The Regulatory Council's task is to examine and express its views on the quality of impact assessments of draft laws that may have an impact on companies. The overall outcome of the Regulatory Council's review of the impact assessments shows in particular shortcomings in the analysis of the impact on companies' costs and conditions of competition. The Council noted that these aspects are of great importance for companies' ability to work and grow. I therefore believe that the role and position of the Rule Council should be strengthened by making the Council a mandatory consultative body for the Government Office's proposals, so that new laws and regulations as well as changes to existing legislation are as effective as possible. We need to work together. Nutrition policy must be given stable, good and simplified conditions for more and growing companies. The private business community has been, is and will always be the backbone of Sweden's welfare. We Christian Democrats want to be involved in creating the conditions for growth in our companies in the digitization era in which we live. It's not the state that's hiring, it's the companies. We Christian Democrats are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 19, which we have together with M, C and L, and of reservation 24 of us Christian Democrats.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-765	Mr President, I would like to I shall now debate economic policy in Sweden. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight three important elements. During my high school years, I had the privilege of trying out life as an entrepreneur through Young Enterprise. It was so fun and instructive that I took the opportunity to have two UF companies. If I hadn't had the privilege of starting a UF company, I probably wouldn't have taken the step and started my own business a few years later. I will always see myself as an entrepreneur. I also see how much I have learned from both the journey as a UF entrepreneur and the later journey as an entrepreneur. In Sweden it must be as obvious to be self-employed as to be employed. Sweden needs more young entrepreneurs who dare to develop their ideas. I believe that all children and young people should have a chance to learn what entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship mean, but unfortunately many do not have a family member or acquaintance who runs a business. This reduces the opportunity for children and young people to find inspiration and interest in their own business. Since the 1980s, the organisation Ung Företagssamhet has trained high school students in entrepreneurship through the education of UF entrepreneurship. Since 2010, they have also been working at primary school level. We believe that their activities are important for creating entrepreneurs of the future and therefore want all pupils in comprehensive school to be able to access the information about and the chance to test Young Enterprise. Furthermore, we want more students in upper secondary school to have the opportunity to work with their own entrepreneurship by making the course on entrepreneurship available to more upper secondary school programmes than is the case today. In order to do this, the Riksdag should make it clear to the Government that it should review how the state can in the long term support Young Enterprise financially. Will the result be that all those who have been trained in entrepreneurship become entrepreneurs? No, I don't think the answer is that simple. But UF entrepreneurs start businesses more often later in life. They employ more people in their companies, have higher turnover in their companies and also have longer life expectancy than those who have not. In addition, a 2013 report shows that those who have received entrepreneurship education receive higher middle income later in life. They also become managers to a greater extent and have a higher level of employment. For us liberals, it is therefore clear that we should invest more in Young Enterprise. For this reason, I would ask you to accept reservation 9. Mr President, I would like to The second part that I would like to highlight is women's entrepreneurship. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise measures the number of entrepreneurs in the country. This year the results show an alarming trend. The share of entrepreneurs fell in 2018 compared with the previous years. Now the level is the lowest since the measurements started ten years ago. While Sweden needs more and growing companies to secure growth and prosperity, the proportion of people who choose to start a business is falling. It's very troubling. Women's entrepreneurship is particularly worrying as it continues to decline from an already low level. The negative trend is evident in women-dominated sectors such as the welfare sector and the RUT sector. We Liberals are therefore very pleased that, through the 73-point programme with the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Green Party, we have agreed to stop all attempts to make the welfare sector more difficult and to broaden the RUT deduction to more services. It is good for women's entrepreneurship – not least for foreign-born women, as many of them start and work in RUT companies. It is about giving more freedom and more self-determination, and it is a very important part of integration. Mr President, I would like to The third part I want to highlight is the difficult life as an entrepreneur. Any increase in the threshold for entrepreneurship, which makes it more difficult to dare to take the step or, for that matter, to develop one's business, is detrimental to the growth of the country. In a 2017 survey, more than 60 per cent of entrepreneurs responded that they experienced regulatory problems as one of the most important issues to deal with. Sixty-four per cent replied that the regulatory burden was heavier than in the previous two years. In addition, Sweden has lost its international ranking in recent years. The regulatory burden needs to be reduced, especially for SMEs. At the same time, new rules need to be introduced in a society that is constantly changing. In order to prevent an increase in the regulatory burden and administrative costs, we believe that the principle of a rule in needs to be tested, a rule in the case of legislation affecting entrepreneurship – for each new burdensome administrative burden introduced, a corresponding burden needs to be removed. The principle is intended to ensure that the overall regulatory burden on those affected by a new rule in each case does not increase. I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 19. Mr President, I would like to For me and for us liberals, it is obvious: If Sweden is to live, there must be jobs. As a liberal and former entrepreneur, I know that better business conditions create more jobs. More jobs in growing companies mean increased tax revenues, which in turn finance, for example, our common welfare. We will protect and develop Swedish business. Swedish business policy must therefore be based on encouraging more people to start businesses and get more people to develop their businesses. We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 9 and 19.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-782	Mr President, I would like to From the green perspective, active enterprise policy is about fulfilling dreams, creating jobs and contributing to community development. This means that those who have the best ideas for the future should be able to see how these are realised, how innovation drives in a positive direction and how fossils are replaced with renewables. Let us first state that Swedish business is well ahead. On global lists and rankings, we are usually at the top of the list in terms of innovation, entrepreneurship, highly educated skills and digitalisation. The general trend is therefore positive, but even those who are far ahead can, of course, be better. Therefore, many of these issues are also strongly present in the January agreement. One of the headlines is jobs, entrepreneurship and sustainable growth. It states that the Government's strategic cooperation programme with the business community will be further developed, and the National Innovation Council, led by the Prime Minister, will continue its important work. In addition, an export effort will be made for more jobs across the country, and the existing export strategy will be developed with a focus on sustainability. Measures are to be taken to enable more people to become entrepreneurs and to ensure favourable taxation of growing companies. Mr President, I would like to The Government's active work will continue. The government's new industrialisation strategy is not only called Smart Industry – it is also smart. I would like to look briefly at the four focus areas identified in the industrial competitiveness strategy. First of all, companies in Swedish industry should be leaders in digital development and in exploiting the opportunities of digitalisation. This is precisely why the Government has presented a digitalisation strategy that follows the goal that the Riksdag has decided, namely that Sweden should be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation. The strategy is also complemented by a broadband strategy. Secondly, increased resource efficiency, environmental considerations and more sustainable production should contribute to the value creation, job creation and competitiveness of the industry. Here are questions about sustainable mineral mining, circular economy and sharing economy. In all areas, the government has a follow-up policy that is actively pursued. Thirdly, the skills supply system must meet the needs of the industry and promote its long-term development. Fourthly, Sweden should be the leader in research in areas that contribute to strengthening industrial production of goods and services in Sweden. These are four areas that are the main focus of the strategy, and they are about strategic development potential for Swedish business. Let me focus a little extra on issues of sustainability and climate. Concrete, construction, cement, grocery, aerospace, mining and minerals, forest industry, steel industry, haulage, rock materials, digitalization consulting, shipping and heating industries – these industries that I have just read out are the 13 industries that, through the Government's Fossil-free Sweden initiative, have submitted roadmaps for fossil-free competitiveness to the government. The roadmaps shall make visible the opportunities that climate change can bring to the industries. It's about pointing out a direction for the industries themselves – we're going to be fossil-free – and it's also about making visible the benefits that come in terms of the market from actually changing their production and operations. This is exactly what smart enterprise policy is about for us Greens. We do not see the transition to a new and more sustainable society as a necessary evil, but as a process full of opportunities. Sweden will be the world's first fossil-free welfare nation, and it will not be Sweden unless we bring the business community to our work. I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-794	Mr President, I would like to In this debate on regional growth policy, I would like to start by saying that we live in a fantastic country. We will continue to do so. However, there is work to be done to create development, growth potential and employment opportunities. People and businesses should be given the opportunity to grow and develop, and everyday life should work. Growth is influenced by different factors, and companies have access to the conditions provided in the environment in which they operate. Authorities and regulations are not in line with the developments we want to see. Nor is it always clear what has an impact on the tax deposit and what does not have an effect. It is therefore important that the funds are used effectively. The EU grant programme needs to be as clear as possible. The support provided will lead to as many independent and sustainable activities locally and regionally as possible. Business support therefore needs to be refined, clarified and tested against societal benefits. This is done with the help of supporting authorities that formulate targets for the different programmes, and they must be really clear, specific and follow-up. The effects of these must be evaluated. Madam President, I would like When we listen to companies and their organisations, it becomes clear that we want to be able to measure that we are giving money where they are most useful for invested tax crowns. The coordination of business support also has a weak link and is divided into parts where different authorities do different things, while the authorities work towards the same target group. In addition, authorities need to reduce processing times. When municipalities and regions work with annual budgets, they cannot be told that there will be funds. When companies arrive at the second half of the year, the processes are still ongoing internally in the authorities. The Board of Agriculture is one of the authorities that stands out. Madam President, I would like I would like to tell you about a woman working on a project that was allocated EU funds, locally managed development, called Leader, that was funded from the EU's structural and investment funds. Associations, companies, organisations and authorities are seeking project support in an area to promote local development. But listen and be amazed! This woman had to go to the bank and take out loans because the payments were delayed. She had to mortgage her own house. That is not acceptable. Individuals should not act as banks for authorities because money does not come forward. It's a system failure that shouldn't exist. It can also be said that this applies to project funding for the tourism industry. Visit Västerbotten, Visit Dalarna, Visit Småland, or whatever part of the country it may be about, should not have to sit on needles because money is delayed and projects burn inside due to slow handling or bureaucracy. There are simple solutions, but they cost. Previously, the Swedish Tax Agency's website had the possibility to fill in the F-tax note, VAT and employer's contribution on the basis of headings. You filled out your money. It's not like that anymore. Now there are no headlines, and it is easy to make mistakes or forget. It's not supposed to be like that. It must be easy to do the right thing. It is a small thing that makes a big difference if the Tax Agency's website is clear so that nothing is forgotten. It is a clean hygiene factor that plays a role for micro and small enterprises throughout the country. We want many people to be able to start a business, but it should be as easy as filling out an online flight ticket. Another example is companies that are moving. They report a new address to the Swedish Tax Agency, but the register must be reported elsewhere. How did we end up there with double filing? A female entrepreneur is fined SEK 15 000 for having moved to a real address, but the cash register remains at the old address of the Swedish Tax Agency because it requires a second push of a button. That's wrong. Such things must be worked away and instead automated. The programmes must be user-friendly so that applications can be made in a simple way. I would like to mention Camilla Brodin's example of human resources, where it is even written in which pen to use. This has gone the wrong way. Madam President, I would like There is work to be done to promote development, growth potential and employment opportunities. People and businesses should be given the opportunity to grow and develop, and everyday life should work. The burden of business in the form of circumstances in the hands of authorities that make the processing process slow, as I have given examples of, hinders and hinders development. The same applies to day-to-day routines that take time and space from entrepreneurship. That is why it is so important for the administration to be simple and smooth with a way in. I turn to the issue of education. Mattias Jonsson raised the issue in the previous debate on nutrition policy. He thought it was important to be able to take a job after high school. What if you don't even pass high school? There's a concern at school. We will soon have a debate on these issues in Parliament. At the same time, there are shortages. People need to educate themselves, but there are no places to fill. As a result, growth is holding back. We are now in a boom, but, as has been said before, there will be a recession. It's serious. Competences locally and regionally play a role in enabling companies to grow and employ and for us to get more jobs. Crime is also a factor affecting trade and entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurs in places exposed to crime testify to the fact that criminal gangs make it difficult for them to continue operating, while the police and the judiciary are perceived as absent. We have heard the story – or it is not a story but a true story – that in the northern part of the country there is a police car on an area the size of Denmark. Crime makes it vulnerable and expensive to operate. This entails costs for security guards, alarms and surveillance cameras and loss of growth due to lower investments and lower production. Trade is struggling with constant theft, threats and violence, as described in a report. I and my party colleague Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin visited Borlänge a while ago on this issue. It is important that there is security for development. Electricity and energy are another factor that matters. It is not good enough that municipalities such as Malmö, Kumla and Uppsala and others are forced to turn down companies because they cannot do it due to a lack of electricity supply. The switchover to electricity is ongoing, but when the electricity grid is not connected, it affects entire communities, regions and local communities. In Ystad, ferry services have been asked by the local electricity company whether it is possible to shut down operations between kl. 8 a.m. and 8 a.m. 9 in the morning to enable society to cope with the electricity supply. It has consequences in other parts. You ended up in the Environmental Court when you were going to change it. So we stand with a thread in a society that needs so much at once, and it is important that the right things come in the right place. Madam President, I would like There are social and structural problems and regulatory problems affecting regional and local growth. This needs to be resolved. I have described how Sweden can continue to be a fantastic country to live and work in. It is for real that people should be able to function in everyday life, and it should work for them. Last but not least, I would like to highlight the possibility of services in rural areas, which we were discussing in the previous debate on economic policy. It is important that those who operate for the local population have several legs to stand on. It must be possible to link tourism with farm sales so that farmers can sell their products on site. We Moderates from Skåne have exercised for the announcement that the government received in May 2018 to be implemented in June this year. The minister has replied that they are looking at starting an investigation next year. A year is long, and January is not the same as December. I therefore wonder how the parties intend to act on this issue in order to get to grips with getting farm sales in place. With that, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservations 1 and 7.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-814	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by agreeing with Mr Hammar Johnsson's statement that Sweden is a great country. Having said that, I go back to my speech. It relates to Category 19, which we debated in this House just before Christmas. It was about regional growth, just as the NU8 report does. As they did at the time, representatives of all parties in the Riksdag will stand here today and speak warmly for Sweden's sparsely populated area and emphasise that Of course, that's a good thing – as long as you mean it too. Madam President, I would like The debate in December can be considered to be close in time. Any audience may wonder what is new now, just over three months later. In fact, a most significant change has taken place since then. Then I am not referring to the fact that I became the father of a son during the Christmas break of Parliament but to the fact that in January Sweden received a government, when the Liberals and the Center Party put their cards on the table and released an S-MP government. This was preceded by the so-called January Agreement, which contains both gold grains and madness, not least from a regional policy perspective. For those of us who live in sparsely populated areas – not only in Norrbotten, where I myself live – long distances, impoverished community services and a failing population base are a fact. Many have given up and moved to the big city. If urbanisation has been a long-term goal of social democracy, congratulations! With your partners, you will soon be on target. Of course, I am pleased that the January agreement agreed to, for example, complete Norrbotniabanan and try to relocate more government jobs so that not all authorities end up in Stockholm. These are two issues that we Swedish democrats have pursued and for which we are now delighted that there seems to be a majority in parliament. At the same time, regrettably, it is announced that it will reintroduce for the sparsely populated regions such harmful air tax despite the fact that we Swedish democrats, together with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, voted it out in December – the airline tax which, by its design, taxes distances and completely lacks incentives for airlines to become more environmentally friendly. Nor can I read in the agreement anything about the problem of co-financing for the renovation of state roads, which are not rarely just smaller rural municipalities that are expected to stand for – in the first place despite the fact that one of the parties behind the agreement, the Centre Party, has previously pushed this particular issue. Instead, it proposes distance and transport-dependent travel deductions, as if the whole country had the conditions for a functioning public transport system. In Gällivare, for example, where I live, it is difficult or even impossible to travel by bus regardless of whether you have 7 or 70 kilometres to your workplace, and when it is 35 degrees below zero or 3 meters new snow does not help any e-bike premiums in the world – people will take the car anyway. For many, the car is a prerequisite for getting to work. Although the travel allowance today is so low that it does not nearly correspond to the actual travel cost, the Deputy Prime Minister is talking about the possible reintroduction of the automatic annual fuel tax increase. Worrying, we think! The current government's policy therefore risks making it even more unprofitable for people to travel to and from their jobs if they are not located in places where they can travel with SL cards. Although we Swedish democrats stress the importance of, among other things, the transport contribution, it must be pointed out that it is only intended to compensate entrepreneurs in Norrlandslänen for the long transport distances that may otherwise be a competitive disadvantage for them. It therefore does not provide support for entrepreneurs in sparsely populated areas in general. Nor does it mitigate the hard blow to the private economy for anyone who chooses to live and work in Sweden's sparsely populated areas and who, like other citizens, wants to be able to get to and from their workplaces, to greet loved ones and to make use of the increasingly elusive public service. It is, of course, a good thing that the January agreement says that it wants to relocate more state activities to sparsely populated areas. But if you repeatedly make it difficult for people who already live there and push for urbanisation, who are going to take these jobs? How to attract the skills needed to set up these services, which often require specific qualifications? Madam President, I would like In Norrbotten, where I live, the view among many is that it is the government's hidden agenda to be able to blame for skills shortages and recruitment difficulties when the promised state jobs fail and continue to concentrate on the Stockholm area. However, it remains my hope that all parties in this House actually have an honest intention for the whole of Sweden to live – although the parties in the government base have long been in favour of a bipolar regional policy characterised by a lack of impact assessment. Finally, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation 8 in the report. We are, of course, in favour of our other reservations, but for time to come, I am content to ask for the approval of reservation 8 only.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-831	Madam President, I would like I naturally support the reservations expressed by the Center Party in this report, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservations 1 and 5. Since the 1980s, developments in Sweden have resulted in increasing gaps in both population density and GDP per capita. This is a combination of trends that are historically unique. We see a new kind of regional exclusion that risks threatening the cohesion of society. Depopulation in Swedish municipalities is a real problem. Over the past 40 years, the population has fallen in almost half of Sweden's municipalities. Low population numbers hamper the maintenance of social functions such as school, health care and police. In addition, smaller municipalities may find it difficult to recruit and retain the necessary skills. This is true both in the private sector and in the public sector. This challenge, with increasing differences in both GDP per capita and population density, requires political action if we are serious about the whole country living. Globalisation has brought much good, but there are also people who cannot take part in globalisation. To be able to give people confidence in the future is perhaps the most important regional policy decision we can make in this House. I have been doing a rural tour around Sweden in recent months, from north to south. There are many similarities between different rural areas, but there are even more differences. What I have noticed in particular is the powerlessness and desperation that exist in the interior of Norrland. The hinterland of Norrland is extremely beautiful, but the feeling that the state and the public have abandoned the people in sparsely populated areas can be taken on. They cannot understand why you should not be able to build near the beach to attract a few residents to the municipality when you have four lakes per person. They can't understand why you have to go four or five hours to have a baby or get care. They cannot understand how we believe that increasing fuel prices should cause them to travel collectively when there is no public transport. They can't understand why the police don't come when there's a burglary going on. Nor can they understand why the state wants to deprive them of the right to use their own forest without paying for themselves. If we in Parliament cannot make decisions that make people in rural and sparsely populated areas feel involved in the construction of society, the friction and conflicts will increase in Sweden. Madam President, I would like In this report on regional growth there are a lot of good proposals on how to reverse developments, but that is not at all enough. We must continue to deliver proposals that will enable the whole country to live. In this report, the Center Party proposes that state jobs in relocation and relocation be placed outside the metropolitan regions and growth centres. The government has begun to relocate some of the 10,000 jobs that have been created in Stockholm in the last 15 years, but that is not enough. When redeploying state jobs, it should be done to smaller towns and rural towns and not to regional growth centres. It is not only state authorities that should be relocated, but also state companies should decentralise their activities. The Center Party wants the government to clarify the regional responsibility of state companies and authorities. We have seen for years how Heads of Government centralise, even though politics wants something else. It has been the police, the Swedish National Courts Administration, Lantmäteriet, Försäkringskassan, the Swedish Tax Agency and Kronofogden – just recently and still. In addition, the Swedish Public Employment Service will now close more than 130 offices. Do you think that this closure will affect the cities or the countryside? Madam President, I would like Commercial and public service is a matter of course for most people in Sweden but not for everyone. In sparsely populated areas, farmers play a very important role. The Center Party wants to make it easier for country retailers to become agents for government services and state-owned companies, such as Postnord, Systembolaget and Svenska Spel. The issue is important because local service is a prerequisite for a smaller rural area to function. The January Agreement provides for more service offices to be set up throughout the country during its term of office. This is a good thing, but it must not mean that there should be a continued flight of state jobs in rural areas. Madam President, I would like I myself have been a member of the reference group for the cost compensation investigation that is now being referred. Cost equalisation is only a small part of the municipal tax equalisation system and will in no way solve all problems for municipalities with many older people and a declining population base, but it is a step in the right direction. The proposal, which has the name A little more equal, takes greater account of the conditions and socio-economic conditions of sparsely populated areas. We know that it will take more for the municipalities to be able to face the future development of society that we know will come. There is also a parliamentary committee that has worked since 2017 to investigate how municipalities can strengthen their capacity. This investigation has taken the name of the Municipal Investigation. I am also in this investigation, together with the committee colleague Åsa Eriksson. The study will analyse to what extent municipal collaboration, voluntary municipal mergers, changes in tasks, asymmetrical division of responsibilities and other possible measures could help to strengthen municipalities to meet the future. The Committee submitted an interim report in October 2017, and last year we decided in this House to introduce a general possibility of contractual cooperation. This has been well received around the municipality of Sweden. The report will be submitted by October 2019 at the latest – i.e. this year. Madam President, I would like One issue that the Center Party has been pursuing for several years is the return of funds from wind and hydropower. We also propose in this report to examine the question of how tax revenues from property tax on wind and hydroelectric power plants can be regionalised. We think it is reasonable for rural areas to benefit from the values and benefits created there. Broadband and fast connections are another incredibly important rural effort. The January agreement states that the digital infrastructure throughout the country will be expanded. By 2020, 95% of all households and businesses will have access to broadband in at least 100 megabits per second, and all will have stable, high-quality mobile services by 2023. This Parliament has tried a couple of times before to relax the beach protection, and now it will be the third time charm. According to the January agreement, the law on the protection of shores is to be fundamentally redesigned through increased differentiation and increased local influence. A distance-based and means of transport-independent travel allowance shall also be introduced. This in no way solves rural problems, but it is a step in the right direction. There is an agreement that requirements for building permits for those who want to build, for example, a café or a restaurant on their farm should be abolished. An investigation into the sale of alcoholic beverages by farms shall also be carried out. Road maintenance – which is incredibly important for rural areas, especially when it comes to bearing capacity and frosting – will also be reinforced. Access to higher education throughout the country and opportunities for distance learning will increase. According to the agreement, we will also develop a farmer's package to secure jobs and growth in rural areas and strengthen liquidity and competitiveness. We will also review the legal certainty of landowners and entrepreneurs, and the agreement provides for financial compensation for restrictions on ownership and use rights. There are a lot of good proposals in the pipeline, but I am well aware that more needs to be done in order for the whole country to live.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-860	Madam President, I would like I know I won't be popular if I go over time like this at night. Report NU8 is called Regional Growth Policy, but if I am to be honest, it should be called Absence of Regional Growth Policy. I'm gonna let you have some flashbacks from my neighborhood. I know that some of you are going to think, "Now he's going to give a sob picture of what's happened in the countryside." ..................................................... It may be, but I can't help but give you a picture of the countryside. That is where I live and work, and I have been faithful to my home village all the time that I have trodden on this earth. What about my village? In the mid-50s we were almost 100 people in the village. Today there are eight of us who live throughout the year in the village, and the average age is 68 years. The same development has affected the surrounding villages. When I was a kid, I could take my bike to four stores if I wanted to. I mean two on the Swedish side and two on the Finnish side. To be honest, I have to mention that I had to row the boat over the river for the last 300 meters to get over on the Finnish side. By bike distance I mean to the one who was at the farthest, nine kilometers, from our house. Today, I have a shop about 40 miles [40 km] away, and it is located north but lacks all the other facilities located in the city centre south, Pajala, where I have six and a half miles [6 km]. The school was ten kilometers away, and we had two return bus trips to Pajala. Today public transport is completely lacking, and the nearest school is located in Pajala. I think we had as many dairy farmers in my municipality as we have in the whole county today. I think we have one or two left today to deliver milk to the county. We had a dairy in Pajala until 1972. Of course, farms have become larger, and mechanization and automation have done their bit. One time when there really was faith in the future in rural villages was when there was work to be done and agricultural policy was national, and society did not see us sparsely populated people as being in the way of development. What then happened in the late 60s and until the early 80s? Well, everyone was supposed to get out of the country. The big cities needed labor. I know many people who have paid a high price to cling to the village and the countryside. You were punished for refusing to move-- you lost the unemployment fund for 30 days and so on. I know how some who had been a turn to the big city to work but disliked and chose to move back to the village got disparaging comments from government officials who said: Why do you come here from a steady job, here to unemployment to enjoy society? The fact that they were miserable and that the desire for the village was so strong clearly meant nothing. I do not mean, of course, that politics can only be blamed because it has become so sparse in rural areas. But I don't know what to say. Forestry has meant a great deal to large parts of Sweden and, above all, to the countryside. There are villages where all men got their income from the forest in some way. But automation has, of course, contributed to the reverse in terms of development and what happened then. Madam President, I would like The relocation of government jobs is something on which there is a great deal of agreement in Parliament, and that is great. It's just a shame the sinner will wake up late. During the period of bourgeois government, state jobs in the Stockholm region increased by over 8,000 jobs, and by roughly the same number of government jobs decreased in the rest of the country. Now several have awakened, even bourgeois parties. But I can't believe who came up with the stupid idea of privatizing parts of the Arbetsförmedlingen. No one can say that the job coaches that existed were a brilliant idea for the unemployed. We can check with them how it turned out. Here, I would say, the privatisation empire has taken over reason. I know the Arbetsförmedlingen hasn't worked very well, but there are reasons for that too. Madam President, I would like I will be honest with you and say that it has actually not mattered what color the governments have been, because the development has gone in the same direction in rural areas, that is, in the wrong direction. What about medical care? What really happened? I recommend that you read Mats Wingborg's Marketing of Swedish healthcare – that's how it happened. Making healthcare a market is obviously negative in the sparsely populated areas. I want you to think back to when you heard the word care queue for the first time. When did you first hear that word? What happened was that municipalities with eroded population and high middle age obviously had to raise taxes. A person with 25 000 SEK monthly salary who lives in Pajala pays 15 624 SEK more in tax per year than a person with the same salary who lives in Stockholm. And the difference with one who lives in Gothenburg is 6,720 SEK per year. Add to that that the person in the municipality with the highest taxes usually has the worst public service. It is most expensive to get to the store and the most expensive to drive the children, if that happens to be, to leisure activities. They have the most expensive network charges. Yes, the list could be made long. Before I go into the positive part, I just have to touch on the budget that pulled down the grant to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency by 45%. Who is affected by this? This may lead, first and foremost, to less maintenance and, worst of all, closure of hiking trails in the mountains. It is not urban tourism that is affected. Here, too, more money should be directed towards maintaining snowmobile trails in forest areas so that tourism companies too benefit from the grant. Enough whining, Madam President, now I will give you a picture of what could be measures that could reverse the negative trend. Tax equalisation is, of course, something that does not work to the full today. How are parts of the benefits that arise from our natural resources to be more shared by these regions? We in the Left Party have raised motions in the past about land resources, mineral fees, bonuses on hydropower and so on. We must have the courage to take decisions that will bring a little more of the profits that are generated in these regions back to the countryside, because these natural resources are being given away today. I just have to mention a little more. The left would like to see the mineral levy higher but degressive, that is, the more you process, the lower it could be. Why not even a bonus – malus? Then, of course, it is of the utmost importance that mines that exist or come to have long-term owners who look at the whole social picture and not just the short-term profits of the mine. I can develop our view in the debate on minerals coming in May. Now that I'm in the mining industry, I can't help but mention that we have had a negative population development in my municipality for 50 years, except for the year when the mine was opened and started. As I usually say: Like what you want about the facts sometimes, but so it was with it anyway. The fact that it then ended with one of Sweden's largest industrial failures is also facts in themselves. What about the food supply? Here I am convinced that it would be possible to create jobs and living rural areas if we were to decide on our agricultural policy at national level. How much grassland do we have that gives nothing in the form of food? There are endless opportunities for protein cultivation via grazing livestock. What about the resources of the forest? Of course, we will refine what the forest gives to the max and as close to the raw material as possible. In this way, acceptance of all exploitation of natural resources would be something that unites us more than divides us. I mean, of course, also the experience of forests that have been protected by other values, but then you have to make them available. Madam President, I would like It would surely be completely wrong for me if I did not mention something positive that is actually happening in the view of regions that do not have the strongest growth figures. In fact, during the last parliamentary term, things that could be positive began to be addressed: the rural programme, the food strategy, the national forestry programme and support for various forms of commercial services in rural areas. This may be the case when a government cooperates with the Left Party. However, as the government now settles with two bourgeois parties, it remains to be seen whether the tax cuts to the most wealthy men will give more resources to the countryside. It's gonna be exciting to see. Madam President, I would like I must not forget to support our recital 6 reservation in paragraph 3.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-889	Madam President, I would like I have the privilege of moving to the neighbouring municipality of Birger Lahti. As a new Norwegian resident for about eleven years, I recognize the description of Norrbotten. I have visited Norrbotten a lot in my youth and recognize the description of rural problems. Many villages barely exist anymore. They're depopulated. To back up the band to the 50s, where Lahti started his exposé, it is the Social Democrats who have since, with the support of the Left Party, steered Sweden towards this development. It has spread a culture in red Norrbotten that it is ugly to run companies and to own. You should work in the mine or at some large company, but you should not be an entrepreneur yourself. We see a difference there today, but historically we have had an extremely one-sided industry. This has hit hard when automation, as Mr Lahti himself mentioned, has hit the business community. This makes you vulnerable. I am thinking about how Mr Lahti views his own party's part in the situation that has arisen. You have actually been involved in creating this society for almost 70 years, Birger Lahti.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-892	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, which you ended up with, Eric Palmqvist! I would like to make a correction first. We've never been in government. We have not received this benefit because we have not received much support, but I hope it will happen at some point. When it comes to us being a party that is not in favour of small businesses or entrepreneurship, you can download our party program from the net and read how it stands. That I would have to take on the criticism from 70 years ago will be a little wrong. All farmers were entrepreneurs. In my family they have been entrepreneurs in the forest industry, and I have sons who are entrepreneurs. You're wrong if you say I don't want to benefit small business. As for the Left Party to take on some of the criticism of how things turned out, I mentioned in my speech that nothing has happened, regardless of the colour of the government, but it has gone in the wrong direction. There are certainly natural explanations such as the industrialisation that happened and all that, but I do not think that it has been overworked with regional policy. I am pleased that Mr Palmqvist's party has not been in charge.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-897	Madam President, I would like Member Lahti rightly points out that the Left Party has not been in the government, but they have actually been acting as a support party for Social Democratic governments for 60 to 70 years, with a few interruptions. Of course, the policy of the Left Party is to read on their website, but it is not so long since the Left Party's own party leader sat on television and thought that all private ownership could be nationalized. I do not know if this can be interpreted otherwise than that it is ugly with own ownership and running a business, because even the Social Democrats could not find out that everything should be nationalised. What incentives are there to run a business? What carrots? What are the driving forces for the individual to run businesses in rural areas with the risks it could entail if they say from party leaders that they want to nationalise in principle everything? I do not understand this and I look forward to Mr Lahti's explanation.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-900	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Erik, for the short line shift! I would argue that it is a lie that our party chairman has said that everything should be privatised. He never said that. It is meant that our party programme states that the means of production should be public. I must agree that it is a little unclear as regards the means of production. But today, Eric Palmqvist, you pushed through an announcement about Telia. You are so eager that you agree with exactly everything that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise says – that it is clear that Telia will be privatised. We come to that debate next week, but I cannot understand for my life that at this stage, when digitalisation is so important to the countryside in particular, we are making an announcement about selling Telia. There is no sign whatsoever that Telia would be worse in the industry or that it is badly managed today, although there were some bad times in countries like Uzbekistan. 37 percent ownership disturbs the Swedish Democrats so much that they have to make an announcement about divesting Telia, but don't come to me and say that it benefits the countryside to remove ownership from Telia! I think that is a misjudgement, Madam President.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-904	Madam President, I would like A liberal policy for regional growth seeks to create the conditions for those who want to live and work in rural areas or in smaller urban areas. We will take advantage of the unique conditions for individuals' development and company competitiveness that exist in different parts of our country. The basis for our prosperity is and remains entrepreneurship and economic development. Liberals want to give people and businesses all over the country opportunities to grow and develop. In this way, we want to take advantage of the entire Swedish development power, growth potential and employment opportunities. General efforts at national level for jobs, training and an improved business environment need to be combined with regional efforts. The three metropolitan regions are growing fastest, as are the regional cities, while most of the country's municipalities have been drained of population and jobs when businesses moved or closed down. This has led to increased burdens, while public and private services have deteriorated. Worst has it been for the municipalities of Bergslagen, Värmland, Inner Norrland and Eastern Småland, which in several cases have become depopulated areas. I believe that urbanisation is fundamentally based on people's free choice. At the same time, there are differences in the conditions between living in a city and living in rural areas, for example as regards labour market structures and the possibility of getting a job. For people to be able to influence their own situation, there is therefore also a need to be able to live and work in rural areas or in smaller agglomerations for those who want to. Madam President, I would like If Sweden is to live, more jobs are needed. More jobs in growing companies mean increased tax revenues that in turn can finance our common welfare. In order for people and companies to want to live and operate throughout Sweden, it is important that there is access to a functioning basic service at a reasonable distance. This applies to public authorities as well as municipal and commercial services. In sparsely populated areas, service solutions based on local conditions and collaboration with entrepreneurs and civil society have the opportunity to become long-term and sustainable. Every company or organization I've met in recent years says exactly the same thing: We don't find staff with the right skills. One of the greatest challenges of our time is the supply of skills. In order to ensure this, efforts are needed, inter alia, on adult education and university of applied sciences linked to the regional labour market. Madam President, I would like We Liberals are very pleased that, through the 73-point programme with the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Green Party, we will ensure that rural and sparsely populated areas as well as larger cities can develop. The agreement provides, inter alia, for the expansion of the digital infrastructure throughout the country. The goal should be that 95% of all households and businesses should have access to broadband of at least 100 megabits per second by 2020 and that everyone should have access to stable, high quality mobile services by 2023. Then I also know that the beach protection legislation has been a major concern, for example in my county of Värmland. According to the agreement, the beach protection legislation will be fundamentally revised. Amongst other things, we Liberals will be the guarantor of protection and development. Madam President, I would like As I said at the beginning of my speech, a liberal policy of regional growth seeks to create the conditions for those who want to live and work in rural areas or in smaller urban areas. Liberals want to take advantage of the unique conditions for individuals' development power and the competitiveness of companies that exist in different parts of our country. Of course, I support our reservation, but for time-winning I do not endorse it.
i-PBn3hpUycH8K3WhJTaPaWW	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 8 on regional growth. I support the proposal in the report. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a fantastic country but also faces challenges. For far too many years we have seen a country with increased divides, where cities have been set against rural areas. We will work for a Sweden that holds together. The work for a Sweden that holds together affects the whole country. Among other things, it is about the welfare of all people, that all people – women and men, girls and boys – should feel involved, given opportunities to participate in society and be able to influence their living environment and shape their lives according to their circumstances wherever in the country they live. We are therefore now investing in building and equipping railways, roads and homes so that people can live, live and work throughout the country. It has been a strong centralisation in Sweden for many years, and for that matter also in the rest of the world. What we saw last parliamentary term was that people out there in the country were not satisfied with rural development, and neither were we. That is why we made a number of decisions to make it possible to live and work throughout the country. But we have to do more, we have just started – not to allow people not to move to the big cities, but to enable those who actually want to stay where they were born, like me, for example. You should be able to do that all over Sweden. There is, of course, a great potential for development in this. But then we need jobs, access to public and commercial services, skills provision, broadband and so on. That is why we set up a parliamentary rural committee. We also developed a food strategy and a forestry programme. We carried out a fantastic leap in knowledge at all different levels in terms of education. And we made huge investments in welfare. These are things that are important for it to work everywhere in our elongated country. We are also facing a green transition, which also offers fantastic opportunities for Sweden's rural areas. We know that in agriculture we can produce more food that has little climate impact. And the forest has great opportunities in the green transition. Forests and agriculture can provide many more jobs and products throughout Sweden. The tourism industry is another sector that is growing and which is important for the whole of Sweden, and we have also made a lot of investments during the past term of office. Madam President, I would like What then happened in December in this House was that the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, supported by the Swedish Democrats, went through, which means drastic cuts in many areas that directly affect rural areas. This means, for example, the slaughter of Arbetsförmedlingen. Today we have all been told how many and which offices are closed out in our counties. In Kronoberg County, from which I come, the offices in Markaryd, Alvesta, Lessebo, Tingsryd and Uppvidinge will be closed. Five out of eight offices are closed in Kronoberg County. That's what it looks like all over the country. All of you know that you have been watching this issue today. Of course, it affects those who need it the most. I'm thinking about what you were thinking when you made your budget on that napkin. This does not only affect the unemployed. It is also jobs that are disappearing in these municipalities. It is primarily in the smaller municipalities. Green jobs were also removed from this budget. It was jobs that were out there in the country and that also helped get people into this business, an industry that screams for labor. The reduction in VAT on nature guides disappears. And nature lies by definition in rural areas and, of course, in jobs. It's about money to run nature reserves. These are jobs that are being done to a large extent by rural entrepreneurs and who are now losing their jobs. There are additional jobs that are disappearing from the countryside. You can think about the work line. Madam President, I would like The list can be drawn up on how the M-KD budget, supported by SD, has a negative impact on rural areas. We Social Democrats want to continue to relocate government jobs and set up more service offices and perhaps in some way try to compensate for all the employment offices that are now being shut down. We want to continue to invest in the country merchants, so that the shops can remain out in the country. We also want to continue building broadband to continue digitalisation. This is, of course, something that all government, regional and municipal activities need to work with. It is also a development potential for rural areas. We now finally have a uniform regional level throughout the country. We have regions throughout Sweden. One of their tasks is to work with skills provision, which is a very important work because we see a very large imbalance in the labour market. We have heard that here in the speaker's chair earlier today. We also spend a lot of money on welfare, which is also an important part for the whole of Sweden to be able to live, grow and function. We are simply working for a Sweden that holds together.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-930	Madam President, I would like Today, the Environment and Agriculture Committee and the Transport Committee have had a meeting with the Climate Policy Council, which has produced the first report following the introduction of the Climate Act. One of the messages given by the Climate Policy Council is that all industries should be involved in contributing to Sweden achieving the net zero climate emissions target in 2045. Regional development can certainly be the engine of this development. Climate change benefits entrepreneurship and provides jobs throughout the country. Modern and developed rural areas are a prerequisite for meeting the challenges of the future. It is about climate change, but in concrete terms also about food, water, biodiversity, energy, nature tourism, cultural landscapes, technological development and more. Sweden's rural areas offer a rich range of resources and at the same time have diverse challenges and conditions. There is indeed an imbalance between city and country, and there is a big difference in access to jobs, education, public services, public transport, mobile coverage and broadband. Yes, everything has been mentioned in this debate. But there is also a great difference between different rural areas in different parts of the country. The whole country will grow, says the January agreement, which the Green Party has agreed with the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals. "Our policy is to benefit the whole country," it says. There are many good proposals in the policy that we will now pursue in the future. No government agencies should be located in Stockholm. We're going to build the Norrbotnia Line, invest in transport-independent travel deductions and have a green tax exchange. This will promote regional development. Madam President, I would like There are many of us who are committed to maintaining service and trade in rural areas. I want to tell you about Adak, a small village in northern Västerbotten. When I was a child, there were two grocery stores in Adak, a kiosk, a bicycle dealer, a gas station, a workshop and the post office, and certainly more that I don't remember. Now, I'm sure you're going to tell me that there's nothing left in Adak, and that could have been the case. But when the shopkeeper was about to close down, the villagers joined forces. They formed Adak Allehanda and run the store further. Many who used to drive 20 km to shop in the larger town now shop in the village shop. Adak has now also got its own fuel station. One of the villagers said to me: If we had biogas, we would probably have invested in it too. Promoting the capacity to act in rural areas is extremely important. We need enthusiasm and ambition, and we need to see the real image of rural areas. There is also a need for a new business logic in commercial companies, whether in the grocery trade or in gas stations, in order for that type of trade to survive in rural areas. Madam President, if I had had a little more time, I would have liked to talk about how the food trade is developing strongly in Sweden. Eldrimner is the very heart of that work. Today there are 3 500 food crafters in Sweden, and they aim to become 10 000. This will lead to many different jobs and professions finding their way home across our country. We really need to develop the role of rural areas as a motor for Sweden's transition to a climate-smart and more vibrant society.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-941	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that the Moderates are, of course, behind all our reservations, but I would particularly like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 4 for next week's vote. Madam President, I would like It cannot have escaped anyone that it has stormed properly in Sweden in recent years when it comes to gender equality policy. It cannot have escaped anyone what tsunami of gender equality policy demands have been brought forward in the light of and as a result of the Metoo movement. It is not only the demand for a more equal society that has been brought forward, but also the demand for respectful treatment regardless of gender and background in society. This is very welcome and a proper eye-opener for those who have not previously seen the problems we face. But it is also something that requires politicians to be able to act, deliver and actually shape a policy for a more equal society in the future. The debate on gender equality policy and the battle has, of course, been different throughout Sweden's history. Previous generations, especially women, have fought for the right to vote, the right to education and the right to work. Today, Sweden is in many ways a pioneer country, with much to care for and much to continue to develop. We have a more or less equal Parliament and a touch on a completely equal government, which we have had for several times. We are so far missing only a female prime minister. We see how Swedish women are gaining more and more ground in top positions, such as managers and stock market CEOs. We see how in some sectors we have completely equal wages and how women in certain sectors even earn more than men. Sweden is also one of the countries in the world that has the strongest employment among women. This has been made possible by a policy of different colours through Sweden's history. A well-being has been built that enables women to work and reforms that enable women to make careers. New research conducted in recent years clearly shows how Sweden draws away from other comparable countries in terms of women's wages and women's ability to make a career, based on market economy reforms implemented. For example, RUT services free up time and allow more women to make careers even if they still live in a partially unequal country. But there is still much to do and to prioritise. We also see many new problems emerging. We are seeing a completely new phenomenon in Sweden, Madam President: in some areas we have more or less regular moral police officers, who regulate women's mobility and the opportunity to be themselves and express themselves in the public sphere. We see in too many cities how women don't dare go out alone at night, how to tie your fist in your pocket around the keys, hold your phone in the other and fake a call to dare go home. While as a man, I choose the shortest way home in the evening, you choose as a woman the safest way. And, not least, we still see a major problem in society with sexual harassment. Norms must continue to be displaced, but there is also a need for effective political action that is strong. The police must be given the powers and resources to break down the problems we see. Is this what we are prioritising in Sweden right now? No, maybe not. My view, Madam President, is that the government is far too obsessed with equality authorities and quotas, rather than dealing with the major and important issues. Madam President, I would like Let me dive more specifically into some of the matters we have to deal with tonight. Sweden has in recent years developed strong work, with a strong commitment around our elongated country, both to combat honour-based repression and honour-related violence and to strengthen women in vulnerable positions exposed to violence in close relationships by providing them with better support. The County Administrative Board of Östergötland has been working for more than ten years on the basis of a special mission against honour-related violence and oppression. We Moderates would like to see this work become permanent, as we have also proposed. Unfortunately, however, the government chooses to postpone this on the future, which we find very unfortunate. It is a well-functioning operation that deserves a permanent assignment in order to continue to develop this for the benefit of the whole of Sweden. The same applies to the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala, Madam President, which has developed strong work with knowledge assignments, method development, education, information, knowledge compilations and analysis of research needs, in order to ensure a more effective and better work against violence in close relationships. When the Equality Agency was set up, we warned that the work at the National Centre for Women's Peace was in danger of being damaged, which we also see happening now that parts of these responsibilities have been transferred to the Equality Agency. Madam President, I would like It is no secret that the Moderates and some other parties did not want to see the Equality Authority set up at all. Nor is it a secret that the budget that went through, presented by the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, also had as an ambition to dismantle the Equality Authority. Our view remains that it would be much better to give real priority to the work rather than to carry it out in official form. But what concerns us above all is that some of the important work that is being done at the National Centre for Women's Peace is being sidelined when, instead, it comes together in the Equality Agency. We would like that mission to be considerably refined in order to ensure that the progress that has been made can also be maintained. Madam President, I would like Finally, let me briefly touch on the discrimination law that Sweden has had for a number of years. With it the ambitions were greatly increased in Swedish anti-discrimination work, but it now has a number of years on its neck. Our view is that we would have to carry out a broad review of the Discrimination Act and investigate whether it has actually produced the results that we wanted. We also want this House to be able to agree, although we realise that we do not have a majority right now in favour of that proposal. As I said, we support all our reservations, but we would particularly like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 4.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-958	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that, of course, we in the Swedish Democrats support all our reservations, but out of respect for everyone's time, we will only ask for the approval of reservation No 1 and reservation No 10. Last week SVT published a documentary about the now deceased artist and actress Josefin Nilsson. Many with me were extremely upset by the tasks that came out in the documentary and very frightened at the terrible fate that Josefin met. Josefin is described in the documentary as a person full of life force who could sing aloud and laugh aloud – she was as full. Then happened what must not happen but still happens too often. Josefin met a boundless man, a man who beat up both with words and with blows and who was ruthless and cruel. There's a man who should have been stopped before it was too late. Josefin paid with her life, for she was subjected to a man who caused her such damage that she never healed. Unfortunately, Josefin's case is not unique. Violence in close relationships is far from a new phenomenon, and not even in the enlightened and equal country Sweden in 2019 is zero. Behind the closed doors of the home is the harsh reality, namely that violence in close relationships is still a problem. It is a problem that harvests lives in Sweden every year. It probably surprises no one in here that it is often women who are subjected to men, but there is, of course, violence in other constellations as well. No matter who is exposed, society must stop here and now. I do not have all the answers to how this is best done, but I am prepared to do everything necessary. It is important to be able to broaden our perspective in order to see new solutions and to overcome this problem, which brings back lives each year. Many of these solutions will be purely preventive. We can't and shouldn't just work reactively. Having said that, however, I would like to insist that what comes after, that is to say, the penalty, is also an important component, albeit not the only one. This is important not in order to deter, but because we, as a society, indicate that we are on the side of the victim of crime and that we take the nature of the crime very seriously. It cannot be reasonable, Madam President, for an offender to be spared a severe penalty while the victim has to pay the ultimate price. In a legal society like Sweden, it must be expensive to expose other people to violence. It must cost others to suffer the consequences of one's limitlessness, disrespect and shortcomings. Let us never hold back violent men, but let us keep their victims in constant remembrance when we decide in here what penalties we want to see. But of course, as I have already mentioned, other measures must also be taken. We need to focus on preventive work so that we can meet in a dignified way those women who are otherwise at risk of the same fate as Josefin's. There, the National Centre for Women's Peace at Uppsala University plays an important role. NCK operates, among other things, the national support telephone Kvinnofridslinjen. Women who have been victims of violence, abuse and/ or sexual harassment can turn to them for advice and support. The Kvinnofridslinjen is open 24 hours a day and is staffed by nurses and specially trained socionomists who have at least five years of professional experience. Not infrequently it is to Kvinnofridslinjen that the vulnerable turn first. Recent calls have also increased, which is why it is so important that NCK can continue to carry out the important activities that they already have. I am very pleased that there are more parties who have realised the same thing. Madam President, I would like Violence in close relationships is a real gender equality problem that must be met with strong countermeasures. Society must clearly mark and act against those who expose other people to violence and who feel that they have the right to destroy other people's lives. In that respect, it shall never matter who the offender is, if he is known or unknown, or what circumstances he claims to be the basis of his action. In my world there are no extenuating circumstances, for at last it is an active choice to lift your hand to strike. It is an active choice to abuse someone with words or deeds. And as we all know, all actions have consequences, or they should at least have them. I can promise here today, Madam President, that I will do everything in my power to ensure that this happens.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-969	Madam President, I would like A recent inspection report that has examined the proceedings of the police and the prosecutor concludes that criminal investigations are closed, although in many cases there are additional measures to be taken. As an example, in every three cases the suspected perpetrator has not even been heard. The same report shows that these are long processing times, which makes it difficult for the crime to be cleared up. It also makes a big difference depending on where in the country you live. The Council of Europe's expert group, Grevio, also addresses the problem of long-term proceedings and few convictions in its report, which was also recently published. They call on Sweden to take measures within the judicial system to ensure effective management and investigation of all crimes against women. They also point out that the shortcomings have affected confidence in the judicial capacity to investigate. The shortcomings mentioned are extremely serious. There are methods and procedures, but they are not followed. And these matters are not a priority. You might wonder if someone cares. Progress has been made. There are procedures and methods for dealing with sexual abuse. Efforts are being made to improve collaboration. Health care, the police and the judiciary have invested in training their staff on men's violence against women and violence in close relationships. However, without clear management that recognises problems and clearly prioritises this, it will continue to depend on meeting the right person if the crime will be properly investigated. Two policemen pulled out after Jenny Örn's emergency call to SOS Alarm in the middle of ongoing rape. The man is arrested at the crime scene, and the woman undergoes medical examinations showing obvious injuries. The man is not arrested and released after three months. The woman was sued instead of a minor drug offense. There's no explanation about when the test was taken, and if it's even hers, then that charge has now been dropped. This rape is not about a word-to-word situation. When words are opposed to words, it may be difficult to lead something in evidence. But there is evidence from the recorded call to SOS Alarm. There are pictures, and there are samples that were taken right after the rape. However, the investigators did not even question Jenny about the information that they considered to have reduced her credibility and that they indicated as a reason for the case being dropped. Overall, there are many questions about the behaviour of the judiciary in this case. Madam President, I would like Every fifth woman in Sweden and every 20 men have been subjected to serious sexual violence at some point in their lives. This is shown in the study Violence and Health, a study on the exposure of women and men to violence and the link to ill health. The study was presented by the National Centre for Women's Peace in spring 2014. The study shows a clear link between vulnerability to violence and mental and physical illness, not only directly at the time of violence, but also much later in life. In a survey from 2014, the Swedish Crime Prevention Council estimates that one in four women is victims of crime in a close relationship. Of the more than 5 million women living in Sweden, this means that at some point in their lives, 1 250 000 women will be vulnerable in the home by people who claim to love them – in a place and in a relationship where they thought they were safe. Most of these don't report, because who cares? Last Friday the documentary about Josefin Nilsson was released – a fantastic artist who, with his voice and joy of life, entertained and gave so many people joy and comfort, but also a person with a fate shared by so many: where boyfriends become perpetrators, where harsh words become threats, are beaten, becomes damage to both body and soul, where life simply becomes hell. In Sweden there are thousands and thousands of people who share these experiences. They live with memories of abuse or still live in the midst of the inferno that life becomes when someone close to them commits these abuses. Josephine's story is not just Josephine's. It is identical to the everyday life of many women. Her story crawls under her skin just because it's personal and can't get away with it. For those of you who live in the midst of such a situation, there is the Women's Opportunity Line. It's open 24 hours a day. The call costs nothing and is not visible on the phone bill. You can call there if you want to talk to someone about your experiences or if there is something you want to ask about. Those who receive your call are sociologists or nurses, used to meeting people in crisis or difficult life situations. They have confidentiality. You can be anonymous. You're just saying what you want and can do. The number is 020-50 50 50. They're there for you, and they care. Madam President, I would like The fact that it is individuals like Jenny and Josefin who pay the highest price for abuse they are subjected to is beyond doubt. It is these women who are completely unprotected when these cases are not prioritised or investigated by people who do not know what happens in the event of violence in close relationships or rape. The consequences follow with their whole lives, and that is a high price for individual women. First of all, good treatment and legal certainty require clearer management and prioritising of the work of the judiciary; second, effective compliance with methods and procedures. Thirdly, there must be competence in the area of exposure to violence. Resources are also needed to meet these needs. The prevention of violence is, of course, absolutely crucial, and it is a work that must go on in parallel with everything else. The National Centre for Women's Peace has an important role and function in this work, with both Kvinnofridslinjen and its work to contribute with facts and knowledge to better methods and routines in many activities and with its knowledge develop courses for vocational training for all those who will meet vulnerable people in their future work. It is an invaluable and systematic work NCK does. The Center Party believes that their activities should be given long-term prospects and regain their national mission as a knowledge and resource centre. We have pushed for this, and we will continue to push for it. In addition to the issue of individual vulnerability, legal security is important as a crucial foundation of the rule of law and democracy. There is also a huge cost for all the causes of violence. Apart from individual people's economies, which are often torn apart, violence causes costs in health care, in the judicial system, in the absence of professional work – in all that we jointly create and build up. Many years ago, I had the parliamentary investigation service look at what studies there are to study about the cost of inequality. The investigation service then concluded that there are few studies on the costs. There are many studies on gender equality and the lack of gender equality, but only a few with an economic perspective, for example regarding profitability in companies, society's growth or women's income. There are therefore very few studies dealing with the cost of gender inequality for both individuals and society. In 2006, economist Nicholas Stern published a noted report. The report describes a scenario where the impact of global warming is measured in money – not because it is the biggest problem what it costs, but because it has a good basis for decisions that need to be taken. However, the overall cost of an unequal society remains largely a white spot on the map of both scientists and politicians. In order to be able to bring about changes more quickly, it is important that the issue is given a thorough picture from a national economic perspective. Politics needs independent figures on the cost of inequality, not only for Jenny and Josefin, but for the state, for society and for all individuals. Such a report provides evidence that, in addition to the human aspect, it is economically justified to do much more about inequality. Madam President, I would like For this reason, I am in favour of the Center Party's reservation 2, but I am of course in favour of all our reservations and specific statements. We will continue this important work because we care.
i-2QiDWevvL1CAcgLmYNQZsb	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Employment Committee's report No 8, Equal opportunities and anti-discrimination measures. I support our Amendment No 8. Madam President, I would like Violence against women is a serious social problem and has devastating and far-reaching consequences both for the individuals affected and for society as a whole. There are no protected zones. Violence exists in all countries and sections of society and is based on an uneven distribution of power, both at home and in society. Violence and its expression are, as a rule, complex and multifaceted. It is estimated that around 25 percent of the female population in Sweden during their lifetime will be subjected to violence by an perpetrator they have had or have a relationship with. Violence is the exercise of power, and although it is more women who suffer from relationship violence, men are also vulnerable. However, looking at the statistics on violence in general in society, there are clear indicators that women are more exposed to violence than men by an offender with whom they have a relationship and whom they believe they can trust. It is important to have a broad view of the underlying factors why violence in close relationships occurs and is carried out. It is natural to seek simple answers to a widespread and divisive social problem. However, it is of the utmost importance not to use explanatory models where only the individual's actions are in focus. In today's debate, it is easy to talk about the perpetrators of violence as people with severe addiction problems or mental illness, but it risks shifting the focus from the structural perspective that needs to be taken into account when it comes to violence. Furthermore, women's oppression is not conditioned by a particular culture or traditions. Violence against women in close relationships has its roots in the prevailing social structure, where there is a given subordination to gender. In order to prevent women from being subjected to violence by their partner, you need to get to the bottom of what creates violent behaviour. There are many notions and preconceptions about both who is hitting and who is being hit. By shifting the discussion to dealing with those who are being subjected to violence, it slows down the possibilities of preventing violence. Therefore, it is more interesting to investigate and explore why men choose to beat and not why women choose to stay in a violent relationship. The preventive work must be developed and stepped up in Sweden. If efforts are focused solely on care and care for the victims, we will not deal with the extent and consequences of violence. It is only through preventive work that violence can be reduced in society. In the fight against violence against women, women and men who are victims of violence in same-sex relationships must not be neglected. The same applies to women and men who are subjected to honour-related violence and oppression. For this reason, broad and substantial efforts need to be made in this area, and it is the policy's duty to treat violence as the public health problem it is. Madam President, I would like The violence that occurs in same-sex relationships is often invisible and is not addressed to the same extent as other forms of violence in close relationships. HBtq people also do not seek help to the same extent as others, and this is often closely linked to the fact that care and support are often based on a heteronormative perspective. I regret that the committee seems to be satisfied with the mapping currently being carried out by the National Board of Health and Welfare and does not see the urgent need for more knowledge and competence in this area to address the exposure of LGBT people to violence. I believe that the government should urgently set up an investigation focusing on identifying the level of violence for LGBT people and returning with proposals for action. Furthermore, I note that crime victims take a great deal of responsibility for victims of violence. Today, women who have been subjected to violence by another woman in a close relationship are welcome on women's and girls' shelters. When it comes to transgender people, however, it looks different from on call to on call, and many transgender people choose not to go to the girls' and women's shelters. For men who have been subjected to violence by another man in a close relationship, the possibilities for support are very limited. Against this background, the Left Party sees a need for a general upskilling among the authorities and for the LGBTQ concept to be included in analyses and action plans from the start. Madam President, I would like Every year, 13 women are killed by their former or current partner. For several years, the Left Party has put forward proposals in the Riksdag to set up an accident commission to review any case where a woman has been murdered or beaten to death by a related man. Similar legislation was introduced in 2007 for children killed by relatives. It was therefore positive that the Riksdag decided that deadly violence between related adults should also be investigated. The purpose of the investigative activities shall be to provide the basis for proposals for measures to prevent the exposure of women and men to violence or other abuse by related or previously related persons. All cases of fatal violence should be covered regardless of gender of victim or perpetrator. Men's violence against women is the worst expression of the unequal distribution of power between the sexes. Many women have either their own experiences of physical, mental or sexual abuse or know someone who does. Every fifth adult woman in Sweden has been subjected to serious sexual violence at some point in her life. Combating men's violence against women is one of the most important feminist issues. The Left Party has been pushing for a long time to put an end to men's violence against women. It covers everything from legislation on child marriage to prevention and long-term financing of the important work of women's shelters. In the autumn of 2017, women and non-Binary people all over the world came forward during the Metoo and testified about the sexism and sexual harassment and abuse that men have subjected them to. In Sweden, over 70 000 women have given their testimony, and the stories continue to flow. Metoo is a revolution that demonstrates the need for a loan for a series of political changes. Basically, it's about putting an end to men's over-order. Power must be shifted, which is closely linked to economic equality between men and women. The struggle and the work continue. Burns for all who have been exposed. Burn for Josefin.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-999	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I am in favour of reservations 6 and 10. Madam President, I would like The government we have today calls itself a feminist government. It is a designation that seems to me to be mostly placard politics. In reality, there are today large areas that the present government is more or less negligating. This applies, for example, to the violence of honour that is spreading. Young men and girls are threatened and harassed because they want to live their lives in freedom and make their own choices. They walk with constant fear. And there are many of them. In a recent study in Stockholm, it turned out that one student in ten lives under honorary standards. Those are scary numbers. There are several in each class. They say they can't marry anyone they want. Seven per cent say that they have also been subjected to violence by their family or relatives. Unfortunately, violence sometimes ends in tragic deaths. We also know that girls are being abducted, out of Sweden, for forced marriage. The girls are desperate, but hardly anyone can count on any help. We hear about girls who are sexually stymied and who need care to restore their injuries. These are injuries that are not only physical but also psychological but also for life. For several years now, we Christian Democrats have been putting forward proposals in Parliament that several different measures need to be taken to prevent honour-related violence. Part of this is to get a special criminal classification in the penal code so that the violence is taken seriously and made visible. I hope that we will also see this soon. The government has talked about this, and I hope that we will soon see such legislation. We have also proposed, and added, funds to this in our budgets, to something in Britain called Forced Marriage Unit. It is a police unit that, in cooperation with the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, could prevent someone being forced out of Sweden to be married. This unit is located in the UK, and when I visited the unit it emerged that they have access to several different legal means to intervene in support of vulnerable girls. For example, parents who cannot present their daughter to the unit within 24 hours may be arrested. In Sweden we have not seen any of this. The Minister of Justice has repeatedly said, including in an interpellation debate I had with him in December 2015, that it is difficult to carry out. Recently in a Question Time it was also difficult, but now they said that they are working on the question. My question to the government parties is: how long is it going to take before there is such a unit for coercive poison? Madam President, I would like I think we all agree that we must do everything we can to tackle violence in close relationships. Many of us have seen the documentary about Josefin Nilsson's fate. The documentary was distressing and showed how little we do to protect and also prosecute violence against women. We cannot accept that 7% of the population is victims of crimes in a close relationship. In 2016, the Government developed new targets for gender equality policy, which we then decided on in the Riksdag. We Christian Democrats felt it was a pity that the sub-goal Men's violence against women was so narrow. We believe that violence in same-sex relationships was not involved. This was also something that several consultation bodies pointed out. I therefore do not understand why the government chose to leave that part out. In a reservation, the Left Party believes that the government should urgently set up an investigation focusing on identifying violence that occurs in same-sex relationships. I can agree that this should have more focus. It is sad that the government parties make this violence invisible in their gender equality goals. Madam President, I would like In the former alliance government where the Christian Democrats were involved, major efforts were made on gender equality. We invested – historical – over SEK 2 billion in various gender equality efforts during our time. These were concrete projects in support of gender equality. The current government has decided instead to focus and money on a gender equality authority. We find it sad that it has decided to take funds from concrete activities that help vulnerable women to lay down an authority. We listened to the criticisms of the consultative bodies, but the government obviously did not. Statskontoret, for example, suggested that it should try to have a smaller delegation that could hold different contributions together, something that we from the Christian Democrats supported and thought one should try. But what the government did was to take money from the prostitution unit in Stockholm, from the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala and from the County Administrative Board in Östergötland, which works against honour violence. Now we do not know if Östergötland can remain on a national mission against honour violence. After the January agreement, we also do not know whether the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala will receive continued support. Both Moderates and Christian Democrats and Swedish Democrats question the government's priority. In a committee motion, the Center Party has proposed that Uppsala should have long-term prospects for its activities but does not support it now, here in the report, but is content with a specific opinion. We could have secured the future of the business here today, but now the cooperation parties will wait and see. The so-called feminist government therefore spends more money on administration than on concrete activities aimed at vulnerable women. I regret that the Liberals and the Center Party support this decision. Madam President, I would like The situation of women in the labour market is important for women's economy and for women's pensions, but also for the national economy. Women's participation in the labour force is high in Sweden, and several countries in Europe want to follow this example to strengthen their economies. When the Prime Minister was at the EU summit the other day, a declaration was adopted with Council conclusions on employment, growth and competitiveness. That document, which the government had been involved in producing, did not contain a single word on the importance of women in the labour market. The so-called feminist government did not even try to get a single word on women into the labour market in this EU document. Efforts on women's entrepreneurship also shine with their absence in this government. Similarly, efforts to prevent discrimination and disadvantage of pregnant women and parental leave, as highlighted by the Ombudsman for Discrimination. Termination and threats of dismissal affect many women who are pregnant and on parental leave. We believe that the government should take stock of this in order to see what can be done. Madam President, I would like There is much more to talk about when it comes to gender equality, but my time is up. My conclusion is that there is a great deal more to be desired in the area of equality and discrimination. I hope that we will soon have a new government to make that effort.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-1019	Madam President, I would like We are dealing with the report by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, AU8 on equality and anti-discrimination. I would like to begin by calling for the proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. It has long been argued that equality is the opposite of growth, but research is clear and, on the contrary, shows that equality is good for growth. Without growing gaps, Sweden's growth would have been as much as 20 percent higher between 1990 and 2010, says the OECD. There are many reasons for this. As class divisions grow, this means that most people have a worse economy. The wheels start to spin slower when people have less money to move with. It creates anxiety that makes people feel worse, study less and produce less. The best way to create a successful society is thus to reduce inequalities, more equality and more equality. Madam President, I would like In SCB's report Separate worlds? you can read about the demographic differences that exist between different groups in Sweden. There is a difference between highly educated and low-skilled people, between native and foreign born and between residents in different places. The difference in life expectancy between women and men is 3.2 years higher for women. The average life expectancy of women is 84.6, while that of men is 81. 4. But there are also large differences in this, and the main differences in life expectancy are found in differences in educational attainment. With a longer post-secondary education, the average life expectancy is 87.3 years for women and 84.9 for men. Life expectancy is lower and lower the shorter the education you have. It is the lowest for those with pre-secondary education. There it is 82.2 years for women and 78.8 years for men. There is thus a difference of about 5 years for women and about 6 years for men depending on the level of education. Those with higher education also have considerably more healthy years. What is alarming is that for the low-skilled, life expectancy does not increase, but vice versa. For low-skilled women, it decreases. Why is that? SCB writes:.The development of recent years indicates increased social differences in the change in life expectancy. ..................................................... This means that the fight against increased gaps and for better working environment, more secure employment and less stress is not just about pay. It's about our lives. Today, far too many jobs are insecure and short, and services that should be open-ended only become general fixed-term contracts – especially in welfare, commerce and hotels and restaurants, i.e. in the sectors that are dominated by women and have the lowest wages. In these industries, there is also a lot of work in uncomfortable times. Only 40% of women in working-class jobs work only during the day. This increases the risk of women taking the greatest responsibility for unpaid domestic work. Madam President, I would like The goal of Swedish gender equality policy is for women and men to have the same power to shape their lives. Formal obstacles or social aspects should not prevent women from having the same opportunities as men to be active citizens of society and shape the conditions for decision-making. The balanced distribution of power and influence between women and men in all sectors of society is, of course, not a guarantee that real power is distributed equally between the sexes, but it is a crucial condition for the exercise of power to be able to change in an equal direction. There is also a need for a more balanced distribution of financial resources. The income gap between women and men needs to be levelled out. But even if the differences in pay disappear, the problem is not solved. Many women have precarious jobs. But I don't know from one day to the next if you have a job the next day. Insecure employment also means that you do not dare to complain about your salary, your work environment or possible harassment. If you do, you risk not getting another job. Women in low-wage jobs also often work involuntary part-time work, and if you have managed to get a full-time job, the employer can easily reduce your position – so-called planing – with lower income as a result. This limits these women's ability to have power over their lives. Madam President, I would like It is estimated that about 100,000 suffer from honour-related violence and oppression. We can never accept this. The substantive agreement reached between the Centre Party, the Liberals, the Social Democrats and the Green Party emphasises that honor-related crime and repression should be prevented, prevented and punished. Our Prime Minister was clear last week that he wants to sharpen the tone when it comes to honour crimes. He said it doesn't belong here. It suffocates people's freedom not to choose for yourself how to move around in society, who you hang out with, who you're in love with, wants to marry. It is a severe restriction of people's freedom. It's not Sweden. He also said that we have been doing too little for a long time and that the issue should be fought with sharper penalties so that anyone who commits crimes with honorary motives should be judged extra hard but also by changes in attitude and increased knowledge. Violence and oppression constitute serious violations of women's and girls' right to physical integrity and self-determination over sexuality, childbirth, relationships, education and economics. It is based on strong patriarchal and heteronormative notions and is also aimed at young men, boys and LGBTQ people. Understanding the oppression of honour is a prerequisite for being able to work on the issue. Both vulnerable and professionals and other interested persons need to have knowledge, advice and support in this area. Madam President, I would like Sweden should be a country where all people are recognised for who they are, given the right to define themselves and have access to equal rights and opportunities and where protection against discrimination is one of the cornerstones of human rights. In order to achieve this, there needs to be continuous work to prevent discrimination in all its forms. No person should be discriminated against on grounds such as ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, age or gender. Nevertheless, there are people who are faced with prejudice on a daily basis and who are thus at risk of being discriminated against. This may include, for example, the employer's prejudice against persons with functional variations, age or gender. This can be about people who are discriminated against on grounds of ethnic origin or sexual orientation. Almost two years ago, the Parliament decided on changes to the Discrimination Act, which means that work on active measures in the workplace and in the field of education should cover the same grounds of discrimination as the prohibitions on discrimination. This is one of several elements to combat discrimination.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-1039	Madam President, I would like We do not have a Minister for Gender Equality here today in the debate, nor does the chairman of the committee, but I am grateful that Marianne Pettersson is here to answer for the government parties. Marianne Pettersson talks a lot about gender equality goals. In my speech I had a question about men's violence against women. How does Marianne Pettersson see that same-sex relationships are not included in these sub-goals? Another issue is the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala. There we have had to leave a reservation because we cannot get any guarantees for its continued existence and for investments to strengthen long-term conditions for the business to take place. When the Equality Agency was to be established, they were in Uppsala and had to cut back on activities and tell them that they had to cut back on one and the other. We were very worried. Some of the activities are thankfully left, but we feel a great worry about the future in terms of how the National Centre in Uppsala will go. Could Marianne Pettersson comment on that?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-1043	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. The issue of violence in same-sex relationships is included in the national strategy. It is not only a question of combating men's violence against women, it is also a question of violence in close relations, honour-related violence, violence against men and boys and the exposure of LGBTQ people to violence. All these groups are included in this. When it comes to the activities in Uppsala, I have no other tasks but that it should continue.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-1046	Madam President, I would like It is a good thing that same-sex relationships and the violence that exists in close relationships are included in the strategy, but we would still like to see it made clear in the interim objectives. I think we still lack that. When it comes to the National Centre for Women's Peace, we must follow it very closely. It may be good for the government to know that we will be monitoring what resources it will have. Finally, I wanted to ask you a question on another matter I raised earlier, about which I have been going on quite a bit in this House: Forced Marriage Unit, as it is called in English. I think it's a very good expression. It's a unit that can work directly to make sure you're not taken out of the country and get married. As I understand it, there is something similar to this model in Norway as well. How do the Social Democrats view this proposal? Is that something that will be seen this year? Will any proposal be made? The Prime Minister has said that we should sharpen the tone and tighten the penalties, but I have not seen so much concretely.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-1050	Madam President, I would like When it comes to crimes of honour, we are talking about new legislation that will apply from 2022. There, the issues will be investigated between 2019 and 2021. It is about getting more knowledge about the issues, that the rules on expulsion can be tightened up and that the protection of the vulnerable should be improved. I can't do that anymore. This is the only thing I have been told, and it is quite new. It is incredibly important that the issue is kept in focus all the time. These are people who really need our support and protection, so I will also keep an eye on this issue.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-1052	Madam President, I would like I take up where Mr Pethrus closed. Madam President, I would like After four years of the government parties having ignored, ignored and relativised the problems of honour violence and crimes of honour, it has now been promised that changes will be made. The tone has been raised, we were told in the debate. We've also been told it's going to a penalty, but it's not until 2022. Why do the government parties want to wait four years with much-needed legislation? Why should the 100,000 young people who today live under the pressure of honour wait four years?
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-1055	Madam President, I would like It is true, as the honourable Member says, that this issue has been discussed too little. There has been too little effort in the past, and this was also expressed by the Prime Minister in the interview where he spoke about punishment. We do not have enough knowledge of these issues. There have not been enough investigations. It needs to be done. It's not just about girls and women, it's also about what we talked about earlier – about men, boys and LGBT people. All this must be included in the legislation so that everyone gets the protection they deserve.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-1057	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Social Democrats feel that they do not have enough knowledge. It is very possible that this is the case. It is also very possible that the whole government does not have enough knowledge. I can also note – although it is a late hour that we are here and have this debate on gender equality – that the Party of the Minister for Gender Equality is not even represented in the debate. The truth is that there is already an investigation into what a punishment might look like. There are also better options that would produce even better results than a penalty. If you actually want to see tougher penalties, you would need a separate offence for honour violence and honour crimes to ensure that you really get tougher penalties for this type of crime. This opposes the government, if I understand it correctly. We also need to ensure that the perpetrators of the offences are not only properly punished as being convicted, but that they can also, in so far as they are foreign citizens, be expelled from the country. I wonder what the government's position is on this. There are, of course, reasons for making decisions. There is, of course, the possibility of taking more far-reaching and more effective measures than the Prime Minister proposes with his new, stronger tone, which could be taken considerably earlier than 2022.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-1061	Madam President, I would like It feels safe that there is good knowledge here in Parliament. It has been shown that there are major shortcomings in the knowledge of honour crimes, how they affect them and who it affects to the full. As far as the penalty is concerned, it has been announced that there will be a separate offence that these crimes will be dealt with during and that will be included when looking at the new legislation.
i-d60e64c60077bdfc-1063	Madam President, I would like The hour is late, but rarely has it felt so urgent to debate gender equality as in these days when we are still working on the documentary about Josefin Nilsson's life. She lived with a man in public who subjected her to both physical and mental abuse, but the public chose to close their eyes, choosing to turn their eyes away. Looking back, we say: How could we not do something? Why did the media, public opinion, the man's employer, and so forth not react? This happened in 1997-1998, just over 20 years ago. It's been a long time, but still just now. We can argue that we didn't understand, that we didn't know better, that metoo came much later. But Sweden in 1997 was definitely a country that held a high standard of equality, a country that liked to speak or perhaps rather preached about the importance of equality in aid and the importance of equality in international cooperation. And we had already introduced the first father month. Of course, it has been a long time ago, but the idea remains that our actions did not respond to the self-image of us as a pioneer in gender equality issues. We can't turn the story back. But we can learn from history, and we must do so in matters relating to men's violence against women, but also in other issues relating to equality and discrimination. I do not want anyone else to be in this speaker's chair in 20 years' time, much like we do now, and say that we did not understand the scope of, for example, the honorary culture in Sweden in 2019. This is one of the reasons why the Liberals have been exercising on a sixth objective of gender equality policy aimed precisely at making gender equality visible in integration. Madam President, I would like LGBTQ people are still people who are more at risk than others of being discriminated against and not having their rights met. A strategy can not least at this time of day sound dry and boring, but properly implemented it can be absolutely wonderful. In fact, strategies form the basis of the work done by the state. The national strategy on equal rights and opportunities regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression, developed under the Alliance Government, needs to be updated. We therefore want a new national LGBTQ strategy to be developed for further work on equal rights. Who should act against violence, harassment, culture of honour and discrimination if we are not in this building? This is where the responsibility lies. This is where responsibility is to be demanded. Finally, we support all the Liberals' reservations, but in order to save time, I only ask for reservations 3 and 9.
