i-e99340a50fb4f158-0	Madam President, I would like Yasmine Posio has asked me whether I intend to work to: Sweden shall be ready to resume aid to the Government of Zimbabwe in the event of a lasting improvement in the human rights situation. Sweden will use the long-standing relationship and aid to highlight the Zimbabwean government's abuse of human rights. Yasmine Posio has also asked me whether I intend to: Continue to support the people, civil society, opposition and human rights defenders in partner countries where governments are moving in an increasingly authoritarian direction Take the initiative for Sweden in the EU and the UN to act on the growing debt burden and develop a strategy to prevent debt crises. I share Yasmine Posios's concern about the situation in Zimbabwe. In addition to the many difficulties caused by multi-annual political and economic mismanagement, the country has suffered a humanitarian crisis due to drought and a worsening economic situation. Cyclone Idai has recently further worsened the situation. The hope that last year's elections would be the beginning of a clear turn for the country has so far not been fulfilled. Zimbabwe is still in transit. Long-term developments are uncertain. Swedish aid to Zimbabwe is flexible. Preparedness is in place to quickly re-examine it and adapt it to new conditions and political developments. This is stated in the Government's Development Cooperation Strategy with Zimbabwe, which was adopted in 2017. It also states that, in the event of positive political developments in the country, a gradual increase in cooperation with state actors could be considered, where it is assessed effectively and strategically for the implementation of the strategy. There is therefore the required level of preparedness. I also share Yasmine Posios view of the importance of Sweden's continued active presence in Zimbabwe. Sweden is today the only Nordic country with an embassy in Zimbabwe. Of the EU Member States, Sweden is the second largest donor. This, together with our southern and long-term policy for democracy, development and human rights in the country, gives us a strong role to play. With this in its back, Sweden continues to send clear messages to government representatives in response to the unacceptable violations and violations of human rights following the elections last year and at the beginning of 2019. We are witnessing a global decline in human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Today, more people live in countries with authoritarian tendencies than in countries that are making democratic progress. That is why the government has launched an offensive for democracy. The aim is to provide support and nutrition wherever democracy can grow and to be critical when it is utarmas. We shall continue to promote and strengthen civil society, including human rights defenders, strengthen the free and independent media and strengthen the voice carriers of democracy. It is about supporting democratic processes, promoting the emergence of effective and independent institutions, combating corruption and promoting young people's commitment to democracy. That also applies to Zimbabwe. Through the aid, Sweden also helps to counteract the negative trend. When others choose to withdraw their assistance to civil society in authoritarian countries, it becomes more difficult for civil society to operate. Therefore, Sweden continues to support civil society actors and work long-term, including in Zimbabwe. The growing debt problem in several countries, including Africa, is cause for concern. The government actively participates in the international discussion on debt issues including the prevention of debt crises. The work takes place in several forums, largely within the IMF and the World Bank, but also in the UN's Financing for Development process, where the EU coordinates the Member States. Another example is an international high-level conference on debt issues and development finance, which will take place tomorrow in Paris and where Minister Andersson will have an active role. In this context, Sweden is pushing, among other things, that both borrower and donor countries should take responsibility for ensuring that debt levels remain sustainable and the importance of transparency regarding debt data.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-12	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Eriksson for his answer. In previous motions, the Left Party has highlighted Zimbabwe. At that time, it was about the authoritarian rule of the now deposed President, Robert Mugabe, the agricultural reforms and the increasing debt burden. Now the issue has been raised because the new President, Emmerson Mnangagwa, has not complied with the Constitution but continues in the same authoritarian spirit and also because of the cyclone that recently hit Zimbabwe so hard. Therefore, together with other MPs and political secretaries from various parties here in the Riksdag, I travelled to Zimbabwe for a study trip organised by Diakonia. At the same time as we were able to see how Swedish aid works and how important it is, many thoughts and questions were raised about political governance and attacks on human rights activists, civil organisations and the media, as well as questions and thoughts about future development. During my study trip to Zimbabwe in mid - March, I met some thirty organizations and visited two shantytowns to talk to those living there. Their needs are excruciating. It is about better access to water, toilets and electricity, as well as free schools, freedom of expression and uncorrupt public access. A pac et butter today costs about $1 (U.S.). Queues to the gas stations circled hundreds of meters. Unemployment is 90%, and many students drop out of school prematurely. In the midst of all this, girls and women are further affected, for it is they who run the home, are forced to drop out of school and are beaten and raped by their frustrated men or by other men, sometimes even by boys on their way to and from school. The inequality is enormous between the power elite and the people. The deposed President Mugabe still has the same salary as before, 20 employees serving him and a luxury car at his disposal. We can only imagine what it's like for the rest of the power. After the coup in November 2017, when Mugabe was deposed and Mnangagwa was elected president, there was a hope of change in Zimbabwe. However, the new President – who was also a high-ranking military and co-chairman at the Gukura dog thing in the 1980s, when over 20 000 people were murdered in south-west Zimbabwe – has continued on the same authoritarian path. Just a few weeks ago, 263 Chat's office was attacked with tear gas after reporting on the police's so-called cleansing of street vendors in Harare. There are repeated reports of reprisals against human rights activists. Madam President, I would like The reply from Minister for Development Eriksson describes Zimbabwe as being in transition. It has now been over a year since the election of Mnangagwa as President, and although he initially said what the outside world wanted to hear, he has shown what he is capable of through his political action. We in the Left Party agree that it is good that Sweden is using its long-standing relationship with Zimbabwe to convey clear messages to government representatives in view of the unacceptable human rights violations and abuses that have taken place, which continue to happen. I would like to know what it is in the action of the Zimbabwean Government that makes Minister Eriksson still think that Zimbabwe is still in a transitional period. I would also like to know how likely Minister Eriksson believes it is that those responsible for Gukurahundi will be held accountable and what the government is doing to make this happen.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-22	Madam President, I would like Zimbabwe is in a very difficult situation. It is essentially a country that has been mismanaged and mismanaged for a very long time. There has been a regime that has abused power and also mismanagement of human rights and development issues. It also has an economy in Zimbabwe where it basically has very positive and strong opportunities. There are large natural resources and a population with relatively good education in many cases. But the economy has been mismanaged and there is widespread corruption that makes the country in a very bad condition. It's a downhill slope that just seems to continue. We had some hope after the coup that changed the regime last year. But so far it has not been a positive change in line with what many had hoped for. If it's a transition, you'll see afterwards. Our work from the Swedish side is still about supporting through humanitarian aid and supporting civil organisations and civil society in Zimbabwe. We do not do that directly through a collaboration with the Swedish Government, Sida or so. We do so through Swedish civil society organisations and UN organisations that we support. Half of Swedish aid goes to strengthening civil society and to try to contribute to the maintenance of the rule of law. It is about strengthening people's ability to use the justice system when they are accused or have been imprisoned. That is the type of measure. This is very worrying. However, unlike some other countries that have abandoned Zimbabwe, we from the Swedish side have found it important to see and support the people of Zimbabwe. We also have experience from a number of other countries where they have worked with civil society during a very difficult and tough period. It's been important when you finally get a change. I recently visited Armenia, which has had a new government. There, civil society organisations and people from there contribute to the new regime. Having been able to function through assistance, among other things, they have the skills and the ability to cope with this change. It is very important that we continue to support and do what we can. This is particularly true now that Zimbabwe is in such a humanitarian crisis as it is. Food is lacking, and it is very expensive to buy food at all. The gas lines are long and ring along the streets. In addition, the country has suffered both drought and cyclone, which helps to aggravate the situation.
i-QikaBA8ydkeupgnmqr8UeA	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Eriksson. I didn't get an answer about Gukurahundi. It would be interesting to hear how you view it, if you think that those responsible will ever be held accountable and what the Swedish government is doing to make it happen. I would like to take this opportunity to move forward with what is the advantage of Swedish aid and its long-term prospects, as the Government highlighted. In my last speech, I highlighted the huge gaps between the power elite and the people. A country with a lot of natural resources and good arable land should not have so much unemployment and poverty. Instead of building a stable country, however, the power elite has taken the opportunity to shoe themselves. The agricultural reform, which could have been a success story in view of the fertile land in Zimbabwe, became a fiasco when the estates were not given to the skilled local population but instead to men in both the government and the military. The land that previously produced so much that the country exported agricultural products is barely grown today. If I had travelled between Harare and Bulawayo 30 years ago, I would have seen full of cultivated land. But just over a month ago, I saw only sly and a few skinny cattle that went there and grazed. Unfortunately, in this situation, when freedom of expression and assembly are restricted, when oppositionists are imprisoned, tortured and killed, and when civil society activists are silenced, some countries have chosen to withdraw their aid. They refer to the authoritarian regime and the dwindling democratic space. This is despite the fact that it affects the people. Sweden has instead chosen to continue its assistance through civil society organisations and the UN in particular to build democracy from scratch, strengthen women and support them, and ensure that the children of the shantytowns are helped to cope with schooling and have leisure activities. Recently Zimbabwe was hit by a cyclone, something we have both highlighted. It destroyed home and land for hundreds of thousands of Zimbabweans. If all countries had left their aid work in Zimbabwe, it would have been an extremely long process to get some kind of emergency aid going at all. However, thanks to the remaining countries supporting civil society, emergency aid could be launched relatively quickly, although much remains to be done. It is also good, Madam President, that Sweden, in its strategy for Zimbabwe, is prepared to rapidly change direction in aid if the dialogue with Zimbabwe and the people's desire for a more open, free society free from corruption were to be heeded by the new President. We appreciate that. Although it is extremely important in these times of shrinking space to support civil organisations, they alone cannot change the situation in the country. The authorities need support in changing their work so that the country becomes more transparent and legally secure. Swedish authorities who worked in different countries to get to good governance together with the authorities there have a very good reputation. Then it is good if we can act quickly and stand up with that support again when it is up to date. Madam President, I would like There is a need for many more countries that are equally agile and interested in this type of aid. It would be interesting to hear Minister Eriksson's views on how the government is working to get more countries to see the value of long-term aid and stay in recipient countries that are going in the wrong direction to primarily support the people and civil society and then be able to quickly change direction when we see a political will in the recipient country to become more transparent and legally secure. How are the discussions on these issues taking place in EU cooperation?
i-e99340a50fb4f158-42	Madam President, I would like Actually, it is a subject of another interpellation debate. It is about how we are to organise the entire community of aid and finance it. The Swedish strategy is based on the fact that we provide much of the core support to UN organisations. In this way, we create opportunities from the Swedish side for the UN to function long-term and flexible so that efforts can be made quickly when needed. You can also work long-term, not only in connection with certain projects identified. Unfortunately, many other countries do not want to do so. They focus aid only on individual projects and things that may be easier to focus on in the media in the short term. It's a big worry. These are, among other things, the issues on which the whole reform of the UN system now under discussion in New York is concerned. We hope that this will lead to a more sustainable system. But there are many who do not want to be part of a system where, for example, everyone agrees to be a financier in the core business of the United Nations. That's a question. Another question is what to do as an individual country when a country goes backwards in development. We have a number of such examples. We have the situation in Congo, the DRK, which is close and which can sometimes feel difficult or hopeless because it does not seem to be getting any better. We have a country like Tanzania, which we are working with now, to which Sweden has been providing assistance for a long time but where the situation for democracy and human rights is now going backwards. How are we gonna work on this? We have a little different ideas, but the Swedish foundation is that we set up a strategy for each country with which we have bilateral cooperation. There we take a five-year position on how to finance the business. How much should we cooperate, and in what way should we cooperate? Then we can switch up if it goes in the right direction. In Ethiopia, we recently contributed SEK 200 million because we see that developments are moving in the right direction and that the country has a government that wants to reform and create a more open and better society for its citizens. In Tanzania, instead, we are now having a discussion about possibly cutting back on aid because of the negative developments. Here you have to try to get a voice from the regimes and play with the resources you have to show that you support a positive direction in both cases. I was also asked whether I believe that there will be some form of trial or judgment for those who have abused human rights or achieved things that are very serious. So far, you can only hope. It is important in these situations to gather evidence and knowledge of what has happened in order to use it in a different situation in a legal process.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-50	Madam President and Minister Eriksson. I would like to conclude by saying something about the growing debt. The IMF warns that 15 African countries, including Zimbabwe, are in the high risk zone for a debt crisis. Over five years, sub-Saharan countries have, on average, increased their debt from 30 to 50 percent of GDP. Unlike previous debt crises, where loans were mainly with the IMF and the World Bank, these 15 countries have largely turned to private lenders. As these loans are generally more expensive, more difficult to monitor and run over a shorter period of time, they are particularly risky. The Left Party has repeatedly exercised that Sweden should act more forcefully to meet the growing debt crisis and develop a strategy to prevent new debt crises. We therefore welcome the government's commitment to this issue, but we call for even more concrete proposals. International institutions and countries in the rich part of the world have a great responsibility for the debt crisis of several countries. Much of the loans have gone to dictatorships despite the fact that the lenders have been aware that the loans would not benefit the population. In these cases, it is clear that the lenders are jointly responsible for the debt, and the debt is then to be regarded as illegitimate. In Norway, the government has appointed a debt audit to investigate how much of the country's claims on poor countries are legitimate and illegitimate. Sweden should follow the Norwegian example and push for a global debt audit. To prevent the debt situation from getting worse and new debt crises from arising, changes in the global economy are needed. Among other things, the Eurodad network proposes a principle that always puts respect for human rights above debt repayment. For example, it should not be allowed to cut back on health care and education in order to pay off debts. How does Minister Eriksson view these proposals? Can the Government develop and concretise the government's policy to meet the debt crisis of the poorest countries in particular?
i-e99340a50fb4f158-57	Madam President, I would like We see that there is growing concern about debt issues. I was recently in Washington at the World Bank Spring Summit, and there this was discussed. It is clear that these are issues that have become increasingly topical both in the International Monetary Fund and in the World Bank in the last few years. The positive thing about this is that we still have low interest rates in the world economy. However, those countries which are now beginning to get a high level of debt, such as Zimbabwe, and which are beginning to fall out of control for what they can do often end up in an even more difficult situation when they turn to China or to other private advisers who demand significantly higher interest rates. That is why this is a serious and important issue to continue working on. It is interesting that tomorrow we will have a high-level conference in Paris on these issues. Sweden is a driving force, but requires both borrower and borrower countries to assume their responsibilities in this context. Not only can we make demands on the donors, but we must also make tough demands on those who take the loans. It may not have been done sufficiently in the past with regard to Zimbabwe, but today the World Bank is making tough demands on the country. We must also ensure that we create systems for getting out of the situation.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-60	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin has asked me whether I intend to work towards abolishing the university test if cheating continues. In recent years it has been discovered that there are organized cheatings at the university exam. F usket is a threat to the legitimacy of the university test as a selection instrument for higher education. The fact that people have been given access to attractive educations through cheating on the university test may also, by extension, threaten confidence in universities and higher education institutions. Therefore, more measures to prevent cheating on the university exams are necessary. In 2016, the Government introduced an opportunity for the Swedish Council for Higher Education to decide on suspension from the test for two years for the user of unauthorised aids. The Authority was also authorised to make further arrangements for the test. The Swedish Council for Higher Education has introduced a requirement, with the examination in autumn 2016, for participants to provide a statement that they have not used unauthorised aids or have otherwise tried to mislead during the examination. If, contrary to his declaration, a test participant has nevertheless misled and provided false information at the time of the test, he may have been guilty of the offence of false declaration(Chapter 15). Section 10 of the Criminal Code). Even the person who promotes the crime without having carried out the act himself may under certain circumstances be sentenced for aiding in untrue assurance. The Swedish Council for Higher Education has also taken measures relating to the design of the tests. In August 2018, the Government appointed a special investigator to assess whether certain additional measures should be taken in order to prevent cheating at the university test. Among other things, it is a matter of considering whether a requirement for body visas at the university test in order to prevent the use of unauthorised aids can constitute an acceptable restriction on the protection of the government form against body visas. On 11 April 2019, the Government decided on an additional directive. The investigation will also investigate whether cheating on admission to higher education leading to a revoked admission decision should mean that a possible pass grade on a higher education course is withdrawn. The government has thus taken measures against cheating at the university exam. Through the missions to the special investigator, we have also shown that we are prepared to take even more. The university test fulfils an important societal function as a selection tool for access to higher education. The government believes it is urgent that there are several ways into the university, and the university test should continue to be such a way to a second chance. It is therefore crucial that cheating is stopped so that confidence in the legitimacy of the university test as a selection instrument is not eroded.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-67	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I want all people to be able to reach their dreams, whether you're young or old. It can be about realizing dreams of a profession that you don't have grades to. Therefore, the university test is incredibly important – for everyone to have more opportunities to reach the goals of their dreams. In April, more than 67,000 people took the university test. It is a unique opportunity that has been around for more than 40 years and gives many people another chance to get into the education they dream of. Unfortunately, there are cheatings. It probably has been in all times. But with the new technology there are now refined designs with wireless earpieces and other technical aids, alongside ghost printers and other things, to make it look like I have succeeded in the test. Of course we shouldn't allow cheating. We should never accept that any person through cheating takes another's opportunity to reach the goals of his dreams. What worries me is that the Minister for Higher Education has written a debate article, published on 6 April, in which she says: Then I wonder in my interpellation: would the Minister like to abolish the university test if cheating continues, and what should we have instead?
i-e99340a50fb4f158-73	Madam President, I would like Cheating at the university exam is totally unacceptable. It should not be possible to cheat past and also take the place from someone else who has studied hard to get into an education. The university test has been in place since 1977. I and the government believe that it is an important instrument for us to be able to have a wider recruitment and for more people to have a second chance, a more equal opportunity to access the extra attractive training courses where you need to use selection. I very much stand by the fact that the university test is an important selection instrument. We shall be very careful about this and protect it in Sweden. But it must also be that we overcome the cheating on the university exam. Otherwise, we are undermining legitimacy not only for the test but also for our universities and colleges. That is why I am very committed to ensuring that the cheating is stopped, to taking action to ensure that we completely get rid of the cheating from the university test. That's how important the college exam is to me and the government. I would also like to ask a question back to the moderate Member of Parliament Kristina Axén Olin. I very much appreciate that Kristina Axén Olin is clear in the debate that the Moderates are also standing up for the university test. But you actually went to elections that you want to give higher education institutions greater opportunities to design their own admission processes. Then my concern is: Isn't it to elitist universities and colleges a little bit by the back door? If everyone is allowed to do a little as they please, is there not a great risk that the second chance that the university test represents – a fair university test that people carry out without cheating – will be something that is lost and disappears in Moderate policies for higher education?
i-e99340a50fb4f158-77	Madam President, I would like I am very happy to discuss at another time how we should view our higher education institutions in the future. There's a lot to do there. We see universities in Sweden as shortcomings in quality. One example is the evaluation we received most recently from the teaching colleges around Sweden, where not even half of the courses reach the quality you want. We definitely need to discuss this: how do we increase quality? How do we increase the level of education? How do we ensure that more people graduate? How do we get more higher education institutions that reflect the demands of the labour market? My interpellation, however, is about the university exam. In that discussion, I think we are in complete agreement – at least we seem to be – that the university test is a great opportunity. We also fully agree that cheating is totally unacceptable. But I still do not get an answer to my question why Matilda Ernkrans then, in a self-written debate article, says that if we do not overcome these problems, we need to look at whether we can even keep the university test, and what we should have. If the Minister does not support the words she has written in the debate article, it is better to apologize and say that she is withdrawing and that that is not what she meant than to say things like this and not to mean them. Or does the minister think that you are seriously considering closing the university test? If so, what are we going to have?
i-e99340a50fb4f158-81	Madam President, I would like I think cheating on the university exam is so irresponsible, so irresponsible and so bad for all of us who stand up because we need to have a fair university exam as a real opportunity to enter higher education when you compete for places that there are more applicants to than there are places that I really want to inculcate the seriousness: If we do not get this together so that the cheating disappears from the university exam, there is a great risk that we will not be able to maintain legitimacy. That is why I am inculcating the seriousness of this debate. Cheating at the university exam is totally unacceptable. Cheating in should never ever be a way for an individual to move forward in higher education. I hope the Moderates can also support this. Getting rid of the cheating on the college exam is so important that we do everything we can to stop the cheating. This government has taken action. Nowadays it is possible for the Swedish Council for Higher Education to turn people off. If it has been noted that you may have cheated on the exam, you must not rewrite the exam for two years. You can also be separated from your education. It is the universities that make those decisions. The Swedish Council for Higher Education can also decide to report to the police – and that is what you do now in any case. You, too, can be judged on false assurance when the court proceedings have taken their course. It shows how important the government thinks it is that we stop the cheating. There is also an investigation, the report of which I will receive in June, which looks further at this. For example, can we do more when it comes to body visas to stop cheating? I myself have taken the initiative for an additional directive to the investigation: if you have been caught with cheating and lost your place but still have taken points during your time in education, how should we look at these points? How can we look at this legally? You want to keep the score or not? I want to be very clear in this debate that I feel an enormous commitment to this. I'm going to keep making sure the cheating on the college exam goes away. It's a guarantee that we can keep the college exam. It is important to inculcate the seriousness of this. The cheating must be removed for the university exam to remain. And I want to keep my college exam. The government wants to keep the college exam. It's an important second chance. It is a good, more equal opportunity to gain access to the most attractive training courses. I want to keep my college exam and I'm going to do everything I can to maintain that legitimacy.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-86	Madam President, I would like I believe that I and the Minister fully agree that this cheating is unacceptable. I welcome all the measures taken by the government and the investigation that may be able to shed light on further opportunities to curb the fraud. As I said, we should never allow anyone to cheat into a place that would actually have gone to someone else. Nevertheless, I am a little strengthened by my concern when Matilda Ernkrans maintains the view in the debate article that it is necessary to consider not keeping the university test if the cheating continues. I ask my question again and again: what are we going to have in that case? And what limit does the Minister intend to set for cheating: one, two or five years? If we see that there's still cheating in five years' time, are we gonna stop taking the college exam? What does the Minister really mean? If so, what are we going to have?
i-e99340a50fb4f158-89	Madam President, I would like Cheating at the university exam is totally unacceptable. I have wanted to impress on you the seriousness that it should not be possible to cheat by and also take the place from someone who has studied hard to get into an education. I'm going to continue to inculcate that we need to get rid of the cheating on the college exam. If no one has understood the seriousness of this, it is sometimes necessary to take an extra serious note and say that if we do not succeed, we risk the legitimacy of the entire university test. I'm not gonna be the one to take away the college exam. I am going to be the one to ensure that we get rid of the cheating on the university test so that we can keep it as the important second chance and the important more equal way of getting a wider recruitment also to the most attractive incentives for those who have studied the hardest and can really much.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-91	Madam President, I would like Kristina Axén Olin has asked me what measures I will take to reverse the negative trend and improve school studies. I would like to begin by emphasising the importance of order and study in classrooms and the safety of all girls and boys and all staff at school. Education in schools must be designed in accordance with the School Act to ensure that all pupils are provided with a school environment characterised by security and education. In July 2019 changes to the curriculum for primary education, among other things, will enter into force. They clarify the principal's special responsibility for this. The responsibility of pupils to show respect for school staff and other pupils is also highlighted by these curriculum changes. Ordering and learning in the classroom is a prerequisite for students' learning and development. A safe working environment also promotes the attractiveness of the teaching profession. The school's work to achieve security and education includes disciplinary measures as well as educational leadership and to counteract insulting treatment. As with much else in school, both clear rules and systematic development work are needed to achieve the results we seek. I have recently answered similar questions about safety and education at school. I am pleased that there are many of us who are committed to these issues that matter both to students' knowledge and to the working environment for everyone who works in school. My information remains clear. The agreement reached between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party states that a national plan for school safety and education will be drawn up during the term of office. This work includes reviewing the possibilities for disciplinary action and ensuring a functioning regulatory framework for good work with safety and education at school. Students who have threatened or subjected others to violence should be able to switch off or relocate more easily. The disciplinary measures of the School Act should be used by teachers and principals. Teachers should be able to carry out their work with security in their professional activities and with the support of the principal and school head. With a well-functioning regulatory framework based on a comprehensive approach to security and study, we can together turn the development for the better in this for school and society so important issue.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-98	Madam President, I would like Minister for Education Anna Ekström! During the autumn of 2018, the Swedish School Inspectorate conducted the School Survey for the 17th time since 2010. A report with a selection of results was presented in April. This time the focus was on security, study, support and stimulation. These are fundamental areas that affect pupils' learning and teaching. They are therefore central in the classroom and in the audit, according to the School Inspectorate. The result was worrying. About one in ten students do not feel safe at school. And as many as three out of ten students in grade 9 feel that teachers and students do not respect each other. Three out of ten students feel that there are no students in class. The worst grade is grade 9 where more than 30 percent answer that the student is not good. The picture that emerges in the School Survey is deeply worrying – it is an incredibly large selection of surveys that are answered. We really cannot say that developments are moving in the right direction. I therefore wonder in my interpellation to Anna Ekström what measures the Government will take to reverse developments and improve school studies. In that case, an answer to the question of the establishment of an investigation under the January agreement is not sufficient. It is urgent to solve these problems.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-103	Madam President, I would like Threats and violence at school are totally unacceptable. When it occurs, it should be corrected. Rectors and teachers should have a clear and clear regulatory framework to adhere to. It should be a regulatory framework that can be used and that leads to increased security and increased studyo. There is today a set of rules in the school law. We know that they are being followed to varying degrees in different schools. I am pleased that the Swedish School Inspectorate's school survey has highlighted safety and study. I also see it's not a coincidence. The school inspectorate is out in very many schools and of course reacts to what one sees in the form of lack of security and studyo. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that the school inspection's skull survey does not serve as an evaluation in such a way that it shows a development over time. If we are to follow the developments over time, we will have to go to the attitude survey prepared by the Swedish National Agency for Education or possibly to the international surveys. Of them we see that this is a problem in Sweden. I would like to point out to Kristina Axén Olin in particular the picture that emerges in the Talis study. It's got a few years on it's neck. However, it became clear that Swedish teachers highlight lack of security and study as a serious problem, and to a greater extent than teachers in many other countries. So it is clear that we have to do this. Kristina Axén Olin speaks a little contemptuously about setting up investigations. But Kristina Axén Olin is well aware that it takes a preparation basis to bring about changes in either curricula, regulations or laws. As far as I am concerned, it is natural to make proposals that are well-prepared and well-founded. They should also be anchored in the teachers' and principals' corps that will handle the regulations in reality. This is an issue that the government does not take lightly. The issue of security and study will be important during the term of office. I will work hard to ensure that Swedish schools are a good study environment for students and a good working environment for teachers. Kristina Axén Olin does not need to be concerned that this is an issue that is taken lightly.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-109	Madam President, I would like I am not worried that this is an issue that is taken lightly. But I'm worried about the situation in today's school. As by chance, the Minister of Education refers to the Swedish National Agency for Education's attitude survey as a better source of what it really looks like. We got it last week and also met Peter Fredriksson, Director General of the Swedish National Agency for Education. This survey of attitudes even makes me even more worried. If you read the survey, which was published last week, you can see that one in four teachers says that during the last academic year they have been exposed to threats and violence at the workplace. But what is perhaps even worse is that among secondary school students, the proportion of those who feel disturbed by other students in most or all classes has basically doubled since 2006. What is perhaps most serious, Anna Ekström, is that the proportion of pupils who feel bullied by other students once a month or more often has doubled since 2015. These are incredibly serious figures. There is no need for an investigation to focus more on how to curb bullying or the unacceptable in bullying, threats, harassment and not having peace of mind. There is already a regulatory framework. We are in agreement and have discussed earlier in this Chamber that there may be a need to review certain parts of the regulatory framework that are or are perceived as unclear by some teachers – other teachers are completely satisfied with the current regulatory framework. However, we cannot wait until investigations are carried out during the term of office. You can do things today. If you think this is important, you can make a web-based education that can quickly go out to all teachers. This can clarify regulations and also provide advice and tips, for these exist. You can also publish newsletters and do all kinds of things to quickly improve the situation, so that it doesn't escalate and get even worse while waiting for an investigation that might never come– what do we know? Madam President, I would like I'm worried, and I think the minister's worried too. That is why I would like to join forces in order to take urgent action. This can be done in parallel with investigations if we now want to look more closely at the regulatory framework, which would certainly be good to do. However, we really must try to change this now. We cannot have a continued escalation of bullying and insecurity at school with more students who choose to stay at home and teachers who do not want to work at school. I can't do this.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-116	Madam President, I would like I can only repeat what I have said: the issue of safety and study is important. That is why the government is taking a number of measures. Kristina Axén Olin commutes in her speech between thinking that it is bad to investigate things because it takes time and to say that it is good to investigate things. I choose to catch a on the times Kristina Axén Olin says it is good to investigate. Kristina Axén Olin asks to hear what is also being done. I can tell you that within the framework of the national school development programmes with which the National Agency for Education works and which provide support in the teaching situation for the country's teachers, principals and other staff at school, a special portal has been introduced. It is about how to work with leadership in the classroom to ensure security and studyo. Within Collaboration for the best school, which is a major development effort with which the Swedish National Agency for Education works, security and study are included as an important part of the work. It also includes the work of the vice-chancellors to promote security and education, as well as the work of teachers to deal with teaching situations that can sometimes be quite difficult. Resources are, of course, needed to do this. Here the government's big investment in school is of great importance. Starting last year, we introduced a completely new state grant for the Swedish school, the so-called equivalence grant. It is earmarked money to go to school and, to a greater extent, to schools where the needs are greatest. There are also major investments in student health. Sometimes we talk about security and study as if it were a matter for the classroom alone. However, I would like to point out the great importance of pupil health in this work. The substantial efforts that have been made in the field of pupil health have resulted in much more staff and stronger work in an area that is very important for safety and education. I would also like to point out the change in the curriculum which the government was working on just now and which is coming into effect soon, on 1 July. The curriculum change indicates that students not only have a right and a duty to go to school, but they also have the right to receive a good education. The student who makes an effort at school should have a good chance of learning as much as possible. Students also have a duty to exert themselves, to do their best and to contribute to a good study environment for teachers but also for their peers. This curriculum change is introduced following a proposal from the School Commission and is based on major international research, which demonstrates the importance of students' commitment to creating a good study and work environment in school. The fact that there is a connection between good knowledge and safety and study is something that we agree on. This is a work that the government takes very seriously and is working on both in the long term and with immediate action. A lot of these measures have been in place for some years. As a minister, I will give priority to issues of security and education, because I know that this is important for both students and teachers. Perhaps the most important thing is for those students who need the school most. It's about students coming from home where there's no study experience. There the school can mean the whole difference so that they can build a good life.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-126	Madam President, I would like Minister! I also believe that there are things on which we agree. Possibly we do not agree on the tempo and what to do. I'm very worried. The bullying has increased and doubled since 2015. Anna Ekström says that measures were already taken a year ago, but that is not enough. In the attitude survey that came last week, we can see that this is constantly increasing. Then we have not taken sufficient measures. That's why you have to think new and do something fast. Last week I met students who attend the teacher education at Stockholm University. Not once has the word leadership been mentioned throughout their education, and they graduate this summer. There is so much to do when it comes to school and education. Much can be done today without costing any money. It does not cost anything to teach the students at Stockholm University in leadership. Also, organising digital education on bullying issues does not have to cost a large amount of money, although of course a little work is required. On the other hand, it costs huge sums of money for every student we fail with. Over 5 500 students do not go to school, but are so-called home sitters. That is, by the way, a terrible word, which we should change to something else. Many students have stomach pains and do not go to school. It will be a cost to society and a tragedy for the individual student who can never be counted in money. There are, as I said, absolute things that can be investigated. But do not wait to take other steps! Seek a broad consensus now or use the ministerial role! Take action now to make the school better!
i-e99340a50fb4f158-132	Madam President, I would like Leadership is important for exercising the teaching profession. I would think it is difficult to find a profession other than the teaching profession where there are more demands on leadership. This is precisely why it is good that the development efforts that the Swedish National Agency for Education is now working with make clear proposals to strengthen the conditions for working with leadership in and outside the classroom. If I were to point to a profession with higher demands on leadership than the teaching profession, I would actually find it really hard to think of anything. It goes without saying to me that the teacher who exercises leadership in the classroom and who performs his duties in order to ensure security and study is able to do so with boldness. As long as you follow laws and regulations, you should have the support of society, the headmaster in the back and the parents with you. That's why I worry about all the signs I see that parents and students don't really see themselves as anything but customers in a school. There is a customer mentality where the teacher is reduced to a person who will deliver the grade that parents and students want. It's a school I don't want to see. I want the school to be a joint educational institution. This requires that there are conditions for security and studyo for all students. I have explained in my speeches both what is going on and what in some cases requires investigations. Everyone who works in the world of school has been able to see the results in recent years when decisions are not properly prepared. I have also reported on a large number of efforts being made here and now. I am proud of these efforts. I am pleased with the commitment that Kristina Axén Olin shows for safety and education at school, and I can assure Kristina Axén Olin that I will continue to work – both here and now and in the long term – to ensure that the Swedish school is safe so that students learn a lot.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-136	Madam President, I would like Robert Stenkvist has asked me whether I am going to take any steps to deal with the problem of officials and teachers acting in partisan politics in the performance of their duties and whether a variant of official responsibility can be a way of overcoming these problems. According to the Constitution, all those who perform public administration functions must respect the objectivity and impartiality of their activities. This principle of objectivity applies to officials at both municipal and independent schools who conduct education according to the School Act. In carrying out his or her work, an official may not be guided by his or her own political opinion or the like. He or she shall act without arbitrariness. The requirements in the curriculum for teaching to be objective and comprehensive can also be seen as an expression of this constitutional principle. All parents should be able to send their children to school with the same confidence, confident that the children will not be unilaterally influenced in favour of one or the other view. In addition, the school has a democratic mission. Everyone who works in school should assert the basic values set out in Chapter 1. Section 4 – 5 of the Education Act and clearly distance yourself from what is contrary to them. Staff in the school system must work to ensure that the ideas of democracy are guiding their work. This means that those who are opposed to the ideas of democracy, for example, should not be allowed to develop their thoughts in their professional practice. As the Ombudsman has pointed out in a decision, the scope of the constitutional freedom of communication and expression for civil servants is not unlimited. Tasks and other obligations arising from the employment contract mean that the employee cannot always invoke his or her freedom of expression if he or she thereby fails to comply with his or her obligations. As stated by the Ombudsman in his decision, a teacher cannot take class time to present his private view of a political issue to the class. It is important that citizens have a high level of confidence in the school system and its employees. In an international comparison, Sweden stands very well when it comes to the absence of irregularities in public activities. But that does not mean that there are no risks. The authorities must always be alert to circumstances that may call their impartiality into question. To conclude, I have great confidence that those working in the school system will carry out their duties in a factual and correct manner. At the same time, it remains an urgent task for the government to support the school in this work with various forms of intervention.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-143	Madam President, I would like Anna Ekström Government! I think the answer was very good. I think it was crystal clear. It's basically not a political answer, it's a real answer, except maybe a sentence. I wish this answer would go out to the country's teachers, because, as I said, it is very good and clear. At the end of his reply, the Government says: The reason I'm putting this interpellation is because my trust is starting to get on the edge. After all, I belong to a political party, SD, and we in the SD have, during several election movements, received recurring reports of teachers who violate some fundamental principle of objectivity. We're in whalehouses. It comes to school young people and tells them that the teacher has told them that SD are terrible fascists, you should not vote for them, but have not said anything about the other parties. It has not happened once; it happens constantly, and it happens in election movement after election movement. Madam President, I would like A few months ago we went to a school in northern Stockholm in an alienation area. When we got there, we were met by a demonstration against SD, and that's fine. We live in a democracy. They have the right to demonstrate and say what they think of us. I have no problem with that at all. When we got into school, we noticed that the atmosphere was not good among the students. It was even the case that some students spit on the floor in front of us when we walked, and that is not an acceptable behavior of any student. We then had a conversation with the headmaster of this school, and he was totally okay. I have nothing to say against the headmaster, Madam President. He behaved correctly and had behaved correctly. We discussed the lawsuit at the school. We noticed that it was very hateful – we sometimes had to take detours when we went between different halls, and we were also escorted from there by the police. When we discussed the matter, the principal happened to be giving himself up. He said that a teacher had actually acted in partisan politics against us, as we noticed. Black in white, there was a teacher who had crossed the line during our school visit and propagated against us. We live in a democracy. You can have whatever opinions you want. Teachers get to get involved in the Left Party in their spare time. As I grew up, I had teachers who were partisan. They were completely neutral during class time. I never heard that they were subjective or spoke ill of their opposition parties. The development has almost slowed down, I think. This is not acceptable. Now we do not have ministerial government in Sweden, so a minister cannot go in and do anything. But this is a problem that exists, and we have to deal with it in some way. Teachers need to know what is actually going on.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-153	Madam President, I would like Robert Stenkvist does not have much to say against the interpellation response that I have given, and that interpellation response is largely based on the regulation that exists in our form of government, in the school law and in the curriculum. I do not see any need to send out an interpellation response to Sweden's schools. The basic law must be well known to those who work in Sweden's schools, as well as the school law and curriculum. I would also like to remind you that the fact that a teacher is to be objective and impartial in the performance of his duties and that the principle of objectivity does not mean that the school does not have a clear mission also to assert a fundamental task of value. In that core mission, respect for human rights lies. It is a clear mission of all teachers to constantly defend and defend fundamental principles of democracy and human rights, both within and outside teaching. As I said, I have great confidence in our principals and our teachers. I am convinced that the Swedish school has good regulation in terms of ensuring objectivity, comprehensiveness, objectivity and impartiality while taking a firm stand for democracy and human rights, in education and beyond.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-157	Madam President, I would like Government of Ekström! Core values mission and democracy, yes. I do not think it is democratic, as Mr Erdo中an has done. He has cleared 30 000 teachers– I think; I do not know the number – and appointed his own, that is, teachers who propagate for him and sympathize with the government. What I want to say is that there is a gulf between the fact that we have impartial, neutral officials and that we do not have them. If we do not, then officials in a future can propagate for any government or party. Tell him we have a conservative government that's been in office for 12 years. I certainly don't want any teachers to propagate for us then. I want them to be neutral and impartial even in this situation. This is a bit of a core of democracy – that teachers do not propagate during class time. It is not like Erdo中an's Turkey, where he appoints his own teachers. This is anti-democratic, and Swedish teachers must be made clear. The Government says that parents with great confidence should be able to send their children to school and that the children should not be adversely affected. There are Swedish democrats whose children have come home crying because the teacher has talked about how stupid their parents are. This is not common, but it has happened. I attended Larsboda School and the second year in Hästhagsskolan in Farsta, and the teachers there could handle this. I didn't run into any biased teachers during my school days. We had intense political discussions in middle and middle school, and the teachers were able to do this. I had great faith in my teachers. They didn't always have it easy with me, I can tell you, but they put up with it. In 2016, an SO teacher, John-John-Ernstsson Ernstsson, wrote an article in Svenska Dagbladet, where he thought that teachers are right to oppose SD in lesson time. We have a problem here, I think. I agree that we should have a foundation of values and that democracy should be put at the forefront. The rules of democracy shall apply. This means that we must be allowed to disagree. I must have an opinion on our immigration policy, and Minister Anna Ekström must, Madam President, have a different opinion. And then we can stand here and debate. But school teachers should not tell you what is right or what is wrong. They will very well tell us what we stand for; it is part of the mission when it comes to social science. But they should not tell students what is right or wrong, but when they grow up and become more mature they should be able to decide for themselves.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-165	Madam President, I would like Robert Stenkvist and I don't always have much in common, but one thing we have in common: We have both attended Hästhagsskolan and there received an excellent education and teaching. The question now raised is certainly not simple. Teachers shall observe objectivity, impartiality and an objectiveness principle. At the same time, teachers should not be neutral. Both in and outside teaching, one should uphold, defend and defend fundamental principles of democracy and human rights. In order to handle a classroom situation, or a situation outside the classroom, where controversial issues arise, great skill is required. In addition, the core task follows a mission to respond to expressions of values and views that are contrary to the school's values. It may be that the democratic mission also involves working for children and students to affirm and respect the fundamental values of the school's core values. However, it may also be that expressions that conflict with these values may be worth addressing, on the one hand, and very difficult and offensive to other students, on the other. I usually think of the school's core values and democracy mission as an important mission, which is all too often distinguished from the knowledge mission. I find this deeply unfortunate. The school's democratic mission is about teaching students about democracy, freedom of speech and respect for human rights. This should be done to promote what is part of the school's core values: democracy and human rights. But it should also be done with respect for the constitutional values, with a democratic way of working, with freedom of expression as a basis and with respect for human rights. I do not imagine that this is an easy part of the work of teachers or principals, but I imagine that it is an important part. I am also very pleased that the Swedish National Agency for Education has produced support material for this particular situation. I also know that this is an issue on which people are working very actively in different schools. Every student should feel safe going to school. Every parent should be able to send their child safely to school. Robert Stenkvist craves for those parents who are a little worried that their children will get counter-cut at school or get a criticism that Robert Stenkvist believes is contrary to the objectivity and impartiality of the teaching role, and it is also important to wriggle in order for students to be able to go to a school that is free from violations. All of this means that teachers have a difficult task. I think we should support the teachers in this task and remember that there is a common thread from the Constitution to the School Act to the curriculum. The common thread is about the objective and impartial exercise of office and about setting up the principle of objectivity, but also about safeguarding the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-172	Madam President, I would like I think the government and I agree on the basic principles. Of course, teachers should stand by and carry out the basic democratic principles, and of course we must have a debate on what the various parties stand for. For example, high school students must be able to cope with this. Some child of a Swedish-Democrat parent can surely be a little offended when the teacher objectively and objectively goes through the party programs of different parties. They simply put up with that and learn — the hard school of life. It's when the teachers step across this line that I react. And it happens; we get reports of it before every election movement. If any student champions undemocratic principles, I think it is perfectly okay for the teacher to break in and defend democratic principles in accordance with our constitution and governance – every man, one voice, and freedom of expression. You get to dislike us as much as you want, just not the teachers do it during class time. Then they get to be left-wingers or anything in their spare time. I think we have a slightly bigger problem than Minister Ekström sees, Madam President.
i-e99340a50fb4f158-175	Madam President, I would like The school's democratic mission is to promote the acceptance and respect of the fundamental values of the school's core values. I am talking about such important things as the inviolability of human life, the freedom and integrity of the individual, the equal value of all people, equality and solidarity between people. In fact, being employed at school is a duty to work in this direction. The mission of democracy also includes the opportunity for children and students to develop the knowledge and abilities needed to be able to act actively in democracy – to take the discussion and debate and to see what is in accordance with this foundation of values and what is not. The values and attitudes of children and students shall not be subject to assessment and rating. However, they are entitled to feedback from school staff on these issues as well. Those working in education have an obligation to react to and actually counteract statements that run counter to the values of the school that we have laid down in the School Act and which are based on the form of government. I will continue to work to ensure that our governance, our school team and our curriculum have a full impact on the activities. And I will continue to do what I can to support the teachers in their difficult and important work of navigating in the classrooms and beyond and to ensure that all students learn a lot about democracy and are allowed to do so in order to respect democracy – with a democratic way of working.
