i-658d12276c5cf663-10	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Government's bill New EU rules on shareholders' rights. Basically, we Moderates are in favour of the proposals in the bill, as they include making the operations of institutional investors and asset managers more transparent. However, we find it unfortunate that the proposal will require double reporting of remuneration to senior executives of listed companies. This single rule will certainly not in itself entail enormous additional costs, but it should be seen in a context. On today's industry's debate page on 26 March this year, representatives of 22 business organisations wrote about the growing regulatory burden. Among other things, reference was made to the OECD Regulatory Policy Outlook, a study that shows that Sweden lags behind in the regulatory improvement work and that no improvements have taken place since the previous survey in 2015. The article also refers to the fact that according to the Swedish Agency for Growth's measurements, the administrative costs of the companies have increased by SEK 6 billion net over five years. In addition, 29 per cent of the surveyed entrepreneurs in an Skop survey feel that compliance with state rules has become more complicated compared to a year ago. This compares with the fact that only 2% believe it has become simpler. The perceived increase in the regulatory burden is not the result of an individual decision, but the consequence of several decisions which together, as a rule, have increased the administrative burden. Among the problems, for example, the requirement for double reporting is usually mentioned. Madam President, I would like Reducing the regulatory burden for Swedish companies is a priority for the Moderates, as well as reducing the risk of errors and unnecessary bureaucratic burdens. This perspective is particularly important in the implementation and application of EU directives in Swedish legislation. It is therefore positive that the government has listened to the criticisms of the advisory bodies regarding the relevant members of staff and remuneration to senior executives, and that it is sufficient to review the criteria every four years and not, as initially proposed, every year. It is unfortunate, however, that one chooses not to take on board the criticism of the requirement for a special report on the remuneration of certain positions within a listed limited liability company. In the bill, the Government therefore proposes that the Board of Directors of a listed limited liability company produce a special report on remuneration to the CEO, the Deputy CEO and the Board members for each financial year. However, several consultation bodies, including the Swedish Corporate Governance College, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Swedish Bar Association, reject the proposal and believe that it is sufficient that the relevant information is reported in the annual report. Some consultation bodies also point to a reduction in the risk of errors and misinterpretations. I do not think large stock exchange companies have any major problems with reporting. On the other hand, any additional administrative burden risks becoming a problem for smaller and fast growing companies listed as part of their expansion strategy. It is often companies that operate in a knowledge-intensive and innovative environment where competition is sharp when it comes to whether the company should be established and listed in Sweden or elsewhere in the world. Precisely this type of label, I think we all want more of it here. I do not think, as I said, that any company will opt out of Sweden because of how these rules are designed, but even more constant small administrative charges risk eventually creating the tuvan that overturns the lasset. Therefore, unlike the government, we Moderates, together with the consultation bodies, consider that the existing EU amending directive allows for the remuneration report to be part of the annual report. On the contrary, a special report, as the consultation bodies point out, risks leading to an increased bureaucratic burden while increasing the risk of error. With this in mind, I support reservation 1.
i-658d12276c5cf663-21	Madam President, I would like I fully agree with what David Josefsson has just said. Chinese water torture simply drips water into the victim's head – drops that are constantly recurring and at first and separately may not be perceived as unpleasant but that together, when you can't resist them, eventually drives the victim crazy. Unfortunately, there are many similarities between Chinese water torture and how the government treats companies in Sweden. There are new reports and new charges, like drops in Chinese water torture. They are constantly recurring. This is not just about a few individual reports. The bureaucracy of companies is constantly being built up with new requirements, new rules to relate to, new certifications, new accounts, new environmental requirements, new industry-specific driving licences and all kinds of statistical collection. All these are parts that individually may seem good and quite manageable, but just as with the drops in Chinese water torture, it is not every part of it that is a problem for itself, but it is the constant repetition of new and recurring charges. Today, then, another drop is to be added to the torture, this time in the form of a new report in which companies are to present their board compensations. As a single measure, it doesn't sound so bad. In principle, all companies already present their remunerations in their annual reports, so they just need to address this paragraph specifically and create their own report of it – just a little bit more. No, this would not have been a problem if it had been the only burden on companies, but that is not the reality. The question you might ask yourself is, of course, why the government thinks that the remuneration to the board is so important that they must have their own report and cannot be included as part of the usual annual report. For shareholders, there are many other things that have a much greater impact on the company than the level of the Board's remuneration. The future prospects of a company are primarily determined by other factors, such as the underlying competence of the company, future planned technology development and direct or indirect environmental impact. The list of things that are important for shareholders to know can be done indefinitely, and thus those who love bureaucracy, such as the European Parliament, can also impose numerous reports on companies. But it's not good for anyone. It is not good for companies to have to spend time and resources on unnecessary bureaucracy, and it is not good for shareholders to spend time and resources on unnecessary bureaucracy. These are resources that could have been used to develop new technologies or improve the skills of the company in some other way. Madam President, I would like Sweden is about to red tape itself to death, and nobody benefits from it, at least not in Sweden. If we make unnecessary demands on our companies, they will either give up and shut down or simply move away from here to escape these demands. That is why the socialist urge to get involved and milk entrepreneurs in as many ways as possible is as damaging to our entire economy and our entire prosperity. Instead, we should make things easier for our companies and give them opportunities, not limitations. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support the same reservation as the previous speaker, namely reservation 1.
i-658d12276c5cf663-31	Madam President, I would like We shall again take decisions that mean that we implement an EU directive in Swedish legislation. In this case, it is a question of shareholders' rights. A new law will be passed, the one on voting advisors, and no less than seven others will be amended to regulate the requirements for the accounting of benefits of senior executives in companies. One might object and think that there should be no adjustment and that the proposals are too far-reaching. It should be borne in mind, however, that the overall objective is a more open Europe where you can get an education, work, settle, move freely, trade in goods and services, transport things, make investments and establish businesses. Madam President, I would like There is much more that we expect the EU to do, such as establishing common and high standards for reducing climate emissions, using less toxins in industry and agriculture, strengthening animal welfare and reducing the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry but also in health care. To, as the Center Party wants, research new drugs that are free of antibiotics is a major joint project in which European and not least Swedish pharmaceutical companies have a major task. Technological development and research of this kind are not just a future industry: it needs to be done now! Investors' – shareholders' – capital is needed to finance such a project. It is the joint efforts that make a difference, and we must be aware that the conditions vary between the Member States. Europe should be a leader, and then we must work together. Breaking laws should not mean a competitive advantage for one Member State, because then the whole idea of cooperation breaks down. Companies, large and small, should be able to compete on equal terms. In fact, common and harmonised requirements reduce the need for individual countries to lead the way. We must also take a strong stance against crime and organised crime, whether it be stealing, trafficking in human beings or financial crime. There is a need for police cooperation, cooperation between the authorities and, in addition to that, legislation which is equivalent and which promotes transparency also within and between large companies. This is what the directive aims to achieve in relation to the shareholders of companies. Madam President, I would like EU membership gives Sweden great added value. It gives Swedish companies access to the world's largest and richest market, and together in the EU we are strong enough to negotiate trade agreements with the US and China. Alone is not strong. That is why we implement directives with the result that older laws are updated and that some new laws need to be passed. Unlike the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, the Center Party is not against any of the legislative changes proposed here. We share the government's view that it is reasonable for directors' remuneration to be reported openly to shareholders. It is reasonable that those who have invested part of their wealth, or renounced income for this purpose, in a pension fund or company see that it is managed properly and that good business ethics is combined with profitability and a long-term perspective. Investors should be able to access such information and make their financial decisions accordingly. I note that those who are in favour of rejecting the committee's proposal under paragraph 1 do not object to the presentation of the information. They think it should exist but that it should instead be presented as notes in the annual report. Madam President, I would like I find it difficult to see the decisive difference between one way and the other. The Center Party believes that the future will tell us what is right. We want, as David Josefsson said, to reduce the regulatory burden on companies and work daily on these kinds of regulatory changes. We, too, are critical of the over-implementment and believe that for every new rule imposed on companies, two must be removed. Regulatory burdens are at risk of impairing the competitiveness of Swedish companies in the internal market. In addition, the competitiveness of the EU as a whole will be weakened if the overall regulatory burden becomes more important than the ambition to jointly strengthen Europe. The Center Party, as the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats have made in their reservation, has aimed at the rule that the remuneration of senior executives – CEOs, deputy CEOs and board members – should be reported in a report. Whether it is enough to do so with the help of notes in the annual report cannot be considered. We leave that to the government to judge. On the other hand, we are keen to monitor developments. Once the rules have entered into force in the Member States, it will become apparent how they are applied. It is reasonable that we then choose the path. Madam President, I would like The big question should really be whether it is reasonable for the compensations to be accounted for at all. As I have said before, it is primarily a matter of information for shareholders, and then perhaps the form of accounting is not the most important issue. In our reservation, we believe that it should not be necessary to draw up a separate report each financial year. There are also shortcomings in the government's analysis of which companies are covered and how they are affected by the requirements. We want the government to return to the Riksdag by 1 January 2021, i.e. in one and a half years' time, with a full impact assessment of what this means for companies and how the legislation decided in Sweden is applied compared to how it is done in other Member States. That is why, Madam President, I support the Centre Party's reservation No 3.
i-658d12276c5cf663-47	Madam President, I would like Since I am from Skåne and also from a peasant family, I have what one can almost describe as an unpicked goose with the Center Party. For many years, the Center Party has been involved in deteriorating for us in the Scanian or Swedish countryside, sometimes directly through the decisions they have been involved in pushing through and sometimes indirectly through the decisions they have allowed others to weaken Sweden with. According to SLU, the number of rules that a farmer has to relate to more than doubled between 1996 and 2016. This applies to almost all farmers, regardless of their orientation. In particular, I can point out that during those years, the Center Party has been a member of or a member of the government. So they have been involved in the deterioration, bureaucratically. My own party has been in government for none of these years or has had the opportunity to influence this. Today we see once again how the Center Party stands on the side of bureaucracy against Swedish companies. Ola Johansson talked about harmonised requirements. But must the harmonised requirements always lead to more red tape for companies? The 73-point programme mentions the entrepreneurship they do not less than 24 times, but once it comes to practical policy, we see once again how the Center stands on the side of bureaucracy and wants to increase bureaucracy for Swedish companies.
i-658d12276c5cf663-52	Madam President, I would like If Mikael Eskilandersson obtains sympathy in this debate by referring to his relationship with agriculture, I can say that I am also a farmer's son, born in Halland. If it is to be used as an argument, whether you are born of a peasant family, I think it is a rather low rate. It touches me deeply in the heart. My parents ran a farm for many years and were quite successful in collaboration in the association movement but also in politics and within LRF and Arla. It is precisely the work in Europe to develop agriculture together with colleagues in Europe during the time that the EU built up its activities, I believe, that marked the way my parents were farmers. Therefore, it takes me particularly deep that Mikael Eskilandersson uses agriculture and individual farmers in this way to criticise a bill that the Center Party is also critical of. The only difference between Mikael Eskilandersson and me is possibly that I think we can allow this legislation to enter into force and evaluate the latter. We are critical on exactly the same points. What provokes Mikael Eskilandersson most is probably that in my speech I took on board the strengths and advantages of EU membership when it comes to improving animal welfare, reducing the use of antibiotics and making European agriculture more competitive vis-à-vis, for example, Chinese or American agriculture. It is a question of ensuring that good animal husbandry and the antibiotic-free meat are given the benefits they deserve.
i-658d12276c5cf663-56	Madam President, I would like Ola Johansson says that the Center Party is critical in exactly the same way as the Swedish Democrats against the new rules. But the truth is, the only thing that the Center Party is lifting is that they want an impact assessment. That impact assessment I can help Ola Johansson to do, because it is not very difficult to guess what more bureaucracy leads to. More bureaucracy leads to increased costs for businesses and to more companies considering whether it is not better to move to another country. I mentioned the fact that I am of a peasant family to show the problem that the Center Party, together with its allies in different constellations, has created for farmers in particular. As I said, you have twice as many rules to deal with, in principle, regardless of the industry in which you are in. It is not easy to be a farmer with all the bureaucratic rules that are constantly being imposed on them. The Center Party tends to always talk about how good it will be for companies. Also in the 73-point programme, which has been agreed with the government, entrepreneurship has been raised on a number of points. They like to claim that they go out and defend companies. In practice, we stand here and let regulations change, which is exactly the opposite, which is, therefore, detrimental to businesses and is forcing us into even more red tape. Does Ola Johansson think that they have succeeded well, given that, so far, during this term of office, only new rules have been introduced?
i-658d12276c5cf663-60	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Mikael Eskilandersson is taking the debate on shareholders' rights to information about senior executives' remuneration for revenue to discuss the January agreement. The January agreement is something which, based on a rather complicated parliamentary situation, nevertheless leads Sweden a long way forward. In the agreement, we have agreements whereby we implement regulatory simplifications for companies, lower taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship, strengthen rural areas and create a level playing field throughout the country for housing and green industries, invest and invest in new businesses. It is also characteristic of this debate that the Swedish Democrats, which are essentially an EU-critical party, are taking this small change as revenue to have a big discussion about putting rural areas against urban areas. I find that unreasonable. If there is anything that has benefited Swedish agriculture, it is precisely EU membership and access to the agricultural subsidies that exist within the EU and also the way that Europe together ensures to strengthen, improve and clarify the conditions for running agricultural enterprises throughout Sweden.
i-658d12276c5cf663-63	Madam President, I would like This case is about an EU directive to be implemented in Swedish law, and it is basically about whether shareholders should be able to see in a simple and understandable way what the leading representatives have for remuneration. The government's view is that this should be the case. It is basically a legal interpretation, and the government is therefore interpreting that the EU is calling for this report to be drawn up. This concerns listed companies, i.e. companies that often have millions or billions of turnovers, and a number of institutional investors are affected by this. On the other hand, the discussion that has taken place in this House has concerned virtually the entire business world in Sweden. I can't quite see that it has anything to do with this. There will be a debate on completely different things, which is sad. I think it is a good thing that shareholders can take a special position on the remuneration of those who hold the senior positions, because we know what the link between performance and remuneration, bonuses and the like has meant historically. This is not an entirely risk-free activity carried out for society as a whole. Transparency is therefore good for people like me, for example, who are not particularly versed in stock knowledge but still own a number of shares, to be able to easily go in and see what the remunerations look like for these people. It is not easy for ordinary people to read and take on an annual report, but here you can see in a transparent and good way how the company performs and what the remuneration for leading representatives looked like. I think that perspective is good. In essence, as I have said, the government makes the interpretation that the EU is demanding this and that it is therefore legally necessary. Then we have to do it whether we think it's right or not. I am not a lawyer and therefore cannot say that this is right or wrong, but I trust that the government has the competence to interpret an EU directive and make that assessment. Then it is just as the Center Party is lifting here, namely that this must be followed up. The task of politics, whatever it is, is to follow up the decisions we make and have made so that we can make good decisions. Follow-up is included as well as in the whole. However, I do not know whether to set a date on it. Above all, I do not think it would be wise to do so as soon as the Center Party advocates, because it would happen quite quickly – 2021 if I remember correctly. It feels as if this has not been effective then, but you probably have to wait a few years. However, the report states in the committee's view that we should follow up on this. I support the committee's proposal.
i-658d12276c5cf663-71	Madam President, I would like Ola Möller points out in her speech that these are tasks that would not be easy to see otherwise. In the past, the government has introduced a diversity report, in which companies are forced to identify and report gender and country of birth on their employees. Now it is a special compensation report that is to be enforced, where salaries and allowances are to be reported separately. It is therefore not enough to have the data in the annual report, which has been the normal one in the past, but in particular to produce a report on this subject, to be specifically discussed and decided upon at the annual meeting. Then I wonder: what is the next report that companies are going to have to make? Is that an environmental report? Is this a special tech report? Or is it perhaps a report of sick leave? How to work with this in a company can of course also be very difficult to read from an annual report. You can actually add as many reports as you like. And each report creates more bureaucracy and increases administration and costs, while at the same time providing very little for those who are a little familiar with companies. In fact, they are able to read most of the annual accounts. Basically, however, it must be up to companies how transparent they want to be and how much they want to show off. Then it is clear that as an owner you always have the opportunity to go to the annual meeting and ask questions, if it is that you wonder about something. You can often also call the company and find out things. I wonder if Ola Möller can promise Sweden's companies that there will be no more reports to be added to the annual meeting.
i-658d12276c5cf663-77	Madam President, I would like Of course I can't promise you that. Firstly, Mikael Eskilandersson gives a description of shareholders who are not quite correct. It's not that all shareholders can go to a meeting. You don't have the financial opportunities. It's not that people who work and work can say that you take time off and go up to Sveavägen or somewhere else on Östermalm and attend a corporate meeting on a Tuesday morning. Nor is it so that everyone has a great opportunity to assimilate an annual report, and that is why I think this particular part is very good. It also fills a systemically important function somewhere. The transparency of compensation for those who make the biggest and most difficult decisions is very important. If there is anything we learned from the 2008 financial crisis, it is that the link between bonus systems and risk-taking is very strong. If you have bonuses that are built on the incentive to put companies and the entire social system at risk, as some bank managers in the United States did, it can be very good with a stronger transparency in this. Since the data are mainly already in the annual report, it is really a matter of compiling and adding some of the data to the report. A specific decision will then be made, and it will also be possible to follow up on previous years. I think this is basically a good thing. But, of course, it is what the Center Party has lifted up, that we have to look at this. Should our large listed companies because of this burden under costs and bureaucracy, it is clear that we will remove it. However, both Mikael Eskilandersson and I know that this is not the case. Here you make a chicken out of a feather and bring the discussion into a lot of other things than what this is all about. I think this report is wise.
i-658d12276c5cf663-83	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, this particular report is not so much a burden. It is not the other reports that have arrived either, and it is not every thing separately. What is at issue here is constantly recurring and more bureaucracy. Each thing individually can be experienced as very small and have a very small impact. It's just another piece of paper to be written and just one more item to be taken at the annual meeting. But when you add it up, it gets pretty much. It should also be borne in mind that we may not be competing mainly with companies that exist in the rest of Europe, but we are competing with the whole world. Although we can imagine that similar requirements exist in the EU, we do not have the same requirements for companies in the USA, China, Japan and other countries. Personally, I think this is more because of an ability to dislike people who make a lot of money. People who make a lot of money should be ashamed, unlike people who win money on Lotto; then you have to celebrate. But you don't get to be good at your job and make a lot of money from it. If it is so important to pay people who run companies, should it not be even more important to find out about the government's remuneration and compensation to us Members? Why do we not have a special report published each year on what allowances and allowances we Members have? We should have such a special report in the case of ministers, too, because it is even more important to see in full and all the way what those who currently run Sweden, and therefore actually control all these companies, have for income. However, I have never heard such a proposal from the Social Democrats. After all, the data are now available, but this also applies to companies.
i-658d12276c5cf663-90	Madam President, I would like I guess that's a great idea. Go for it, Mikael Eskilandersson! Exercise about it! Perhaps it can have the support of the House. I have no problem in principle with a special report on what we earn. Now that report is often called Aftonbladet. They usually lay out both what you earn and what you do and often where you live – or maybe it was Expressen. You're trying to make our listed companies the victims of a terrible government that dislikes rich people. Come on! We're talking about Ericsson, and we're talking about H&M. These companies are throwing together such a report quite quickly. The shareholders can then take a position on them. All the economic theory of financial crises from the last ten years has pointed to the link between the incentive structure of the management and the risks taken and how to run the companies. That's what this is about, not all the other things you're talking about. I think it might be wise to get all that up on the table. Then ordinary people can take a stand on it and see it. It also makes it easier for the media and everyone else interested to review it. I think it's wise. It is also a matter of security for the whole social system. If these companies fail, sometimes even deliberately and fraudulently do things that are not very healthy, as has been done in the United States, for example, it risks leading to costs for people who do not earn the large sums. The consequences are increased unemployment, and people's lives are broken. That is why transparency is needed on these issues. Don't make our listed companies the victims here. It's not that hard for them to get the reports together.
i-658d12276c5cf663-96	Madam President, I would like I think me and Ola Möller are basically in agreement. We think it is a good proposal in large parts. This gives shareholders increased transparency, and it increases transparency on the financial market. But then you get back to the rules. That's what I find hard to understand. Me and Ola Möller had a discussion about corporate law a few weeks ago. Then we also noted that we were in agreement. I believe that all political parties want to reduce the regulatory burden for Swedish companies. This is a little detail. Nevertheless, there is an opportunity here, I believe, to make the regulatory framework more useful. Ola Möller says he's not a lawyer. I'm not a lawyer either. For the record I can say that I also come from a peasant family. But that's not really the point. With regard to the over-implementing of EU rules, there are three consultative bodies, two of which are lawyers at least, which clearly state that this is an over-implementing of the EU directive. It is partly the Swedish Bar Association, partly the Swedish Corporate Governance College and partly the lawyers at the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. They believe that it is possible to meet the requirements of the Directive by reporting it already in the annual report. Therefore, my question is: why is it so important to get the individual report and this double report when you can actually implement it by including it in the notes in the annual report? That is where I do not really understand how the government has reasoned.
i-658d12276c5cf663-102	Madam President, I would like Thank you, David Josefsson, for an objective and good question relating to the matter! I can also report to the record that I grew up in Hjärup in Staffanstorp municipality. It's in a big field. Much closer to a background in agriculture than I can get. However, I have a very good relationship with LRF at home in Helsingborg. They describe that rules can also be a support. I believe that this can be a support for start-ups, among others, which David Josefsson himself highlighted, which are noted early on. I think it can be seen that this would be a good way to review its remuneration structure because it has to be presented to shareholders and taken responsibility for it. When it comes to the consultation bodies, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has never thought that the implementation of EU directives that affect their activities is something positive – you are welcome to show if this is the case. You can think about that. It's a legal judgment. And the lawyers at the Government Office make a different assessment than two of the referrals that you mention. I completely forgot your question because I speak far too much. You'll have to come back with it.
i-658d12276c5cf663-107	Madam President, I would like The question was why double reporting is necessary where it is already included in the annual accounts. Ola Johansson spoke earlier about Ericsson. As I said in my speech, I do not think it will be the big stock exchange companies that will have problems with this. They will solve it without much trouble. It is the small companies that will be affected. I come from Gothenburg. There we have many small listed companies where it doesn't really work very many people. But it is capital-intensive activity. For them, the choice is between establishing yourself in Sweden or Asia, in the USA or elsewhere in Europe. It is clear that with more rules the threshold for establishment in Sweden is constantly raised. I think it's a bit of the tyranny of the small ladders. No one will opt out of Sweden just because you have to double report it both in the annual report, as you have to, and in the individual report. But every little charge eventually creates that tuvan that steals the lasset. Of course you can tell that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has a special interest and that they want to make the rules as simple as possible. But it can also be said that if someone should benefit from this, it is the Swedish Bar Association. More rules and more reports mean more invoiced hours. Nevertheless, I think that there is a great deal of clarity from the consultation bodies that this is an over-implementment. My question is: what is the added value of having double reporting when one could stay within the directive by simply including it in the annual report? This is not the crucial issue. But we are talking about the tyranny of the small ladders. Small extra bureaucratic charges will eventually be the tuvan that spoils the lasset.
i-658d12276c5cf663-113	Madam President, I would like It is the interpretation of what the EU thinks on this issue that determines. There are obviously different interpretations. The Center Party said: Let us evaluate this in a while, to see what is the right interpretation. Have other countries done differently? If it turns out to be a problem, let's see if we can remove it. I believe that both this and some of the other reports should be seen as a potential competitive advantage. What if European and Swedish companies can have higher tailings, show greater transparency and that they are more sustainable, if they can go out to consumers and other companies and point black to white that they are better than the American and Chinese companies. Democracy, transparency and sustainability – those words are the future. That's where we want to be. If we can say that that is what we want to succeed in and that the companies have the reports that show it, perhaps the question to the American and Chinese companies, especially the Chinese, is: Where is your transparency? Where is your willingness to compete in this regard? Then consumers can make informed and wise choices and buy European products, because they trust those companies. I do not believe that all rules automatically represent a disadvantage. Rules can also steer in a desirable direction, which supports companies. Environmental rules are clear. The climate issue is a clear issue where we work to ensure that Swedish companies are at the forefront. Why can we not be at the forefront in terms of economic sustainability and transparency? This legislation is coming now. If you look at it a little positively and instead try to use it that way, combined with a good follow-up from this House, I think it can be good. As I said, David Josefsson and I fully agree that we absolutely should not have rules that do no good. But in this context, it is too early to say that this is something that we should not have.
i-658d12276c5cf663-121	Madam President, I would like It should not be necessary to say that investigative journalism is a prerequisite for a living democracy. Because it is. Nor should it be necessary in 2019 to defend our freedom of print and expression. But it's necessary. A series of studies show that many journalists and media editorials are exposed to threats, harassment and violence due to their work and reporting. The terrible terrorist attack on the newspaper Charlie Hebdo in Paris in 2015 is, thankfully, an exception in our neighbourhood. At the same time, it is proof of how far we are from being able to establish that freedom of expression and printing is secure. And even among the EU Member States, there are examples today of very serious restrictions on these rights. Any attempt at restriction is a threat to a free and living democracy and to our whole way of life. Madam President, I would like In the Journalists' Security Survey, conducted by the University of Gothenburg in 2017, on behalf of the Government, 58 per cent of the members of the Journalists' Association stated that they have at some time been subjected to harassment, threats or violence in connection with their professional activities. The problems are real and, in other words, they are very much present in our country as well. That is why I am very pleased that the Constitutional Committee has been able to agree on a report which, among other things, is in line with the Moderates in these areas. Some proposals relate to concrete security work, such as better police support for smaller editorial teams and improved security for journalists when they are in court and guarding trials. Another proposal is more stringent penalties for threats to journalists and media editorials. All of this is needed – and much more. Madam President, I would like The report also contains a reservation from the Moderates and Christian Democrats on hybrid warfare in the form of propaganda. I would like to take this opportunity to support this reservation, namely reservation 2. Modern warfare takes place not only on the battlefield but also through, for example, what we call propaganda warfare. The defence committee, which is just finished, has discussed both impact campaigns and information warfare. One example is that a not insignificant part of Russian propaganda against Russian speakers in the Baltic states is television broadcasting. The Rossija Rossija satellite programme service can be received in the Baltic countries through a satellite link in the Kaknäs tower here in Stockholm. The program service is thus under Swedish jurisdiction. According to our Freedom of Expression Act, freedom of establishment for television broadcasts prevails. However, there is scope in the current legislation to communicate the provision by ordinary law and to intervene against the continued transmission of a range that focuses on violence or pornographic images. Such provisions are contained in the Broadcasting Act. There is therefore room for manoeuvre to regulate the content of cable and satellite broadcasting, for example in the case of violence. But today we cannot take action against propaganda broadcasts as part of hybrid warfare against Sweden, the Baltic States or any other country. Madam President, I would like There are very good reasons to be very moderate in regulating the content of television broadcasts and allowing authorities to intervene against broadcasts as a result of their content. Free debate and freedom of opinion are fundamental elements of our democracy. At the same time, it may be wise, we Moderates think, to consider whether it is reasonable that our liberal rules can be exploited by foreign power to carry out propaganda through television broadcasts. In our opinion, an investigation should look at whether the basic law on freedom of expression should provide for the possibility of introducing, by ordinary law, provisions to intervene against the continuation of the broadcasting of a range of propaganda aimed mainly at media consumers in another country of the European Union and forming part of hybrid warfare.
i-658d12276c5cf663-132	Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all of our reservations, but for time to come, I only support reservations 5 and 11. Given that we are living in the information age, this speech could start by talking about how well we have it and how the internet, together with freedom of expression, has made us live in the best of freedom of expression law worlds. Unfortunately, however, this is not entirely true. The European Union is working so slowly to restrict the freedom of expression of the citizens of the Member States. Under copyright law, people seek to limit the ability of individuals to communicate with each other. The large social media platforms, which in practice have a monopoly position on the market, gradually nag the freedom of expression at the edges by sometimes censoring their users and giving in to left-wing activists' screams about excluding, shutting down or removing users who do not have politically correct and beautiful posts. Self-appointed civil society officers join forces looking for quotes and claims to report. Prohibitors are eagerly impelled by the slowly dying newspaper business. This is an industry that lives on technology from the late Middle Ages and sometimes seems to adopt a late Middle Ages view of how to deal with deviants. However, the shame log of the square has been replaced by the running note. The Inquisitor has been replaced by the responsible publisher. This criticism does not apply to all printed matter and to all journalists. But the printed press, especially the one that is nationwide, has many years of lost confidence to catch up. The task of the press is to review power, not to protect it. As I said, not all publishers are now living equivalents to the Spanish Inquisition. There are many journalists who do good work with both scrutiny and monitoring different areas of society. This applies, in particular, to newspapers that have their main activities in rural and sparsely populated areas. Madam President, I would like Media should, as far as possible, be free from State aid and thus achieve a higher degree of independence. As I now point out, it becomes problematic when those who are going to review power are dependent on state support. The operating aid for newspapers should therefore be phased out for a period of five years. However, in view of the fact that the whole of Sweden will live and that local media are performing important work, the distribution support should remain, as distribution is often one of the biggest costs for local newspapers. The Government should prepare an amendment to operating aid in accordance with our proposal and return to Parliament for approval. Madam President, I would like Now over to another area that is somewhat affected by the same inconvenience as the press, namely the National Audit Board for Radio and Television. There is a dissonance between what the public perceives as the task of the Audit Board, namely to examine, for example, the facts of programmes that have been broadcast, and the Audit Board's own interpretation of its mission. The Board of Auditors believes that it is not its task to check the facts on its own. At the same time, broadcasters often use the work of the Audit Board as an argument for living up to their task of objectivity. We believe that it is important that the reporting of public service broadcasters is factual and accurate and that the data is verified in the cases notified to the Audit Board. There may, of course, be errors in news media, for example, but in cases where there are doubts as to whether proper information has been communicated, this obviously needs to be followed up. Repeated mistakes that are not corrected damage confidence in public service. We propose that, in the case of news and fact transmission by public service broadcasters, there should be a public body that consistently checks the facts and that the information is correct where a notification is made. This could be done by bringing together, for this purpose, a Scientific Council to check the merits of notified programmes or reports. The investigation could then be published publicly and sent to the notifier.
i-658d12276c5cf663-146	Madam President, I would like Free and independent media are one of the cornerstones of democracy. As little as we can take the sum of democracy and human rights for granted, we can take its various elements for granted. The free word needs to be constantly promoted, anchored and defended, just as democracy as a whole. Unfortunately, we see that freedom of the press is being called into question and challenged – in the USA and in Europe, in Orbán's Hungary and here in Sweden. The Nordic countries may top the freedom of the press index, but Sweden is the country in the Nordic countries that stands out negatively with many journalists exposed to online harassment. Unfortunately, there are many reports about how journalists and free speech are hated, threatened and harassed. Only in the last three years have there been reports from the University of Gothenburg, as the previous speaker mentioned, from the trade association Publishers, from the Swedish Civil Protection Agency and from Reporters Without Borders, who talk about how hatred, threats and harassment against journalists and media companies continue. Journalists are contacted at home and at work, and they are exposed to hate and threats in internet forums. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. Democratic society must therefore fight back with all the means and tools of democratic society. Madam President, I would like The free word is what separates democracies from dictatorships and authoritarian regimes. Freedom of thought, freedom of speech and freedom of opinion are all intimately linked to democracy. Therefore, having comprehensive and independent media throughout the country is ultimately a democracy issue. The trend towards reduced media pluralism and the spread of white spots with increased media shadow, where people and parts of the country lack or have weak journalistic coverage, is a challenge to take seriously. The new media support, aimed at strengthening local journalism and ensuring public access to independent news media throughout the country, can therefore play a major role. Unfortunately, the multiparty agreement last spring did not recognise that operating aid, which was also increased, also included aid for so-called low-frequency newspapers, i.e. newspapers that produce one or a couple of issues per week. We therefore believe that the Center Party should review the new media support and parts of the pre-support system. For us, it is important that the conditions for supporting newspapers are equivalent regardless of the frequency of publication. Today, many low-frequency newspapers make a valuable contribution to ensuring public access to comprehensive and qualitative news media, with room for deepening, throughout the country. It is important that these have the potential to operate in the future as well. It is therefore very satisfying that the issues of strengthening both the conditions for reviewing journalism and a diversity of media perspectives across the country as well as the independence of public services are included in the agreement that the government has reached with the Center Party and Liberals in the January Agreement. I also welcome the part of the agreement that will strengthen media support. Madam President, I would like I would therefore like to ask for the approval of reservation 9 in the report.
i-658d12276c5cf663-157	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 4 in paragraph 7. I would also like to say that, with regard to this report, the KU29 on freedom of expression, freedom of expression and mass media issues, we are in a great deal of agreement. For example, on every point I agree with what my predecessor in the speaker's chair, Linda Ylivainio from the Center, said. I would just like to emphasise the importance of the same conditions for low-frequency newspapers. Of the reservations signed by the Christian Democrats here, I would like to raise one, which we have with the Moderates. It's about the Audit Board for Radio and Television. We believe that the Board's activities must always be characterised by transparency and clarity. This means, among other things, that higher demands must be made that the decisions made by the Audit Board should always be justified. We believe that the rejection decisions are often flawed today. There are strong reasons why the Audit Board should have a clearer investigation responsibility than it has today. This would create better conditions for decisions based on correct facts and relevant circumstances compared to a system based on the notifying party's tasks setting the framework for the review of the Board of Review. The requirement for a conviction to be made public should be clarified so that publication is always as clear as the faulty reporting. In our opinion, the Audit Board should also be given more sanctions. Against this background, the Board's mandate should be developed in order to ensure that public services meet the requirements of objectivity and impartiality. We are so dependent on public service functioning well. I would also like to mention something about freedom of communication in preliminary investigations. The constitutional freedom of communication means a right for everyone to provide normally classified information for publication in the media. In connection with a number of high-profile criminal cases over the years, leaks from preliminary investigations have become apparent. The same has happened during police interventions. In the opinion of the Christian Democrats, it is not reasonable for individual police officers to be able to disclose information that could harm an ongoing investigation and thus make the police's work more difficult. Ultimately, this goes beyond the rule of law in our country. Legal certainty is threatened by this abuse of freedom of communication. We believe that the government should review the protection of informants in preliminary investigations and police interventions precisely to ensure that the police do not leak for their own benefit in preliminary investigations and in police interventions.
i-658d12276c5cf663-168	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the committee's report to be approved and for the motion to be rejected. I call for the motion to be rejected on the grounds that the government is, in many respects, already reviewing many of the motions that have been raised and taking action on them. Madam President, I would like The word is free, and we can thank our more than 250-year-old press and freedom of expression regulation for that. It was created in 1766 and means that every citizen has the right to express his or her thoughts and opinions in printed form, to publish public documents and to communicate information and intelligence on any subject. You therefore have the right to enter every municipal building and request official documents. You may also communicate information to the media about, for example, occupational misconduct in a workplace. You have the right to print, think and say whatever you want. However, the Freedom of the Press Regulation also protects us against slander and violations. You may be guilty of crimes under the Freedom of the Press Act or the Criminal Code if, for example, you write racist posts, publish data that may harm national security or publish images with elements of sexual violence. This is very important: my right to write what I want does not mean that I can restrict other rights. Madam President, I would like Never before have we been able to express what the heart is full of and get public dissemination as quickly as we can today, much thanks to technological development and social media. It is a fantastic development in many ways, but it is not just a fantastic development. It also contains backsides. Hate, threats, lies, conspiracy theories and propaganda spread rapidly in the information flows. There is a realization that manipulated messages are affecting our society today, right now, perhaps more than ever before. In addition, add that the amount of manipulated messages is expected to increase drastically. It is hardly the happy messages that are being manipulated, but it is propaganda with the intention of creating fear that fear in turn will make you choose a certain type of policy. This is done for defence policy and tactical purposes, as the Swedish Defence Committee has pointed out in its recent reports. It's also called hybrid warfare. This not only damages democracy; it damages national security. A divided society is easier to attack. Madam President, I would like It affects democracy in particular when hatred is directed at journalists, judges, politicians, artists, bluelight personnel and all other professional groups that are to work to defend and protect democracy. Some of the motions in the report point to this very point and focus on the need to strengthen the protection of journalists and media editorials. According to studies at the University of Gothenburg, about six out of ten journalists have at some time been subjected to threats, harassment and violence in their professional role, with the consequence that the degree of self-censorship is increasing and journalists stop writing about topics that are sensitive. This threatens freedom of expression and opinion. This is not something that the government takes lightly – on the contrary – which is reflected in, among other things, the government's action plan for the defence of the free word, which strengthens the work to prevent and manage threats and hatreds against journalists, elected representatives and artists. The Action Plan includes a number of tasks, including strengthening the Council's responsibility for support and coordination. The University of Gothenburg has also been commissioned by the Government to further develop the mapping of threats and hatred against journalists, and Linnaeus University has been commissioned to develop the skills of journalists in meeting threats and hatred. Furthermore, as previously mentioned in the pulpit, all police regions in 2018 have received targeted funding to work with confidence-building measures aimed at media houses. Many initiatives are under way, but it is not certain that that is enough, but we must closely monitor developments and possibly take further initiatives as to what they are suffering. Madam President, I would like Today there are too many white spots in most of Sweden's municipalities when it comes to media coverage. It is also a risk that the Swedish Civil Protection Agency's reports point to as a threat to society. Journalism must be there for all people across Sweden to communicate news, monitor the local community, review power and perform in-depth analyses. Unless journalists and responsible publishers fill these white spots, alternative media will. But we need more journalists, not less. Madam President, I would like We in this House are some of thousands of elected politicians in Sweden, and I am one of 349 MPs in the Swedish Parliament. All public power in Sweden is based on the people, and the Riksdag is the people's main representative, says the introductory paragraphs of the government form. To do what we are passionate about, to try through politics to improve and develop society, is a favor. But it's also tough. According to the Crime Prevention Council, one in five politicians is subjected to crimes or similar incidents because of their trust position. The most common is threats or attacks in social media. As a result, one in ten politicians has chosen to avoid getting involved or speaking on a specific issue. Many of our party political colleagues, regardless of party, have shared terrible threats, harassment and other personal attacks. We see it almost daily on social media. As a public person, I must be prepared for people to react and become angry; it is part of the trust mandate. But being subjected to illegal acts, such as threats and harassment, is definitely not included. I think most parties can testify to how difficult it is to get people to stand up for different positions of trust. It is a growing problem, as the foundation of our democratic system is elected people who are prepared to take responsibility and shoulder various tasks. Madam President, I would like My own experiences of this include both rape threats and ruling techniques and being called various epithets. I once commented on the frightening comments on a Facebook page with a right-wing accent, whereupon a man in his 70s wrote the following to me: I'm grateful I don't have grandchildren who are girls. I think you should be, too, if you have or get some. But maybe that's how you want it. Maybe our country should be run by kids without life experience. And on the facebook page there are people who have been around much longer than you. And have much more life experience than you have. And if you keep doing that, you'll never get up to that age so you can experience it. I'm sure the sharia laws will make sure of that. Feel free to be afraid of the dark, it needs people like you to be before you understand anything. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to say that there are many who exploit freedom of expression and, in the long term, undermine it. Madam President, I would like The freedom of the press and of expression is far from self-evident in many countries, and we see a frightening development in which freedoms are restricted. It's happening in our vicinity. Journalists are murdered, newspapers are forced to close, writers are threatened, citizens are silenced and the state controls the content of television broadcasts and public service and censors it. As politicians, we must stand up for free speech and free media, but that is far from obvious to some. It makes me extremely distressed how the Swedish democrats in this pulpit make down a whole profession in the form of journalists and want to slaughter the media support. I believe that we must protect all our media, the art of writing, the professional role of journalists, an independent public service and a variety of newspapers and magazines. And we politicians should stay as far away from the content as possible. If politicians begin to suggest that the state should control the media content, all the alarm bells of press freedom should ring. On the other hand, we should pay tribute to freedom of the press. We shall write, we shall read, we shall think, we shall think, and we shall never ever take our freedoms for granted.
i-658d12276c5cf663-191	Madam President, I would like I forgot to press the assent button just now, but I can say here that I fully share all the points made by Ida Karkiainen here in the speaker's chair. Thank you for your speech. Madam President, I would like We are therefore talking about the motions which were written last autumn during the general period of exercise and which relate to freedom of expression, freedom of expression and mass media issues. As is so often the case, all motions for resolutions are rejected by the committee, and I fully share the committee's view that all motions should be rejected. But that does not mean that the motion proposals are bad or unimportant. As we have heard, several motions are about the need to strengthen the protection of journalists and media leaders. That's what I think, and I think that's what all the parties here think. But there is also a great deal of work going on precisely to strengthen that protection. Sending new assignments to the government risks making the work messy and less efficient. In fact, it is better for the government to work on the ongoing action plans, investigations and efforts. The continued work to stop threats, violence and attacks against journalists and media editorials is very important if we are to have an open and free democratic dialogue. In my opinion, the tone of the general political debate, even here in the Parliament, is getting more and more inflated. Distortions of truths legitimise the hate and threat drives that are easily launched online. Politically elected representatives, especially women, LGBTQ people and people with ethnic background other than Swedish, are particularly vulnerable to storms online with threats and hatred. Untruths, distortions and suspicions of other political elected representatives in a high tone simply increase the threats and hatestorms. It is a major threat to the effective freedom of expression. Just as Ida said before, people are in danger of becoming silent. I sometimes hear things in this Chamber that make me react. In the previous debate here, it was a Member who compared a government proposal with Chinese water torture. I think that's a long way to go. Having that tone is a problem. What should the free media use the free speech for when the political debate has been silenced and aligned, when anyone who thinks it is reasonable to discuss the major problem of men's violence against women, when anyone who wants to highlight the problem of discrimination against LGBT people or who defends the rights of refugees is subjected to hatred and threats, which are also often fomented by parties in this House? When elected political representatives are silenced because of threats and hatred, it is of course a serious threat to democracy. It is absolutely crucial and proper to strengthen the protection of journalists and media editorials, and it is good that there is proper work going on with it. But we all, in this House too, have a great deal of responsibility for the tone of the political debate, and we must take that responsibility together.
i-658d12276c5cf663-201	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good debate so far. It is wonderful that we have an open and good debate with many opinions when we are debating this particular subject. Madam President, I would like The liberal movement was born in the struggle for the right to speak freely and criticize those who ruled. Courageous liberals have been fighting for hundreds of years for the freedom of expression that we too often take for granted in Sweden today and which also forms the basis of freedom of the press. But freedom of expression must be constantly defended. In many countries, developments are currently going in the wrong direction, and there are such trends in Sweden as well. It can be uncomfortable to defend freedom of expression and freedom of the press. It can be hard to stand up for everyone to say, think, think and write what they want even when it is things that you may not like or people in general do not like. But freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of the press must be unrestricted. You have to say what you want in a democracy; it is as simple as that. In Hungary and Poland, governments have tried in various ways to reduce the independence of the media. However, all EU countries must follow democratic principles. That is why we want the European Commission to regularly review compliance with fundamental democratic rights in the Member States. Systematic violations should lead to the suspension of EU support and, in particularly serious cases, the removal of the right to vote in the EU Council of Ministers. Madam President, I would like In Sweden too, there are those who want to restrict freedom of expression and freedom of the press, yes, our way of life and our democracy. These are people who express hatred and threats to our elected representatives or journalists and who try to prevent free speech. It is about politicians who seek to restrict freedom of expression by wanting to ban advertising, prayer euthropy or pornography. But then we come back to the core of freedom of expression: You should say, express and publish what you want. Madam President, I would like This is what is so difficult to defend sometimes. It is therefore important that we Liberals and others who believe in democracy and its fundamental rights stand up for it in wet and dry, even when it is a little uncomfortable. Sweden has a very strong constitutional protection for freedom of print and expression, but it needs to be updated to work in the digital environment. Today, the publisher of a newspaper may be charged with what is in the magazine's online article archive even if the text is decades old. We want the same principles to apply on the web as when the newspaper is printed on paper, i.e. one should not be able to prosecute far afterwards. Madam President, I would like We liberals usually say that the limit of freedom is where you violate someone else's freedom, not where you violate someone's feelings, beliefs or political beliefs. People and groups have always cried out for bans and censorship of things they dislike. Often they say it's for people's own good and for the good of society. But in a democracy, freedom of speech is as important as the air we breathe. In a democracy, we do not use bans to ensure that people say, express or publish what we like. In a democracy, we use debate. In a democracy, we take the floor or the pen ourselves and argue against it. We are not using the legislator's power to ban. Madam President, I would like Free and independent media that examines political power are crucial in every democracy. Swedish press and freedom of expression legislation shall be enforced against European legal traditions with less comprehensive constitutional protection for the free word. Democracy must be defended, and it must be allowed to defend itself. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-658d12276c5cf663-211	Madam President, I would like Democracy is based on the right to free opinion formation, the right to express oneself, freedom of association and the right to transparency, influence and participation in political processes. Our constitutions are the foundations and masonry on which our democracy rests and is protected. Several of my colleagues in the Constitutional Committee have explained how we view a number of motions relating to the constitutionally protected freedom of expression and expression and the media. Democracy is constantly exposed to challenges and threats, serious threats. Ida Karkiainen and Mia Sydow Mölleby pointed this out clearly in their speeches. We therefore need to follow developments closely and take counter-measures when fundamental democratic rights are threatened. We must stand up for and defend fundamental rights. Previous speakers have already outlined several of the measures taken by the government. Therefore, I do not need to take up the time of the House to repeat them, but I simply note that I share the view of the committee that the government is facing the challenges of its work by several athletes. I therefore support the committee's proposal.
i-658d12276c5cf663-215	Madam President, I would like We are now going to deal with the motion for a resolution KU28 Public administration. The report deals with approximately 50 motions on public administration in particular. I did not intend to go into each of these, but in my speech I will focus instead on the announcement the committee proposes that the Parliament should make to the government. Sweden has been tested by several crises in modern times, including the tsunami disaster, the big fire in Västmanland 2014, the IT scandal in the Swedish Transport Agency and of course the many forest fires during last summer's drought. Although these crises are very different, they are united by the fact that they have exposed shortcomings in the capacity of the state, municipalities and authorities to prevent and manage crises. When a crisis occurs, coordination and communication between different actors is of central importance. Time must not be wasted because of bureaucratic drainpipes or unclear hierarchies. Madam President, I would like When the Red-Green Government took office in 2014, responsibility for coordinating the Government's crisis management was transferred from the Prime Minister's Committee to the Ministry of Justice. The function thus lost its necessary central position, and the Prime Minister stood by the sideline. The Moderates have stressed in several motions that the Government's crisis management organisation should be in the Prime Minister's Committee, which is led by the Prime Minister, in order for the Government Office's crisis management to have a clearer position higher up in the hierarchy compared to the situation today, when the crisis management is under a trade department. As pointed out in the tsunami commission, the proximity of the Prime Minister is of great importance in order to give crisis management authority in relation to the trade departments. That is why I am pleased to note that the Constitutional Committee is now proposing that the Riksdag announce to the Government that it wishes to carry out a review of the central crisis management organisation with a view to establishing a national Security Council for crisis management at the Council of State Committee. Madam President, I would like It is, as we well know, the Prime Minister and the Government who decide in detail how the government work should be organised, but a benevolent contribution would be to allow the new National Security Council to become the government's central crisis management organisation and a hub on issues relating to national security in a broad sense and to ensure that strategic issues that do not have a natural residence in a single department of expertise are identified and dealt with. Madam President, I would like I would like to mention our moderate reservation on the application of law. We Moderates have proposed, in a committee motion, that the county boards be tasked with ensuring uniform application of law throughout the country through legal guidance documents and continued concentration of tasks. Madam President, I would like I am in favour of Amendment No 10 in paragraph 11 and of the committee's proposal in general.
i-658d12276c5cf663-223	Madam President, I would like The foundation for a strong and sustainable society in the long term is a well-functioning public administration. It shall be based on stability, trust and a popular order in which roles and responsibilities shall be clearly defined and transparent. It may sound grey and dry to highlight our bureaucracy, but it is of great importance to everyone. It can, if you like, be described as the lubricant itself in a well-functioning society. The report on which we have a position today, KU28, deals, as President Enström described, with 50 requests for action on public administration, which were submitted during the general period of exercise. They are about the governance of the authorities, crisis management, processing times and official roles, but also about children's perspectives and international outlook. The committee's proposal includes an announcement that a national security council will be set up by the Government at the Council of State Committee. It is based on a motion submitted. Therefore, Madam President, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3 in paragraph 4, which addresses precisely the issue of setting up the said Security Council. Otherwise, I support the report's proposal to reject the other motions. With regard to the issue of a National Security Council for crisis management, the report provides for a review of the central crisis management organisation with a focus on the establishment of a National Security Council for crisis management at the Council of State Committee. This is an issue that the committee has dealt with on several previous occasions, and motions have been raised. As recently as the autumn 2017 budget discussion, the committee pointed out, as before, that the Parliament is not responsible for taking decisions on matters relating to the organisation of the Government Office, and therefore similar motions have been rejected in the past. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for coordinating society's emergency preparedness, including civil defence, insofar as such matters do not concern the military capabilities or information security of the defence and insofar as such matters do not belong to any other department. There is knowledge, competence and experience, and there is also a special head of crisis management and a private office for the purpose. The Prime Minister's Committee has a Security Policy Council for the exchange of information on security policy issues, and this Council is led by the Prime Minister. The Government's website shows that the Crisis Management Council was established in December 2008 and that this Council is headed by the Secretary of State of the Minister for the Interior. The Council also includes the National Police Commissioner, Säpo Manager, Radiation Safety Authority, Post- och telestyrelsen with several actors. Madam President, I would like In an international perspective, there is every reason to emphasise that Sweden's public functions stand out well in comparison. Now that we are dealing with this matter, it may be appropriate to highlight the role of civil servant – the one who works for the common good – but also to emphasise the importance of cooperation and cooperation between the state, region and municipalities. The government, perhaps mainly through Minister of Civil Affairs Shekarabi, has taken good initiatives to create opportunities for public administrations to be developmental and forward-looking. Priority is given to training and skills development. Decisions and responsibilities should be at the appropriate level, preferably as close to activities and citizens as possible. In order to improve and further develop the public sector, the Government decided in 2016 to set up a trust delegation to analyse and propose how the governance of welfare services in the public sector, municipalities and county councils, within the framework of the existing regulations, can be developed in order to make greater use of employees' expertise and experience. In the 2019 Budget Bill, the Government emphasises that implementation is ongoing and that Statskontoret has mapped projects on behalf of the Government that contribute to developing the trust-based governance. The report shows that around 150 government agencies work with self-initiated projects related to trust-based governance. It is about making better use of employees' skills while achieving high efficiency. Madam President, I would like A motion addresses the question of interpretation in government contacts. Here it can be argued that in October 2017, the Government called a special investigator to review society's needs for and access to interpreters. In December, the investigator presented his report entitled ‘Understanding and being understood' – a reformed framework for interpreters in spoken languages. It proposes that the public sector should plan long-term, interact, coordinate and try to use the interpretation resources that are more flexible and efficient. Madam President, I would like Collaboration is a recurring concept, and I think that many regardless of party colour may think it is reasonable and good to try to achieve this when opportunities exist. One example of such collaboration in relation to authorities on foreign soil is the Nordic cooperation that takes place regarding the location of embassies. This has been mentioned in motions on this issue, and I can mention that in about 25 locations in different parts of the world there is some form of Nordic co-location, in some cases also with administrative cooperation. For example, Yangon in Burma and Dhaka in Bangladesh. In the field of foreign affairs, there have been motions to move the Embassy of Sweden in Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. In these cases, the decision-making competence of the government is available. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, which has been given an opinion on the matter, refers to the fact that the EU is clear in its view and that the government will deal with the issue and give its view of Jerusalem as a separate entity and as the future capital of two states. Another motion addresses the issue of an EU portal at the Government Office. We note that ongoing work is under way to improve EU-related information. Given the children's perspective, which I mentioned at the beginning, I can mention that decisions and measures concerning children should be followed up and evaluated from the perspective of children's rights. In addition, the Government decided in March 2018 to commission a special investigator to identify how Swedish legislation and practice are in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. As you know, the Convention will apply as a Swedish law from 2020. Extensive national work focusing on the role of municipalities and regions has been underway, and the starting point is obvious: Decision-makers and relevant occupational groups should have the necessary knowledge about the rights of the child and use it in activities involving children. This was a small sample of the movements that have been awakened. I maintain my motion.
i-658d12276c5cf663-238	Madam President, I would like The government governs the kingdom, and the parliament makes law. The public administration, in turn, has the task of applying the law laid down by Parliament. Since citizens' meetings with the law often come through contact with the authorities, it is essential that the agencies are exempt from all forms of irrelevant consideration. Neither the Riksdag nor the Government may interfere with what the authorities decide, and their independence is enshrined in the Constitution. The Constitution also states that courts and administrative authorities must take account of the equality of all persons before the law and observe objectivity and impartiality. Unfortunately, it does not really work that way today. Of course, the vast majority of officials handle their duties with the integrity and professionalism required by their profession. But there are also those who are driven by their own agenda or by duty to family or clan. Examples of this can be read about in a report from Örebro University that shows that 11 percent of all municipal officials are activists. Another nearby example is the infamous list of signatures with strange requirements for values that recently flourished in the government's own premises at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. In report 2017/ 18:KU37, the Constitutional Committee adopted its position that a review of the legislation on misconduct should be carried out with a view to extending the area of criminality. The proposal was debated and decided in plenary on 18 April 2018, i.e. over a year ago. Since the government has not announced any investigation directives, these important issues have become hanging. The Parliament should therefore, now that there is still time, make another announcement that it should once and for all be stated what should apply when government representatives express themselves or act in a clear political direction and that this is particularly taken into account in the forthcoming investigation. The authorities and agencies must never be politicised. I therefore request the approval of paragraph 11. Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, my colleague in the committee debated the issue of regional service centres, that is, the issue which on the surface was about placing state services closer to the citizens but which was actually about how the government can best facilitate for people who cannot, or do not want to, speak Swedish in contact with the authorities. The Swedish Democrats then stated that speaking the language and understanding the social codes or regulations governing the public's relationship with individual citizens is a fundamental prerequisite for being able to take part in the public service. Every year large amounts are paid out for language interpreters in Sweden. In our opinion, instead, the ambition should be for the cost of language interpreters to be more financed in the long term by self-contribution. In addition, a limit should be set on the duration of entitlement to tax-funded language interpretation. A reasonable limit is five years. Until then, however, regions and municipalities should be encouraged to use video interpretation. With the help of welfare technology, administration can be reduced and interventions made more effective. Large savings could also be made through coordination efforts with the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. I therefore also support reservation 2. Madam President, I would like When the government took office after the 2014 elections, responsibility for the actual coordination of the government's crisis management was transferred from the Prime Minister's Committee to the Ministry of Justice. A majority in the committee now wants to call on the government to review the central crisis management organisation and create a national security council for crisis management at the Council of State Committee. It is a good thing to give crisis management authority in relation to the Department of Trade by subjecting it to the Prime Minister's leadership. In this way, the Prime Minister and the National Security Council are a natural hub in the crisis management organisation. It should facilitate the ability to make rapid and important decisions as well as to increase the possibility for the Riksdag to follow up through the Constitutional Committee, for example, and if necessary evaluate the government's efforts in the event of a crisis situation. In addition to reservations 2 and 11, we in the Swedish Democrats naturally support all our reservations. But for time winning, I only ask for reservations 2 and 11.
i-658d12276c5cf663-250	Madam President, I would like The motions discussed in this report cover a number of important issues. Ultimately, the issues are public confidence in public administration and good administrative culture and how confidence in the activities of citizens is created and maintained. Apart from the fact that the public administration is based on a number of fundamental principles of law, the work on state values is important. The foundation of values consists of six principles that make it clear what it means to work in the state. The six basic principles are democracy, legality – that all public power is exercised under laws – objectivity, free opinion formation, respect, efficiency and service. There are also many regulations for the state employee to control and apply, such as the rules on public access and confidentiality. The Center Party has exercised that the Government's crisis management organisation should be located in the Prime Minister's Committee. In most crises, the Government Office does not play a central role. Instead, operational crisis management is managed by the relevant authorities. It is a system that should not be changed. It is important that the authorities, municipalities and other actors who have to deal with a crisis dare to act without waiting for any kind of go-ahead or governance from the government or the Government Office. However, it is essential that emergency preparedness within the Government Office is structured in such a way that authorities, for example, feel confident that they receive budgetary resources for extraordinary events, which may require government decisions. In addition, sometimes the Government Office must ensure that the relevant authorities act in the context of a crisis, not least in cases where a crisis affects the areas of activity of several different authorities. The Center Party wants the Government's crisis management organisation to be in the Prime Minister's Committee. In this way, the crisis management of the Government Office will have a clearer position higher up in the hierarchy compared to the situation today when the crisis management is under a departmental department. As the Tsunami Commission pointed out, as has also been said here today, the proximity of the Prime Minister is of great importance in order to give crisis management authority in relation to the trade departments. The new National Security Council will be the government's central crisis management organisation and will be the focal point on issues related to national security in a broad sense and will ensure that strategic issues are identified and addressed. When the current government took office in 2014, responsibility for coordinating the government's crisis management was transferred from the Prime Minister's Committee to the Ministry of Justice. The function thus lost its necessary central position, and the Prime Minister thus stood by the sideline. In autumn 2014, a new Special Security Council was also established with several relevant ministers for internal and external security. What role this advice has really played is not known. Madam President, I would like It is therefore my hope that the Constitutional Committee's proposal for an announcement, in terms of reviewing the central crisis management organisation with the aim of establishing a National Security Council for crisis management at the Council of State Committee, will win the House's approval. I also support the Center Party's reservation in the report that more authorities should be led by boards. We believe that, as in the private sector, it would be a good way to provide an authority with expertise with different backgrounds and experience in management. It would also help to highlight issues relating to business development in a broader perspective. I therefore propose that reservation 1 be approved.
i-658d12276c5cf663-259	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for reservation 5 to be approved under paragraph 5. In this report, Public Administration, the Christian Democrats have supported two opinions that we are not really dealing with, to put it bluntly. The committee has repeatedly declared that how the Government Office is organised or organised does not fall under the legislature of the Parliament, but it deals with the government sovereignly. This does not prevent us in the committee and we in Parliament from having opinions on and also saying how the government should deal with this. However, we must respect the fact that it is ultimately the government that organises itself and its work. Therefore, of course, I agree with what the majority of the committee expresses on the issue of the management of Sweden's crisis management and how it must be organised. Our Chairman, Karin Enström, has made a proper statement of our position, that is, the majority of the committee believes that the government should review the central crisis management organisation, with the aim of creating a national security council for crisis management at the Council of State Committee. The second point I would like to make concerns the motion I supported and supported by the Christian Democrats and the Liberals. It is about embassies, which is also something that the government owns but which the parliament can still have opinions on. Here the Committee on Foreign Affairs has raised the issue of Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, that is, which city the Embassy of Sweden in Israel should be in. I would like to read out the position taken by the Liberals and the Christian Democrats in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which I support here too: Jerusalem is actually the capital of Israel. The Israeli Parliament, the Government Office, the residence of the Head of State, central authorities and the Supreme Court have long been located in Jerusalem, consolidating the city's status as capital. From a historical perspective, Jerusalem has never been the capital of any other country than Israel and never of any other people than the Jewish. The Jewish connection to Jerusalem dates back 3,000 years. Against this background, it is our view that the Swedish Embassy should, at the appropriate time, be moved from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem. Such a decision would send a clear signal to the parties in a possible future peace process that Sweden is serious when we argue for a just peace for all. At the same time, Sweden should work towards a common Nordic embassy area in Jerusalem. Such cooperation can show the benefits that exist when neighbors live in unity and work together.
i-658d12276c5cf663-265	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I, too, agree with the speech of the Christian Democrats and with what was put forward on both the embassy issue and the issue of central crisis management. For time winning, I would like to remain in favour of reservation 6 under item 6. It is therefore an EU portal. Madam President, I would like What will our common future look like? Soon, every European country has its own Trumpcopy – nationalists and extremists spreading hatred, lies and fear. If they get what they want, much of the freedom that we have become accustomed to disappears. Borders are closed, and cooperation stops. But all over Europe, there are also many of us who want something else. Liberals take the fight for openness, for freedom and for a European future in which we solve the challenges together. Madam President, I would like In the current EU election movement, the Liberals say yes to Europe when others hesitate, complain or withdraw. On the contrary, we want more cooperation, because it is only with others that we can solve the really big issues – the climate crisis, security, jobs, law enforcement and our shared responsibility to receive more of the world's refugees. All over Europe, Madam President, it is Liberals who work the hardest for cooperation. Precisely because we like Europe so much, we also have the most ideas on how to improve the Union. Here in Sweden, in this House, this is such a proposal with an EU portal. Citizens' knowledge of the EU needs to be improved; both adults and young people should gain a greater insight into how the work in the EU is done and how it affects Swedish policy through education and awareness-raising activities. In order for the public to have easy and clear information about the EU's work, I and the Liberals want the Government Office to establish an EU portal on the Government.se, where information on government policy at EU level and all ongoing legislative processes is available. This would increase transparency. With this, I would therefore like to vote in favour of reservation 6 in paragraph 6.
i-658d12276c5cf663-270	Madam President, I would like There were some discussions when, in December 2017, the United States recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and the U.S. State Department was directed to move the U.S. Embassy from the financial centre Tel Aviv to the capital city of Jerusalem. Last May, the embassy was officially opened. This measure enjoys broad cross-political support in the US Congress – in particular, expressed in the Jerusalem Recognition Act of 1995, which was confirmed by the Senate as late as six months before recognition. The United Nations' plan of division of the British Palestine mandate of 1947 meant that the whole of Jerusalem and the surrounding area would be regarded as an international zone. However, this was not accepted by the Arabs, and when the State of Israel was proclaimed in 1948, the neighbouring Arab states attacked Israel with the aim of annihilating the state. East Jerusalem was occupied by then Transjordania, and the Jews were driven out. Western Jerusalem became a part of Israel. In the same aggression war Transjordani also occupied the West Bank, and Egypt occupied Gaza. When the Israeli Parliament held its first ordinary session in 1949, it was decided that Jerusalem is the capital of the Jewish state, as it has been since 1950 when Israel moved its government to western Jerusalem. Today, Parliament, the President, the Supreme Court and the Ministries, as well as social and cultural institutions and authorities, are installed in Jerusalem. When the Arab states of 1967 again attacked and made another attempt to wipe out Israel, Israel took the West Bank from Jordan, which had then occupied the area illegally for 19 years. They also took Jerusalem, who suffered under the same occupation, and since then Jerusalem has been an undivided capital of Israel. The fact that the city is under Israeli control has meant that people from all religions have been able to get there. This was not the case when East Jerusalem was under Arab occupation. Sweden should do what is already self-evident and as the Jews themselves have known for 3,000 years, since King David bought the place that today is Mount Tempel, namely to recognize Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and move the Swedish Embassy there. Our country's embassy should of course be located in the city from which Israel is ruled, and Jerusalem is actually the capital of Israel. In a previous speech, a comment was made that the EU has a certain opinion on the matter and so on. I believe that it is not the EU that should speak for us in foreign policy. It may well be that at the moment it is beneficial for Sweden – given the disastrous foreign policy of the Swedish Government and the fact that we have a foreign minister whose main merit is to disagree with other states and their government representatives, it might be good that the EU at the moment might to some extent speak for us. But that cannot be the case; we must, of course, pursue our own and independent foreign policy, and we must do the same. We're not leaving walkover in that area. With that, Madam President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 4.
i-A71GBN8X1b7L7nVBRKZHfG	Madam President, I would like The Constitutional Committee's report KU30 Constitutional issues address 69 requests from motions raised during the general exercise period 2018/ 2019. These claims relate to everything from government and the forms of constitutional changes to public holidays and the Swedish language. There are a large number of reservations, including a number of Moderates. I want to highlight some of them. The Moderates have exercised to set up a new constitutional investigation with several important assignments. Among other things, we believe that developments in countries such as Poland and Hungary call for consideration to be given to whether further formal requirements should be imposed in the event of constitutional changes. Today it is relatively easy to implement constitutional changes in Sweden. It is sufficient that Parliament takes two decisions by a simple majority and that there is an election between them. It doesn't have to be a regular election. It can be an extra choice. The question we have asked ourselves is whether it is too easy to implement a constitutional amendment. For example, it may be considered whether qualified majority voting is required in addition to two intermediate elections. We also think it should be considered whether the intermediate election should be an ordinary election or whether it should continue to be an extra choice. We believe that there is a need to further strengthen the independence of courts and judges in the long term. Among other things, the establishment of an independent Parliamentary and Government Council should be considered. Another issue concerns the placement of the court allowance in the State budget. The supervision of the courts should also be reviewed. We also think that it should be considered whether the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court should be given increased influence over who is appointed Justice. In this part, it should also be considered whether those courts should be given the legal right to submit observations to the Board of Judges during the trial process and also to the Government if the Government is considering appointing someone other than the one advocated by the Court of Justice. We Moderates have also exercised the need for a clearer system to check whether a particular provision of the law or regulation is contrary to a constitution. For example, a requirement for a review of the law could be introduced when a legislative proposal has been rejected by the Law Council and the government returns with a revised legislative proposal. Furthermore, a requirement for a qualified majority in the Riksdag should be considered when considering a legislative proposal that the Law Council has considered incompatible with the Constitution, the European Convention or the requirements of legal certainty. An ordinary court should then be able to establish that a provision of law is contrary to the Constitution or the European Convention. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to mention that the committee proposes two announcements using its right of initiative. One is that the parliamentary board should set up a parliamentary committee with the task of reviewing certain provisions concerning the budget proposal's financial and provisional budget. The second announcement is to the government and is about setting up a parliamentary committee to review the regulation of the war delegation. The provisions on the war delegation were added more than 40 years ago in a partly different time. The purpose of the investigation is to ensure that the regulation of how Parliament's work is organized in war or war danger is appropriate. Madam President, I would like Of course, I support all moderate reservations, but for reasons of time, I only support reservation 9 in paragraph 9.
i-658d12276c5cf663-284	Madam President, I would like For time to come, I only call for reservations 4 and 13, although of course we support all our reservations. Madam President, I would like When a legislative proposal receives criticism from the Law Council, the Government should review the proposal properly. As far as possible, the Council's views should be taken into account before the legislative proposal is submitted to Parliament for decision. However, there is no requirement in the government form that the Council's opinions should be heard or how they should be handled in a matter's further preparation. In practice, a majority in the Riksdag is free to adopt laws that are contrary to the law in force, despite the opinions of the Law Council or its advice. A rather recent example of this is the so-called High School Act. In its opinion on the proposal, the Legislative Council said that the limit has been reached on what is acceptable in terms of how legislation can be drafted. The Council's criticism was unusually harsh, and it was argued that the bill had many shortcomings and was contrary to the current constitutions. Nevertheless, the Parliament voted through the bill by a simple majority. It can be considered how this can affect the influence of the Law Council in the future. Madam President, I would like The current system of concrete norm testing needs to be complemented by the possibility of abstract norm testing. We believe that an abstract norm test should be limited to taking place on the Court's own initiative, or by an authority specifically designated for that purpose. Such an authority could act on notifications from the public which it deems appropriate. Individuals should not be able to bring proceedings solely in order to have the lawfulness of a particular provision reviewed, other than under the current regime. It is essential, however, for democracy that a court, with a few officials, should never be allowed to abolish entirely the laws of elected representatives. We believe that both the function of the Law Council and the possibility of abstract norm testing need to be further investigated. We therefore support the Christian Democrats' specific opinion in this report as it contains several good proposals for future solutions in this direction. Madam President, I would like We have recently made it through the process of forming a government. It was a lengthy process, even from a historical perspective. The impatience of the country's voters increased with each passing day. The fact that it took so long was largely due to the parliamentary situation that arose after the election results had been established. In the form of government, there are certain frameworks for how the process of government formation is to take place. However, there are no deadlines, and in practice a government voted out by the Riksdag can continue to rule the country until the next ordinary elections. Our view is that some kind of a longer time limit for the formation of government should be introduced into the form of government. This will avoid lengthy processes of concern among voters and the business community. The precise design of such a limit should be investigated within the framework of a parliamentary committee. Madam President, I would like In all parliamentary and democratic monarchies in Europe, it is the head of state, that is, the monarch, who formally leads the work of appointing a government leader. We believe that the same regime should apply in Sweden as well and therefore that the Head of State should assume the duties of the President today when a new Prime Minister is to be appointed. The Government should therefore prepare changes to the form of government in order to hand over the President's role in the formation of a government to the Head of State and return to the Riksdag with proposals.
i-658d12276c5cf663-294	Madam President, I would like The state is there to facilitate, not hinder, people's ability to use most of their own ability and dare to grow beyond their own borders. The task of the state is to guarantee people's fundamental rights and freedoms. The institutions must ensure the rule of law and the rules of the rules of society. The objective of the state must be to protect the weakest and most vulnerable, to open up opportunities for life to all through equal education, health care and care, and to provide basic financial security at the different stages of life. However, experience shows that public institutions and authorities sometimes tend to create the need for even more power. As a result, public power is growing at the expense of people's self-determination. It stifles individual initiatives, driving forces and entrepreneurship. It may also lack respect for people's privacy. In the worst case scenario, power is being centralised and moved further and further away from the people concerned. The Center Party wants the state to do what it is for, as effective and legally secure as possible, and in addition avoids through-regulating and over-taxing people. The state is for man, not the other way around. Madam President, I would like The state is the only entity in society that can exert force and violence. Therefore, the power exercised by the State must be subject to control. Constitutional freedoms and rights are, in this context, perhaps the most important tools for citizens. Political decisions and judicial decisions must be subject to appeal so that civil and human rights can be defended. Madam President, I would like A strong protection of our fundamental rights and freedoms is central to the Center Party. This is especially true in times when these are put under great pressure in parts of our world. We have been working for a constitutional court for a long time, where citizens should be able to have matters relating to constitutional matters examined. We see a constitutional court as a natural element of a society that protects the freedom of individuals. For us, the constitutionally protected rights, such as freedom of expression, freedom of the press and freedom of communication, are self-evident. They shall be guaranteed. Respect for the individual's personal integrity is a cornerstone of every democracy. A personal sphere where people without supervision can shape and exchange thoughts and create relationships is a prerequisite for personal development and a free public conversation. A strong protection of privacy is therefore an inalienable part of an open and democratic society. It is therefore important to have a division of powers, in which political decisions and other powers are not centralised into a few institutions and individuals. Transparency and transparency are fundamental prerequisites for freedom and democracy and for preventing corruption and abuse. We are aware that it is important to find a model for a constitutional court that works in Sweden's type of legal system. Our ambition is for the next comprehensive constitutional review to re-examine the issue of the constitutional court. Madam President, I would like I'm in favour of reservation 14.
i-658d12276c5cf663-303	Madam President, I would like I am, of course, behind all the reservations of the Left Party, but in order to gain time, I only ask for the approval of reservation No 2. As we have seen in the past, we are now debating constitutional issues. It is about how our country should be governed, how decisions should be made and so on. It is simply about how our democracy should work. These are crucial and very important issues. Madam President, I would like Almost all of this parliamentary term we have a sort of anniversary. In various ways, we pay attention to and celebrate that Sweden has had democracy for 100 years. The celebration is based on the fact that we have had universal and equal voting rights since 1919, or rather: the first decision was taken in 1918, and the proper decision was taken since 1919. The first election of women was held in 1921. This still didn't mean everyone had the right to vote. There was something called the proper line. This meant, for example, that people who had not paid their municipal tax or who received support from poor people had no right to vote at all. Only in 1945 did those who maintained support from the poor have the right to vote, and only in 1989 did the concept of "unauthorised" become obsolete. Only then, only 30 years ago, did everyone over a certain age, regardless of birth, economy, genes, general integrity and so on, get the right to vote and to participate in all elections. So now everyone has the right to vote, and everyone can be elected to any mission, right? Yes, it applies to all missions except as the country's foremost representative. It is not the most suitable person or the most trusted person to be appointed. As far as the Head of State is concerned, it is still about birth. It is still the case that the mission is handed down to the Bernadotte family. The Left Party absolutely believes that democracy is worthy of celebration, and we need to fight to preserve it every day. It is also our view that it is time to extend democracy so that we also appoint the Head of State in a democratic way. Of course, the highest office in a democratic country should be elected either by direct elections or by parliamentary elections in the manner in which we appoint the Speaker. Of course, there is a need for an investigation that looks at exactly how we could proceed in order to implement such a change, and then there are several different variants to investigate. We can have a direct election of the President, as one has in Finland, or a election made in Parliament, as in Germany. We can allow the Government to share the responsibility of the Head of State in a way similar to that of Switzerland, or we let the Speaker be the main representative of the country – the Speaker, who represents the elected representatives of the Swedish people in the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like Pending the abolition of the monarchy, there are other things to do. In Sweden, everyone is equal before the law, or well– almost everyone. The King cannot be brought to justice or to account for anything, no matter what it is and when the possible crime has been committed. The King has total immunity, unlike, for example, the Prime Minister, who has some immunity for what is done in the ministry. This applies, for example, to statements. This is also the case for us Members of Parliament when it comes to things we say in this House. But the king — the police cannot stop him if he drives too fast, if he drives drunk or if he commits any other crime between shoplifting and murder. We cannot have that in a democracy! It is clear that the total immunity of the Head of State must be removed. In a democracy, it goes without saying that we have freedom of religion. But that does not really apply to everyone. The King must always be of the pure evangelical doctrine, such as that of the unchanged Augsburg confession, as well as Uppsala's decision of 1593, adopted and explained is. It's very archaic, you might think, but that's what it says in the succession order. Princes and princesses must be raised in the same doctrine and within the kingdom; otherwise they cannot claim the throne. No freedom of religion there, not! But don't you get to marry whoever you want in a democracy? And you can travel whenever you want, right? Well, that doesn't apply to everyone either. Princes and princesses may not marry without the government's approval, nor travel abroad without the King's consent – at least not if they want to continue to have the opportunity to become Head of State in the future. Yet, do we not look at all public funds that go to government activities in the same way? Surely it is clear in a democracy that representation costs and receipts can be reviewed? Well, it's for all business except the court. The money for the court state comes in bulk, and how it is used cannot be examined. For the Left Party, the only reasonable thing is for the Head of State to receive a fee for his mission, just as the Prime Minister has, and that the costs of the office are then money that can be examined just like the funds for the Government Office, the Riksdag or any authority. It's a mess to have this special arrangement for the head of state and the court, but that's what applies in modern democracy Sweden. We can't keep doing that. Make it possible even for those who, in their youth, have travelled abroad without Dad's permission or for those who have married someone in secret to still run for the country's highest office – whether it be President, President or Prime Minister! Extend democracy, and let us ensure that everyone has the right to elect their representatives at all levels of the Swedish system! Now, when we celebrate the 100 years of democracy, it is high time to also ensure that the last undemocratic parts of Swedish government are removed. It is simply time to abolish the monarchy.
i-658d12276c5cf663-317	Madam President, I would like On a personal level, I can note that, like Mia Sydow Mölleby before me here in the speaker's chair, I too would like to introduce democracy fully in this country. I think that's the only reasonable thing. Madam President, I would like The European Union exists for the citizens of Europe. In order for the laws and rules established in the EU to be legitimate and have the desired impact, citizens must know that decisions are taken democratically. The democratic deficit experienced must be countered, and citizens must have confidence in their parliaments, both national and European. Today, the European Parliament cannot propose legislation but must wait for legislative proposals from the European Commission. But, Madam President, we Liberals want to strengthen the influence of European citizens and give the European Parliament the right to propose new European laws which can then be decided on together with the Council of Ministers. It is sometimes said in this House's pulpit that it would be less democratic because the EU is bigger than Sweden and feels like further away. I think that is a rather strange argument, Madam President. It is clear that there may be such a feeling, but we must ensure that the link between the European people, the vote that we cast on election day and the decisions that are taken are strengthened. Then the right way to go is precisely to ensure that the European Parliament is given the opportunity to propose new laws itself. Democracy is not about the size of the organisation or parliament that will make laws. Democracy is about how the elections themselves are held, who is allowed to participate, how it is done, if the law passed by Parliament is followed – simply how democracy is organised. Otherwise, Stockholm would be less democratic than Linköping because Stockholm is bigger. Or the United States would be less democratic than Venezuela because the United States is bigger. It is, of course, a ludicrous argument, Madam President, that the degree of democracy should be in the size of the area to which democracy refers. It is about principles, and it is about how the state is organised. Madam President, I would like We Liberals also want to strengthen the possibility for the European Parliament to call interested parties to hearings when specific cross-border events need to be examined. Madam President, I would like It is unacceptable for Member States to refuse to comply with and implement democratically agreed EU decisions and to violate the EU's founding treaties, whether in terms of migration policy, the rule of law or economic issues. Without taking political account, the Commission shall bring an action against those countries which do not implement EU decisions in time or in the right way. Processes in the Court of Justice of the European Union against countries that are clearly in breach of the EU Treaties must go faster than at present. For these reasons, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservation 8. Of course, I also support the other positions taken by the Liberals, but I do not wish for time to win anything more. However, I would like to raise one more point in the debate, Madam President. It is reservation 14, which the Center Party has already called for and which is about establishing a constitutional court. Sweden is one of the most stable democracies in the world, but we are not immune. In many countries the development of democracy is now going backwards. Democracy is weakening, and tough governments are taking control of the courts and the media. It doesn't really look like that in our country, but we're in no way immune. We politicians – we should admit that – can sometimes fall victim to drift and current whims, simply get caught up in the political debate, and want to make laws that fundamentally challenge certain basic democratic principles, such as freedom of expression that we discussed earlier today in this House. Liberal democracy, Madam President, is not just about the greater number of people winning. It is not just a question of 100 people being allowed to do what they want with ten people or 51 % being allowed to decide how they want to do more than 49 %. Liberal democracy is also based on fundamental principles, fundamental freedoms and rights. We have established them in our constitution. Liberal democracy must also protect itself from those politicians who want to tear up, who want to challenge and who want to introduce legislation that restricts the fundamental rights that guarantee democracy. It is not democratic, no matter how many people you are, to remove freedom of expression. It is not democratic, no matter how many people you are, to restrict freedom of the press – for example. That is why we need strong constitutions that protect democracy and our human rights and freedoms, but we also need a constitutional court to ensure that Parliament takes decisions that are consistent with the constitutions that we have agreed. In many countries around us, a constitutional court is an important protection of the rule of law and democracy. This should also be the case in Sweden.
i-658d12276c5cf663-331	Madam President, I would like The Swedish form of government from 1809 was valid until 1974. When a new form of government was to be made before 1974, it was investigated for about two decades. Then, after about 30 years, a new constitutional investigation was set up that worked for many years and made a revision. There, the parties compromised. The attitude was that we should argue about politics between parties, but we should agree on the rules of the game. If you want to agree on the rules of the game, you don't always get what you want. You have to change things in a long process in a constitutional investigation. I think agreements should be kept. It's about the Supreme Court or whether you're going to have a constitutional court. This could be about, as Mia Sydow Mölleby was at, whether we're going to have a republic or not. The parties have different views around these things. However, they are not suitable for individual movements in the Riksdag, and they are not suitable to vote through in the Riksdag one by one. They are suitable for long, boring, tough constitutional investigations where you exchange views with each other, discuss and see what you can agree on. Therefore, I think that all motions on fundamental changes in government should be rejected until a new, major constitutional investigation is set up. Sometimes you have to make minor changes to our constitutions – adjustments to time, adjustments to different things. We can do that. We have some such proposals for announcements to the government in this year's report on the constitutions, and we Social Democrats support them. This is, for example, a review of the war delegation. Thankfully, the war delegation has never been tried in reality. Like many other parts of our total defense, it may not be completely up-to-date. We are now working on trying to recreate the total defence that was considered by a Prime Minister not so long ago to be a special interest. We Social Democrats have never thought it was a special interest. We think that total defence is important, and then we must also review the parliament's own part of it, namely the war delegation, and ensure that it works in a modern context. As regards a review of the long process of government formation that we had after last year's elections, many have said that this took a long time, over a hundred days, so now we have to review the system. I'd like to say no, it's time to take it easy. Let researchers evaluate and discuss the suitability of it. Let's get some distance to what happened. Was it a total disaster? The country worked, the country got a budget, the country was ruled and we eventually got a government that works in a whole new political landscape. Perhaps our constitutional fathers were wiser than we imagine and understood that sometimes things happen in the planetary system that the party structure is that makes the parties have to reorient themselves and that the system must work anyway. I think we should take it easy. The basic laws do not deal with experiments, but with long, boring and tough investigations. I support the report.
i-658d12276c5cf663-339	Madam President, I would like I didn't intend to ask for a reply at all, but Hans Ekström challenged me a little in the statement about the defense and total defense. Madam President, I would like to remind you that I myself, together with representatives of all the parties in Parliament, have spent more than two years in a defence preparation and have worked hard, intensively and seriously on how we can just re-establish a modern total defence and a modern military defence. It was a little unnecessary, Mr Ekström, to say this on a day like today because the Social Democrats and the government said so clearly yesterday: Yes, these are great plans, but we cannot promise a single crown. It bothers me, and that is more what I want to point out today. The debate is not about this today, and there is also a great deal of wisdom with regard to the Constitution, how to think and how to agree, as I agree.
i-658d12276c5cf663-342	Madam President, I would like My speech perhaps had more of a small mean sting to a former moderate Prime Minister who had a more frivolous view of the total defense than what Karin Enström is currently expressing. I appreciate that the Moderate has settled in the modern world.
i-658d12276c5cf663-343	Madam President, I would like That leaves only to ensure that the government comes back to reality and is prepared to pay what is required.
i-658d12276c5cf663-344	Madam President, I would like A budgetary process remains.
i-658d12276c5cf663-345	Madam President, I would like If you exclude that little little stick that can stand out sometimes, I have to say that in everything I agree with what Hans Ekström just said here in the speaker's chair. I think that was a good summary of our agreement. What do we agree on? As far as the Left Party's position is concerned, the Left Party has been exercising as long as it has been possible to exercise in the Riksdag – the entire 20th century – about abolishing the monarchy. And every time, every year, the Riksdag has said: No, we will keep it. I call that the monarchy is democratically founded. The issue has been raised for decisive votes in every parliament since it began to be exercised. That is how it will be today. I can tell you that without revealing any big secrets. Why will it be so? Because we're in agreement. Where did we get along? Actually, I wasn't there. I was certainly born in 1971 when the Torekov agreement was made, but my party was not in it. However, we have supported it and said that this is reasonable. Then I think Hans Ekström happened to say wrong but that it was right anyway. He said we'd trade views with each other in a negotiation. It was perhaps thought that we were breaking opinions with each other, but I would like to give him the right thing, because it is the way it is after an agreement that once you agree, you have changed your mind – sometimes with each other. That's what happened in 1971. The Christian Democrats have supported the agreement and say: This is a reasonable order. This is what we will defend and stand up for. It may sound unreasonable with individual things that we heard the Left Party raise, but that is what we agree on, and then we preserve it. You can't have it in many ways, you have it this way. Like the former form of government, which lasted from 1809 until 1974, I think this one will be able to hold for a while longer. This does not prevent one from having an opinion on how it could be in a future when it comes to the form of government. For a long time, the Christian Democrats have been advocating and exercising for a constitutional court of the kind that exists in Germany, for example. That is our position; that is what we think. But now we want to try another way. Let me read the special opinion which the Christian Democrats have added to the report and which the Swedish Democrats have also joined in the formal sense and which coincides with what several others have said, including the Moderates, in substance. The Swedish Law Council plays an important role in the preliminary review of the Government's legislative proposals before they are submitted to the Riksdag. It is also compulsory, according to the government form, for the government to obtain the opinion of the Legislative Council if the legislative proposals fall within the review area. There may be reasons to further strengthen the role of the Law Council in reviewing the Government's legislative proposals. For example, there could be a requirement for a review of the law when a legislative proposal has been rejected by the Law Council and the government returns with a revised legislative proposal. It could also be considered whether there should be a requirement for qualified majority voting in Parliament when considering a legislative proposal which the Legislative Council has considered incompatible with the Constitution, the European Convention or the requirements of legal certainty. In Sweden, there is no possibility of an abstract norm test. It is therefore not possible in Sweden to bring an action before a court and to request the Court of Justice to repeal a particular provision of a particular law on the ground that the provision is contrary to a provision of a constitution. It is also not possible for the Riksdag, or a minority in the Riksdag, to refer a bill to a court and request the court to decide whether the proposal is contrary to a constitution or not. The question of an abstract norm test was only briefly addressed by the Basic Law investigation (SOU 2008:125 p. 375) and there may therefore be a need for further investigative measures. For example, a detailed analysis of the reasons for and against introducing the possibility of an abstract norm test, either before or after the adoption of a law or other regulation. However, the norm control system has relatively recently been investigated by the Basic Law investigation. The Committee's report was the result of an agreement between representatives of all the then parliamentary parties who agreed not to make any reservations or specific opinions. In the light of this, we now refrain from expressing a different opinion in a reservation, but at the same time wish to emphasise that it is important, in the next comprehensive constitutional review, for the review and abstract norm testing of the Law Council to be re-examined. .....................................................
i-658d12276c5cf663-358	Madam President, I would like Sweden differs from other parliamentary democracies in that the President instead of the Head of State has the task of proposing a new Prime Minister for the Riksdag. The President's role is laid down in the form of government. The fact that Sweden differs from other parliamentary democracies depends on the compromise reached between the Social Democrats and the bourgeois parties in 1971 in Torekov, the so-called Torekovs compromise. The compromise was part of the work of the Basic Law Committee and meant that the Swedish monarchy consisted but at the cost of the monarch being deprived of all political influence, for example in the formation of government. It is now almost 50 years since the compromise was concluded, and the political landscape in Sweden has changed. The socialist bloc, with the abolition of the monarchy in the programme, has, thankfully, no longer a majority of its own, and is also a long way from getting it. It is not reasonable for a compromise reached 50 years ago, in a completely different political landscape, to stand forever. The political winds that blew at that time have given way. The two political blocs that existed in Swedish politics for a long time and that made up in the compromise no longer exist. It is therefore today a completely new political landscape with new political orientations. What we saw after the elections last year was that the role of the President, which should be separate from the purely political parliamentary work, was drawn into the political game of government power in a way that we had not seen before. There are strong reasons for taking steps to separate the role of President from the purely political game around the prime minister's role so that it does not continue to be the subject of party political strategies and dirty games. Therefore, the responsibility for proposing new Prime Minister for the Riksdag should move back to the Head of State, which is completely outside party politics. It is also perfectly logical that the Head of State, as the main representative of the State, should lead the work of finding an appropriate candidate for the post of Head of Government. Sweden would not therefore be distinguished from the other parliamentary democracies in the world either. I request the approval of reservation 4. Then I would like to comment on the complete frontal attack by Mia Sydow Mölleby and the Left Party against the king and the royal house. It was a frontal attack called good. I am pleased and proud to note that she belongs to a minority in this House – the Social Democrats, the Green Party and certain liberal forces included – and I am pleased that there is clear support for our King and his house.
i-658d12276c5cf663-364	Madam President, I would like We are, of course, in favour of all our reservations, but for the time to come, I am only in favour of reservations 3 and 5. Madam President, I would like The current term of office celebrates democracy 100 years. When democracy was introduced, we had a different constitution and two-chamber parliament. As with everything else, democracy must be developed in order to survive. It is a good conservative principle of small and premeditated stages of change. In Sweden, for example, we have a long tradition of so-called constitutional practice, that is, an unwritten regulatory framework that is applied and respected by the political parties. Because of the practice, respect and consensus that existed in Parliament, much has been left unregulated. Such a non-law but in practice regulated question is from which parties or party groups the Presidents are to be elected. For a long time, the Presidents have been elected on the basis of the number of seats given to each party in the elections. This was the case until 2018, when the practice was suddenly abandoned. As long as constitutional practice is respected, applied and defended by the parties elected to the Swedish Parliament, certain issues may well remain unregulated. It is only when practice is not maintained but changes on a case-by-case basis that it is relevant to question why the regulatory framework is not explicitly regulated. Unfortunately, the parliamentary elections have now placed the Vice-Presidents' elections in that particular situation. Therefore, since the constitutional practice developed in the election of Vice-Presidents has worked well for many years, there is reason to place it in law. Against this background, the Riksdag Board should set up an investigation with the aim of changing the regulatory framework, so that Speakers are appointed according to the size of the parties. The same can be said of the question of the election of Bureau posts in Parliament's committees. Now, a body whose members are elected in whole or in part by the Riksdag must elect a chairman and one or more vice-chairmen, unless otherwise specified. The legal situation thus reflects the fact that each committee elects its own chairman and vice-chairman. In practice, this is a truth with modification. A practice has been developed whereby the political parties elected to the Swedish Parliament distribute the Bureau posts among themselves. So when the election of the chairman of a committee is to take place, it is already decided which party he or she belongs to. There is in itself no objection to this practice, as long as voters' preferences are respected, that is to say that the allocation of Bureau posts is done through a strictly proportional distribution between the elected parties in Parliament. In view of this, there is a need, as with the election of the Speakers, to regulate, on the basis of a statutory proportionality criterion, the party from which the bureau posts in Parliament's committees are to be elected. Madam President, I would like Here in the Chamber hangs both a Swedish flag and an EU flag. In our firm opinion, there should be no EU flag here because Parliament is for elected representatives of the Swedish people, not others. However, since it is a matter of tradition – practice could be said – it is up to the President to decide which flags are to be hung here, I will not reserve or ask for approval to remove the EU flag. If, however, Madam President, we are willing, in consultation with our colleagues, to lift it out, we would of course be very grateful.
i-658d12276c5cf663-373	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Left Party's reservation No 1. So this is another report dealing with motions from last autumn, which is why it is very good and mixed about Parliament's working methods. They concern how we should do our work in the house and the rules that exist. It concerns rules for the committees, the election of the President, flags, how we are placed, what compensation we receive and so on. All motions for resolutions are rejected by the committee, and I share the committee's opinion in any case except one, where we have a reservation. It concerns the remuneration of Members of Parliament, that is to say, the remuneration of Members of Parliament. The Left Party's view is that the parliamentary mission should be highly remunerated. It's an important mission, and everyone should have the opportunity to take it. One should not risk being interested in receiving gifts from others because the assignment is given too low a remuneration, and one should receive compensation because it is a very heavy task that actually requires a lot of work. However, as it is now, we think that the compensation is too high and that it should be reviewed. Our proposal is that the compensation should be linked to the price base amount. Hundred per cent of a price base amount would today be around 46 000 per month, and that is not a low compensation. We think it is more reasonable in relation to the people we are here to represent. We are the greatest representative of the people, and we shall also feel as much as possible that we represent people and have similar living conditions. The conditions must not be too different. We also think it is a reasonable order for parties to distribute their work within themselves and that they can then remove additional allowances as members for various assignments linked directly to parliamentary work. This is particularly true when, for example, it is possible to increase the number of Presidents, and it also provides additional compensation – the costs for Parliament are rising overall. We do not think that is a reasonable order. Instead, the workload will have to be redistributed. I would like to express my support for reservation No 1.
i-658d12276c5cf663-379	Madam President, I would like It seems to be a bit of a fun hour here, with the last constitutional committee debate of the day. You can give any interior design tips you want. Madam President, I would like I think it's a little silly with flags. If you or any of your colleagues are in the mood to come over to my office, I'll give you some other interior design tips. I think this hall is boring and the chairs are a little dusty and old. But let us let go of the silly questions about flags and the furnishings of the Chamber and instead move on to the policy that is serious. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 6. I do so because I think it is important to protect the foundations of democracy here in Sweden too. Madam President, I would like When you stand behind the election screen with ballot papers and envelopes, you literally have the power in your hand. Isn't democracy beautiful? It has the power, together with other Swedish and European citizens in a free democracy, to decide the way forward for both Sweden and the whole of Europe. You actually have to influence the future of the whole world. Together, we are choosing European citizens which path our continent will take in the future. Madam President, I would like The European Union is a democratic Union in which power is to be based on the citizens of Europe. For democracy in the Union to be strengthened, national parliaments must be given a clearer role in the work of the European Union. A national parliament must be able to call an EU Commissioner to defend the legislative proposals and recommendations made by the Commission to the Member States. It is also important that Parliament and other parliaments can join forces in order to be able to invite the European Commission to present legislative proposals. The Liberals also want to strengthen consultations on EU policy in Sweden. Madam President, I would like In order to strengthen democracy in Europe, the legislative process must be as transparent and accessible as possible. The participation and transparency of organisations and other actors in the work of government and government in the EU Council of Ministers needs to be strengthened, so that input and suggestions from them can be taken care of already during the legislative process. Today, consultation bodies are often given the opportunity to make comments only when an EU directive is to be transformed into Swedish legislation, which limits transparency and opportunities for influence. Liberals believe that the government and state authorities should be obliged to inform and invite for consultation on EU work. That is why I am in favour of reservation 6. If Mrs. Speaker or one of her colleagues wants more interior design tips than those that the Swedish Democrats previously gave, I sit on floor 5 in Cephalus.
i-658d12276c5cf663-388	Madam President, I would like On 11 March 2010, the Swedish Parliament announced that Sweden will recognise the genocide of 1915 on Armenians, Assyrians/Syrians/ Chaldeans and Pontic Greeks. During the genocide, which lasted between 1915 and 1922, more than 1.5 million people were murdered. During this horrendous event there were Swedish and Scandinavian heroes who tried to help people and alleviate suffering. Several of the members of the Riksdag here may have attended the exhibition that I arranged here in the house just before Christmas, together with the Embassy of Armenia and the Armenian National Association in Sweden. Exhibition one portrayed what happened with focus on the Scandinavian efforts made to help people escape the genocide. One of these heroic heroes is Alma Johansson. She was a Swedish missionary who helped Armenian children and refugees and witnessed the genocide committed. She has received a record of her efforts at the genocide monument in Yerevan. Alma Johansson was born in 1881 here in Stockholm and eventually came to work with Women's Mission workers, KMA, in the city of Mush in today's eastern Turkey, which was then administered by the Ottoman Empire. She worked at a German orphanage for Armenian orphans and also served as a nurse and midwife. In the outbreak of World War I, persecution of Christian minorities in the Ottoman Empire began to increase. She worked during the years 1910– 1915 in Mush, where she, together with Norwegian Bodil Bi ø rn, headed a home for orphan Armenian children and ran an outpatient clinic for adult patients. Alma Johansson witnessed many of the atrocities committed by the Turks. She portrayed her experiences in writing A people in exile. She also gave testimony to German and American diplomats, who published the information. Alma Johansson spoke about how women took poison so as not to end up alive in the Turks' hands and how soldiers led bloody, wounded women and children through the city, while other soldiers shot at them to be intimidated. When the wounded fell to the ground, the soldiers beat them to death with the gun's butt. She provided information on how all children at home were requested to be handed over to a high officer with assurance that they were in good hands and would be reunited with her. A few days later, she was told that all the children were taken to a building outside the city and murdered. She testified, "Never can I forget that sight." And nothing could be done for them! The Armenians and the Greeks are now being systematically exterminated, killed or chased from their homes to spread in smaller groups to far-distant Turkish regions, where they are given the choice of going to Islam or dying for swords or starvation. ..................................................... Alma Johansson came home broken down to Sweden, but in spite of that, she returned to Constantinople a few years later to work among Armenian refugees. There, too, she witnessed further abuse of Armenians, both residents and refugees from the eastern provinces. When the door to Constantinople was closed for good, she and some associates moved to Thessaloniki, where for 20 years they tried to alleviate the plight of the Armenian refugees. Madam President, I would like There are plenty of female heroes in history. For various reasons, they have many times been given a place of concealment. Perhaps this is because it was mostly men who wrote the story. Here in Parliament we have a special place for heroes, the room of good deeds. In this room we highlight heroes such as Raoul Wallenberg, Folke Bernadotte, Harald Edelstam and our veterans. I believe that Alma Johansson can also be a human and hero to highlight and pay attention to the good deed and therefore dedicate to her a place in this room. Last year, when I was second Vice-President, I raised this in the Chair, in the hope that further work would be carried out on the proposal. I have also exercised that the Riksdag should announce to the Riksdag Board that it wants Alma Johansson to be highlighted and given a place in the Room of Good Works. The Constitutional Committee's report refers to the fact that these issues lie primarily with the leadership of the Parliament administration, which is quite correct. A parliamentary reference group has also been set up for the redesign of the Women's Room and the Room of Good Works, whose work started in April and is scheduled to be completed by the end of October this year. I therefore hope that the proposal to give Alma Johansson a place in the room of good deeds will be taken into account. Not least should all parties claiming to be feminists be interested in and driven in this proposal to highlight a female hero and give her the place and the recognition she deserves. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to comment on what Joar Forssell from the Liberals said earlier. It is clear that the Liberals have no understanding of symbolic values. But flags are important symbols, and they have an important symbolic value. I think it is a mockery of Swedish democracy, Parliament and all our voters that we have an EU flag hanging in this House. We have a Europe that governs much of the policy that we are pursuing here – not through elected Swedish politicians but through elected politicians from other countries and bureaucrats who are not even elected. It is a mockery of Swedish democracy, which many have worked hard for us to have today. I therefore call on the President and the Presidium of Presidents to take a decision to replace the flag which is hanging here today and which symbolises the European Union with, for example, our national weapon, Sweden's national weapon, or similar. It would be much more correct to have it in the highest decision-making body in Sweden.
i-658d12276c5cf663-402	Madam President, I would like It was very kindly pointed out that no one has asked for approval of the proposal in the KU report. I therefore think that I can take advantage of my right to speak and do so. While I am on the floor, I can also say that I think it is appropriate that we have the symbol of the European Union in this House. Sweden is part of the European Union, and a great deal of the legislation in force in Sweden depends on European cooperation. The Swedish Parliament is also part of the legislative process that applies to European legislation.
i-658d12276c5cf663-404	Before moving on, I would like to draw the House's attention to the fact that, among the audiences in today's debate, we have a delegation from the Icelandic everything under the leadership of President Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. Welcome to the Swedish Parliament!
i-658d12276c5cf663-406	Madam President, I would like We are going to debate the report on strengthened order and security in our courts. It is an urgent and long-awaited report, given its content. Too often today, many who take part in court proceedings, trials and the like feel threatened or uncomfortable in various ways. It affects the legal process itself and can, in the worst case scenario, cause the outcome to the detriment of the victim of a serious crime. The Swedish Democrats have long proposed a number of different sharpenings when it comes to our courts. Alarm bows are one thing we have pointed out in I do not know how many years now. We now see that work is under way in our courts to install precisely alarm bars to expose people who bring stick guns or even pistols into the courtrooms. It has happened on some occasions that weapons have been taken in, and witnesses have been intimidated with weapons inside the courts. I myself served as a referee in the Eskilstuna District Court a number of years ago. One of the first impressions I had was when, before we began serving as a judge, we visited the courtroom and saw a bullet hole in the wall inside the courthouse. But we were told that it is very rare for shots to be fired inside our courtrooms. That is, of course, grateful. However, people try to threaten and intimidate Witnesses in various ways. It can be subtle things like audiences sitting and filming or taking pictures of those involved in the negotiations. It can affect not only witnesses and plaintiffs, but also the referees. They can be distracted and frustrated and experience a threat by documenting their presence or what they say. This report proposes a number of tightening ups, for example in the last paragraph, which states: I think that's a little too slow attitude towards electronic equipment that has a photographic function. It is reasonable that such equipment should be left outside the courtrooms at all. This avoids being disturbed during ongoing negotiations by the fact that a person may pick up a mobile camera or similar that has previously been tucked away. In order to tackle this problem, the Swedish Democrats have a reservation in the report which states that there should be a total ban on having electronic equipment that has a photographic function for listeners in the courtrooms. It's only reasonable. The reasons given for not having a total ban are practical reasons that are quite easy to fix. Just put up cabinets with key function outside the courtrooms. Then you can quickly turn in your equipment, and after leaving the hall you can quickly pick out the equipment again. I do not see that maintaining that order would cause any further inconvenience to the staff of the courtroom. On the contrary, it will lead to more trials being processed without disturbing moments. That is why we are in favour of our reservation 3 in the report on a total ban on photographic electronic equipment.
i-658d12276c5cf663-412	Madam President, I would like Legal certainty is incredibly important and contains many different elements. People working in the judicial system should feel safe at work. Witnesses, plaintiffs and defendants should feel safe. Therefore, the Left Party welcomes several of the proposals in the bill, but we are critical of others. The good will of the government to improve the situation of victims and witnesses and to strengthen security must not lead to a limitation of the public's right to transparency in court proceedings. The public has a great interest in following what is happening in our judicial system. All the TV shows wanted and the crime of the Week, not to mention all the detectives, testify that we find crime very exciting. The form of government states that court proceedings should be public. News coverage often has live reports from trials. Journalists write down exactly what is said and happens there and then. And there are probably many of us who are both following and fascinated by the Swedish judicial system. It's good that courts don't get closed rooms where no one knows what's going on. Transparency and reporting from the media are good. It should of course be correct, follow ethical rules and respect the often very tough situations that both defendants and plaintiffs find themselves in. The use of side-rooms in court proceedings to make room for the public is quite reasonable in some cases. But it can also mean less transparency, as the Journalist Association points out in its referral. Therefore, the Left Party believes that journalists should be allowed to be present in the courtroom itself and not in the side hall. If journalists are in the courtroom, it can counter the proliferation of misconceptions about what is happening during the trial itself. We also believe that electronic equipment should be available in the courtroom. The government proposes that electronic equipment be shut down and tucked away. This will make the work of journalists more difficult. The possibility of direct reporting, for example, becomes virtually impossible. The Left Party is therefore proposing a way forward. The Court should be given the task of designing an accreditation system for journalists and freelancers in order to allow them to be present in the courtroom and to use electronic equipment during the hearing. It will then be clear who can follow the trial in the courtroom. The government proposes that it be forbidden to photograph directly into the courtroom. It is one of those proposals that seems reasonable at first sight. But if we broaden our perspective and look at what the consultation bodies are writing about that particular proposal, we can see that the criticism is quite clear. The ban is an interference with freedom of expression and information and makes it more difficult for the public to gain insight into the state of the proceedings. Starting to restrict the right to photography in public premises opens up for restriction of photography overall. We do not believe that we should go that way. I want to continue to be able to follow trials through media live reports. I don't want the courtroom to be a closed room without transparency. I request the approval of reservation 2.
i-658d12276c5cf663-422	Madam President, I would like There's something special about being in a courtroom. Even in high school, I used to get in and take advantage of the opportunity to witness trials in accordance with the principle of public access. It's supposed to be something special when you go into a courtroom. That's where justice is to be done. That's where everyone's gonna talk about it. There the court shall weigh, deliberate and judge. As the Tenant's representative, I myself have represented tenants and experienced how, after a court hearing, they walk straighter from there. They have been restored, and it has not been dependent on the size of their wallet. It is precisely what is right that should be in focus. If we have the ambition that the judiciary should work like this, it is also important that we vigorously counteract people feeling scared and held back in courtrooms. It may be that one experiences strong pressure from others in the courtroom and does not get the words that are necessary for the court to be able to do justice. It is therefore urgent that we now have a series of legislative proposals to strengthen the position of victims. It goes without saying to me that a judge himself should have the full authority to keep order in the courtroom. This has to be immediate. It is good that it is now being proposed that there should not be a need for consultation with the whole court. Of course, those who disrupt the order of the court and put pressure on others in the courtroom should be able to be expelled not only from the hall but also from the entire court building. There is a very important symbol in it, but it is also very important in substance. I also welcome the legislative changes which are now on the table and which allow victims to be present via video. It increases their security and, at the same time, their chances of redress. At last, we're doing something about the unhappiness of shooting into court halls. There is a ban on photography in the halls, but with great objective, modern technology and very assertive photographers the ban has basically been rounded. I think it is good that we are now also introducing a ban on photography into the halls. In conclusion, I am very pleased that we now have a proposal on the table that strengthens the position of victims and creates order and order in our courtrooms in an even better way. At the same time, I think that the proposal is balanced and balanced against the principle of public access and other things that are important for legal certainty. To conclude, I therefore support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-658d12276c5cf663-430	Madam President, I would like Order and independence are part of our rule of law. It is extremely important that the courts and judges have the necessary powers to maintain order in the courtroom. Especially in small courts and in small courts, where security is not as high as in the large courts of major cities, prosecutors, plaintiffs and hearers testify to very sensitive and intimate situations with defendants, the witnesses of the opposite party and the audience of the other party. That is why it is very good that the government is putting forward proposals that victims and witnesses should be given the opportunity to participate via video and that judges should be able to expel persons from the courtroom. Beatrice Ask, former Minister of Justice of the Alliance Government between 2006 and 2014, initiated such an investigation already in 2014. Now we arrive at 2019. It has therefore taken five years for the Social Democratic-led government to present a strengthening of the Swedish courts and security in it. This is unfortunately another example in the line of the slowness of the Social Democratic-led government with regard to proposals for law and order. They take a very long time to come up with legislative proposals, and when they do, it is all that usually moderate proposals basically. In conclusion, we can say from a moderate point of view that, as usual, it is a bit late, but that, after all, the proposals that are now being made to strengthen the order of the courts are welcome.
i-658d12276c5cf663-433	Madam President, I would like We in Sweden have a legal process to be proud of. It is safe, independent and democratic. Yet we have a situation where we face increased uncertainty for victims and witnesses. Madam President, I would like When a victim takes the courage to file a complaint and pass justice on to justice, security and security in the courts is a must. You shouldn't feel threatened. You shouldn't be under pressure. There are too many stories about victims of violence, not least sexual crime, who cannot cope with the strain of meeting the perpetrator again. That is why the Center Party considers the proposal before us to be a good one. The possibility of videoconferencing is a good thing. The possibility of using side rooms is good. Reinforced protection against unauthorised photography is good. The most important thing about this report is that more crimes should be prosecuted. Crimes will be reduced, and we will have fewer victims in the future. I support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-658d12276c5cf663-436	Madam President, I would like The report concerns improved order and security in the courtroom. The aim of these legislative proposals is for courts to be safe and secure environments for everyone to stay in. Interrogators should be able to provide their information without feeling threatened, disturbed or under pressure. The proposals concern: . Savers and vulnerable victims and witnesses should be given greater opportunities to participate through videoconferencing. It shall be possible to refer to a side room for order or safety reasons. 中 A party or audience subjecting a person to pressure shall be able to be expelled from the courtroom during a hearing or other part of the sitting.
i-658d12276c5cf663-440	As a general rule, electronic equipment shall be switched off and tucked away. We Liberals believe that the proposals are important. Nevertheless, we would like to emphasise that in order for these legislative proposals to have the desired impact and for them to include all, it is important that they are linked to other important measures. I have attended many trials with children and young people, but also adults, who have been victims of various crimes. Many of these trials have included honor in the picture of the deed. Too often, when there is a lack of knowledge and understanding of the context in which these crimes occur, neither the vulnerable nor, as in this case, the witnesses receive the support they are entitled to and need. I believe that, despite this legislation, it is extremely important for the whole legal chain to know about these elements. It's about a collective. We talk many times about the subtle threats that occur. I think we are all aware that they exist, but the question is how we identify them and how we prevent them from being possible to present to, for example, a witness. It could be a look. But it is also a question of pressure outside the courtroom, in the courts' premises but before a trial, when witnesses have to meet with relatives of the suspected perpetrator. It is also about entering the courtroom and seeing the whole collective sit together on the side of the perpetrator. The young girl who is a victim is often sitting alone. Perhaps a friend of hers has taken courage and will testify to the information she has provided. In order to have access to the aid and protection at all, it is extremely important that we have this legislation, in which we can define honour as the motive for the act. It must, I mean, take place initially in the investigation, but also so that the measures we are talking about here can be taken. It's about education. I can feel that we too many times decide things and make good laws, but then it's like we sow them in a soil that's not fertile. You don't understand them. With regard to the legislation that has been decided on the current crime of marriage, we have an incredible number of complaints – and it is positive that we still feel that there is legislation and someone to protect – but only five convictions. What is interesting is that the same prosecutor is behind three of these five convictions. This indicates that the person with knowledge and competence is also much more capable. The police have set up a competence network for honour-related violence and repression. I think the prosecutors need something similar. They are the leaders of the preliminary investigations and can take a number of important measures. It is therefore important legislation and important changes, but I believe once again that, in order for things to be as we think, we also need to take a variety of other measures.
i-658d12276c5cf663-449	Madam President, I would like Conditional release must be reformed. It should be self-evident that the person convicted of a crime should be subject to most of the punishment that has been imposed. In fact, that is not always the case today. As a rule, one serving a fixed-term prison sentence is released conditionally after two thirds of the sentence period. For persons serving long prison sentences, this means that the sentence can be reduced by several years, which risks the fundamental principle that the sentence should be proportionate to the seriousness of the crime. On the part of the Moderates, we believe that parole should be limited and should only occur in exceptional circumstances. Nor should a person who violates the conditions of his release to such an extent that a warning is not deemed sufficient be able to benefit from the benefit of being released before the sentence is served. As late as 2015, the Riksdag addressed an announcement to the Government that the possibilities for parole should be tightened. Since then very little has happened. Today, this House is expected to once again address an announcement to the government on the need for reform of the conditional release system, in which we believe that greater account must be taken of the behaviour of the inmate during the sentence period. I look forward to the government returning to Parliament on this issue as soon as possible. Madam President, the proposal before us concerns certain measures to prevent the recurrence of conditional release. That's good, but it's not enough. Therefore, the Riksdag is expected today to also address an announcement to the Government about a clearer link between the lack of participation in relapse prevention measures and the issue of conditional release. We want the matter to be investigated urgently and for the government to return to Parliament with proposals to increase the possibility of postponing parole due to lack of participation in relapse prevention and other mismanagement during the institution period. More needs to be done, but as the government pulls its feet, we in Parliament continue to make sharp demands and put pressure on the government on this issue as well. We will continue to do so. We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 6 under paragraph 8.
i-658d12276c5cf663-456	Mr President, I would like to As early as 2015, the Committee on Justice addressed an announcement to the Red-Green Government to tighten the rules for conditional release. It was an announcement by the Swedish Democrats and the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Centers. The report reserved the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party, who felt that all prisoners should only spend two thirds of their sentenced time in prison, regardless of whether the inmate has misbehaved or refused to participate in treatment programmes. Now the government has reluctantly accepted the Swedish Democrats' tougher demands regarding the conditional release and proposed some tightening up. The conditional release after two-thirds should be possible to be postponed in case of mismanagement or lack of participation in treatment programmes. This is obviously a step in the right direction, but that is far from what the Swedish Democrats think is sufficient. Mr President, I would like to If the Swedish Democrats had been left entirely to decide for themselves, we would have completely removed the conditional release. If you are sentenced to ten years in prison, the basic rule is that you are allowed to spend ten years in prison. It is a clear and consistent approach that creates understanding and trust between citizens and the rule of law. This is the starting point of Sweden's democrats when it comes to how we should design penalties in our country. In order to then create a good reintegration into society, the Swedish Democrats want people to have their first time outside the institution regulated, for example by electronic supervision, to be forced into sound routines. But now we are not there; there is no support in the Riksdag for the attitude of the Swedish Democrats. But, Mr President, the Christian Democrats mention in one of their reservations, which has become a special opinion, what the Swedish Democrats also consider very urgent, namely that a hazard assessment should be made when deciding whether a person should be released conditionally after serving two thirds of his sentence. The Swedish Democrats believe that this is an obvious criterion for deferred release. If there is a high risk of recidivism, the Prison Service must be able to keep people in prison for the duration of the sentence. I believe that more parties fundamentally agree with this, but a majority is not currently prepared to support it. One of the reasons given for not taking into account the risk of relapse in the event of parole is that the risk of recurrence of a crime may persist even if the person has been allowed to spend the entire sentence period. For me and the Swedish Democrats, this is not an argument but an excuse to continue with a social-liberal penal policy. Here a collective opposition should be able to form a majority in the Riksdag so that dangerous individuals with a high risk of relapse can be held in prison throughout the sentence. There are far too many cases every year where people released after serving two thirds of their sentence have directly abused, murdered and raped innocent people. Mr President, I would like to Victims ask themselves how it can happen that dangerous individuals who may have a dozen serious convictions behind them are locked up only two thirds of the sentence period for another serious crime despite the fact that the Correctional Service considers that there is a high risk of relapse, which has proved to be justified too many times. Another part of the explanation supported by the government and several opposition parties is that a criterion such as the estimation of the risk of relapse is not based on actual actions and that persons convicted of the same type of crime would be in prison for different periods of time depending on how they behaved otherwise in prison. The inmates may then experience this as a little unfair. For the Swedish Democrats, I want to be clear: there should be no obvious right for anyone sentenced to prison to be released earlier for any reason whatsoever. That murderers and rapists may experience an injustice in the fact that others convicted of the same crime may be allowed to spend less time in prison is completely irrelevant. For this reason, I am going to ask here today for a reply to well-elected opposition parties to ensure that together we can contribute to a new announcement to the government that a high risk of recidivism can form the basis for deferred parole. The Swedish Democrats, as I said at the outset, have a completely different view on parole in general, but we believe it is urgent to move forward the positions as much as possible. I look forward in committee to finding more common positions that move the positions forward, not least when it comes to the issue of risk assessment in the case of conditional freedom. To conclude, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3, but we naturally support all our reservations in the report.
i-658d12276c5cf663-469	Mr President, I would like to We have before us an extremely important report. The essence of the report as a whole is to achieve a functioning chain of justice, where punishment should be effective and lead to improvement, i.e. that there should be few or no relapses. The Center Party thinks it is good that the government is now presenting this bill, and it is also good that the Riksdag strengthens it with two announcements – one on further strengthening of participation in relapse prevention should be a requirement for parole and one on further review of the conditional release system. So it should not be seen as automatic parole after two thirds of served time. Today's system, with the proposals in this proposal, provides extended opportunities and tools for the prison service to work with the individual's opportunities to re-established in society. It is a matter of parole, probation, supervision and special regulations. In all these areas, stronger measures and opportunities are now being put in place for prison services to do a good job. However, the Centre Party would have liked to see an even better opportunity for monitoring by means of a new sanction, a ban on residence, which goes beyond the possibilities available to keep the conditionally freed person away from criminal settings or, not least, from areas where victims are located. Mr President, I would like to Work and training to improve conditions in the labour market are of great importance, as the possibility of reintegration depends to a large extent on the ability of the inmate to come to work after the sentence has been served. The work line in the institutions therefore needs to be developed, and the opportunities for inmates to undergo training measures must be increased. For those inmates who do not participate in work, training or programme activities, it is now good that this can have consequences for their enforcement, for example in the form of suspended conditional release. The Center Party believes that the Prison Service's treatment program is central to enabling the inmate to leave a life lined with crime and drugs. In recent years, treatment programs have been developed in a positive direction and adapted to the clientele that will benefit from them. The aim should be for all inmates in need of treatment for crime, abuse, aggression or violent behaviour to undergo treatment programmes. In previous announcements to the Government, Parliament has demanded, among other things, that the Government strengthen the rules on conditional release for those who have relapsed in similar crime and that the Government consider whether offenders convicted of violent or sexual crimes should have an obligation to participate in appropriate treatment programmes. It is now time that, with this year's announcement, the government made sure to return to Parliament as soon as possible with proposals on this. There is a network called Kast, Buyer of Sexual Services, which, according to a well-developed method, works with people who have bought sex. We see this programme as a given that the Prison Service is subject to conditions for persons who are convicted of sexual offences or sex purchases in order for them to benefit from conditional release. One problem is that some inmates do not master the Swedish language. They often find it difficult to acquire or participate in different treatment programmes. More needs to be done here to ensure that this group can also participate in these programmes, receive adequate treatment and not relapse into crime. In conclusion, it is of the utmost importance that time in prison be clear and consistent for the inmate. Refusal to participate in relapse prevention and programmes shall lead to limited or deleted opportunities for leave and conditional release. An incentive to participate in treatment and programmes benefits everyone, not least by reducing the number of victims. I support the committee's proposal and also call for the approval of reservation 6 in the report.
i-658d12276c5cf663-480	Mr President, I would like to As I promised in my speech, I intend to ask a fairly clear and specific question about the conditional release, which is taking place automatically today, entirely regardless of whether you are taking part in treatment programmes or whether you are misbehaving in prison. After all, the government has come to the conclusion that a high risk of recidivism should not be the basis for deferred release. I am not sure that a majority in this House shares that view. I would therefore like to put a specific question to the Center Party on this: does the Center Party think that anyone who is considered by the Prison Service to be at high risk of recidivism should not, for this reason, be able to have his parole suspended? Is it a reasonable relationship that we have today, where people who are at high risk of recidivism can come out after two thirds of serving time?
i-658d12276c5cf663-483	Mr President, I would like to No, it doesn't make sense. However, I read in the report that, among other things, we should work with increased monitoring, electronic monitoring and so on. I also see that with the announcement that we are now making to the government, we can come back with proposals that improve the possibility of monitoring and that might in future – we will see – lead to limited release.
i-658d12276c5cf663-484	Mr President, I would like to That is a little bit what I am looking for – that we should be able to come up with common positions that go further than the government has announced. One of the positions where there is a conflict between the Swedish Democrats, the Christian Democrats and the Government is precisely that we believe that when there is a high risk of a person relapsing into crime one should be able to postpone the parole, while the government does not think there are enough reasons for it and that it can even be counterproductive. We believe that the encapsulation of dangerous individuals is an important step in securing society from dangerous individuals. Say that, for example, a terrorist receives a fixed-term sentence but that the Correctional Service says that there is a high risk of a relapse in crime. There may even have been signs that the person has the will and ability to commit new terrorist crimes. Is it reasonable, then, for the person to be released after two thirds of his sentence? No, I do not think so, and I want a clearer message from the Center Party: are you prepared to come back with a concrete motion, which points to this particular problem, that high risk of relapse should be a reason for postponed release – yes or no?
i-658d12276c5cf663-486	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party is prepared to contribute to all forms of improvement, so that criminals with a high risk of relapse have a limited opportunity to continue to practise crime. That's obvious. Whether it is to be done through exercise work in the Riksdag or through negotiations and pressure with today's announcement from the Riksdag remains to be seen. But of course, the Center Party is involved in all forms and ways of combating crime and ensuring that repeat offenders do not relapse into crime.
i-658d12276c5cf663-488	Mr President, I would like to I think there are many problems with today's legal debate. It swinges hard in all directions and prefers populism to realism. Today is the time for parole to get a boot. Now the picture is painted that the parole is a blank blanket for the inmates who can at any time be pulled away and put in the closet if the inmates are not doing well. In fact, parole is a necessity for us to have a society without crime – a safer society in which people who have long had a criminal life now will prove to us that they can behave. The parole ensures that the Prison Service has control of people released from prisons – with monitoring, conversations and continued treatment. If they don't behave, they'll go back to jail. It's just a parole. The alternative is that sentenced persons are in prison and that they, hip as a happy person, when the sentence is served, are outside the prison with an Icakasse in their hands and without contact with the Prison Service. I would like to see the politician who can look a victim in the eye and say: The rapist was released from prison. Now we have no control of him at all, for we did not want to wade with parole, but he would sit the whole penalty. All supervision and control and, above all, the security of the victim will disappear if the conditional release is removed. Mr President, I would like to Several parties seem to want to remove the parole. It is probably time to remind us of what the parole is and why it exists. When a sentenced person has served two thirds of his or her prison sentence, he or she shall be released on probation unless there are exceptional reasons. So there is a review of whether parole is to take place. After release, there is a probationary period corresponding to what remains of the sentence, at least one year. If there are exceptional grounds for parole, it may be postponed. When assessing whether there are particular grounds for conditional release, account shall be taken in particular of whether the sentenced person has seriously infringed the rules and conditions governing enforcement. When the person is to be released conditionally, the care provider decides whether the person should have supervision. A parole officer is a person from the parole office who will support the person and help the person to re-integrate into society. Calls will be made with a parole inspector throughout the monitoring period. These are conversations that focus on the person not to relapse into crime. The Supervisory Board may decide whether to comply with regulations during the parole period. They can do so if they feel that regulations help the person to adapt to society and not to relapse into crime. The Supervisory Board can decide where the person should live, what the person should do during the days and whether the person should undergo a treatment. I wonder why it is such an eagerness to restrict parole. In what way is it a better solution to begin to erode it? In what way does the removal of all relapse prevention reduce crime and recidivism? How does this make it better for the victim when the perpetrator is put on the street without any kind of control from the Prison Service? In what way does this improve at all Swedish prison services? The Left Party believes that the parole should remain. It can be improved in many areas, including with an extended care system. It's supposed to be tough being on parole. You're supposed to be good, and it's a tough surveillance that's supposed to happen. The government has presented a good bill, which the Committee on Justice is doing its best to undermine. In the end, only the Left Party fully supports the bill, which becomes a rather strange order. I will therefore not ask for any reservation, Mr President, even if the Left Party has two reservations about the two declarations made by the committee. It is not my job to defend government policy. They'll have to do that on their own.
i-658d12276c5cf663-503	Mr President, I would like to In today's debate, we highlight enhanced relapse prevention in the event of parole. A functioning judicial society requires that those who break the law be prosecuted and punished. It is important that society's legal system imposes punishment when a crime has taken place. The time when the sentence is served shall be used in a meaningful way by means of actions that enable a life without crime. The Christian Democrats believe that people who do not behave in prison should not be released conditionally – this should only happen after the entire sentence has expired. It creates incentives to comply with existing rules, to participate in treatment programmes and to carry out the drug tests that are being asked to do. To this end, changes should be considered as regards the possibility of conditional freedom. It is not reasonable that those who relapse into similar crime and are automatically again sentenced should be released conditionally after two thirds of the prison sentence imposed. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats believe that the principle of automatic conditional release after the sentenced person has served two thirds of his sentence is completely wrong. Conditional release shall be granted to persons who deserve it, persons who have demonstrated a genuine willingness to re-integrate by, for example, their behaviour, by training or by undergoing treatment against abuse or other problematic behaviour. Only then will parole be discussed, and this will only happen after three quarters of the sentence has been served. Today, there are twice as many reasons in the Criminal Code for relief of punishment as there are in the Penal Code. It's sending the wrong signal. As I mentioned, repeat offenders should serve a time in prison that fully corresponds to the penalty value of the offence or offences for which they have been convicted. However, time in prison should be followed by a period during which the inmate is given the opportunity to re-integrate into a life of freedom. For a long time now, there has been an announcement for the government to tighten the rules for parole. The Christian Democrats call on the government to implement it as soon as possible. The Christian Democrats' motions state that the conditional release system is an unsatisfactory regime that undermines the principle that punishment should be proportionate to the seriousness of the crime. Limiting the possibility of parole increases proportionality. It prevents new crimes from being committed by convicted persons and at the same time strengthens the legitimacy of the judiciary. Our proposal does not remove the incentives to return to crime provided by the conditional release, but will have to consist, to a significant extent, of anything other than a reduced sentence period. However, we in the Christian Democrats are now prepared to refrain from making a full reservation in favour of our party-specific motions and instead support the announcements proposed by a large majority in committee. It is therefore a question of reforming the conditional release system. Mr President, I would like to I think it is a good thing that the majority of the committee has agreed on the wording of changing today's system, in which we have, in principle, an automatic release, and that the automatic release after two thirds of the sentence should be abolished. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to highlight two other proposals that we would like to see implemented. As has been mentioned earlier, there are proposals to forfeit conditional freedom in neglect. We believe that parole should be restricted. Like what has been said during the consultation of the Government's proposal, we believe that the scope of the conditionally granted freedom proposed should be significantly increased. This is illustrated in reservation 5. Mr President, I would like to Together with other parties, we also want to introduce a new penalty. In order to combat criminal groups, we want, together with these other parties, to impose a ban on residence as a new sanction. A stay ban could be imposed on persons who have committed crimes and are associated with criminal groups. A stay ban means a ban on staying in a particular geographical area for a certain period of time after serving a prison sentence. We see this as a way of breaking the power of the criminal gangs and of making fewer return to their old environments. An infringement of a restraining order shall be punishable. Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Christian Democrats support the committee's announcement and our reservations, but for time to come, I only call for reservation 5.
i-658d12276c5cf663-519	Mr President, I would like to I listened to Ingemar Kihlström's speech and reservations. The Christian Democrats clearly want to go another way with the conditional release. That surprises me, because Ingemar Kihlström talks so much about control. I also believe that you, like the Left Party, share the view that one must as well be motivated in order to be able to break one's criminal behaviour, and that motivation is obtained through cbt treatment during the prison period. What surprises me is that you are completely letting go of the control of the released one after the person has come out of the prison. I would therefore like to ask Ingemar Kihlström how victims can feel more secure through the Christian Democrats' policy, where monitoring of those who come out of the prison is much shorter than it is today. During the parole period, it's surveillance, controls, drug tests, and conversations with parole. That control and that time the Christian Democrats want to reduce quite substantially, which means that the victims will ultimately be much more insecure because one will not know where the released person is anywhere.
i-658d12276c5cf663-523	Mr President, I would like to That's correct. You can see it as shortening the monitoring time. What we do is rather turn around in the way we see it. Today it is an automatic release after two thirds of the sentence. We have many situations where, for example, an assessment is not made based on how the person who has been admitted has followed treatment programs to re-enter society. It can be quite serious crimes that have been committed, and you still get out into society after two thirds of the time. We want to see it as a way of serving the sentence that is being imposed. If when you serve the sentence you meet up with the treatment programs that are being set up, do drug tests and so on, then you should be able to be tested for a conditional release. We therefore want to give legitimacy to the victims of crime by ensuring that the sentences imposed on them on the basis of the crimes committed are actually served and that those who face a treatment programme can also be tested for parole.
i-658d12276c5cf663-527	Mr President, I would like to I find it difficult to see that shorter supervision of a person coming out of a prison secures something for the victim at all. I also find it a little remarkable that Ingemar Kihlström considers himself to have better knowledge of relapse prevention principles and of extraordinary reasons than the Prison Service itself has when making an assessment in each individual case whether a person should be released on parole. I am absolutely convinced that it is not we politicians who have this knowledge, but it is the staff of the Prison Service – a staff that I trust very much, that knows everything about criminal behaviour and knows how important crime prevention work is. It is also incredibly important that this is followed up by monitoring and by the control that takes place during the parole period, which the Christian Democrats want to pull away the carpet for. I find it very difficult to understand this approach to justice policy. There is already an incredible amount of control of people who are to be released on parole today, but you want to remove this. You need to find a different approach. This is going to make the situation for the victims incredibly much worse. It may also increase relapses in crime, for it is precisely this long time that is needed for people to change their behaviour. I think you are quite unanswered to the victims of crime and the tough situation they find themselves in when a person is released from prison.
i-658d12276c5cf663-534	Mr President, I would like to I note that in committee we have a broad consensus. The fact that I and Mr Westerlund do not share the view is not news to many people. We can say that we Christian Democrats put the victims of crime at the centre of our attention in that we believe that the sentences that are being imposed should also be served and that one should deserve to be paroled. I'm not buying a two-thirds sentence. Then let's not tighten things up the right way. We also do not see the victims who are affected when someone who has committed a serious crime and does not face up to treatment is still released after two thirds. We note that the committee has a relatively large consensus on the matter and that the honourable Member and I do not have a consensus.
i-658d12276c5cf663-537	Mr President, I would like to As I said at the outset in my speech, I intend to put the question to the relevant opposition parties regarding precisely the conditional release and what the Christian Democrats have mentioned in their particular opinion as an assessment of danger. After all, we landed in an announcement that the government has admittedly accepted that participation in treatment programmes and mismanagement in prison could be two reasons for postponing conditional release. There are also a lot of answers in the report about why the government does not want a hazard assessment to be the basis for deferred conditional release. My question to the Christian Democrats is therefore, despite the answer contained in the report on the risk assessment, whether the Christian Democrats will continue to push this issue this autumn and re-exercise it so that together we can create a broader consensus, perhaps together with more parties, that a danger assessment of inmates may lead to suspended parole. Do you stand by that position and will you continue to pursue it together with the Swedish Democrats this autumn?
i-658d12276c5cf663-540	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Marttinen for the question, and I can calm the honourable Member: we in the Christian Democrats are sticking to the line we have taken in the past. We also see that it is important to consider the issue of hazard assessment when we are now going to deal with it. We will come back with further motions on this issue. I can therefore note that we have a consensus in committee on parole and that there is a consensus with the Swedish Democrats in many respects.
i-658d12276c5cf663-542	Mr President, I would like to Liberals regard it as extremely positive that all parties, except the Left Party, have now supported the Liberals' motion that the general principle of conditional release from prison after two thirds of the sentence should be removed and address two announcements to the government. Today, the sentenced person normally has a right to conditional release when at least two thirds of the prison sentence has been served. For this not to apply, extreme reasons are required, which normally means that the sentenced person has been grossly misbehaved in prison. Otherwise, the sentenced person is released conditionally after two thirds of the sentence period – even if he or she has misbehaved or refused to participate in treatment programmes, training or other rehabilitation activities. In practice, a six-year prison sentence is usually automatically a four-year prison sentence, which we consider to be a strange order. It is positive behaviour that should be rewarded, and there should be the possibility of parole. Behavior that clearly shows that the individual has zero understanding of his/her own responsibility for the actions that led to his/her conviction and shows no interest in participating in change work, but rather destroys for himself and others should not be rewarded, but such sentenced persons should serve their full sentence in prison. When parole after two thirds of the time becomes something that the sentenced person can almost automatically look forward to, there is no driving force for the individual to change a destructive pattern of action. We Liberals believe that parole should instead be something desirable and something that can be accessed through good conduct. Reversing the current principle will hopefully justify participating in the relevant treatment programmes. The rules should be tightened so that parole after two thirds of the sentence period is an option, not a right. For example, a person who has committed serious violent or sexual crimes must be required to participate in a treatment programme in order to have a conditional early release. The role of the penal services is twofold, which we Liberals consider to be extremely important. On the one hand, the sentenced person should serve his or her sentence, and on the other hand, the person who committed a crime should be given the opportunity to have a second chance and the right conditions to return to a functioning life without crime. Getting people to break with a criminal lifestyle is an extremely important task for the penitentiary. However, for this to be possible, it is important that treatment programmes are available in all the country's institutions. It is also important that they are adapted to the individual's needs. We also find it extremely surprising that in a secular state it is easier to have access to a priest or an imam than to a curator or a psychologist. There is a lack of programmes for certain groups. For example, according to the Correctional Service, there is still limited research on the perpetrators of honour violence and repression. The Correctional Service has conducted its own research study comparing honour violence convicted to other groups of violent offenders. The researchers have looked at all sentences for more than 6,000 violent offenders who served a sentence on March 1, 2016. Correctional services believe that this is a first step towards improving the knowledge of perpetrators of honour-related crimes. Among other things, the study shows that there are few similarities with the group that is convicted of partner violence. It can then be strongly questioned whether it is relevant to use the treatment programs that are designed to meet individuals convicted of partner violence in cases where an individual is convicted of a crime that has honorary motives. It is important that the Prison Service is given the task of adapting and developing programmes suitable for this target group as well. The Liberals are also in favour of the proposals for legislative amendments submitted by the Government, which aim to strengthen the possibilities for the Prison Service to take control and support measures in respect of those who are released conditionally from a prison sentence. There is a need to reinforce the relapse prevention measures that can be decided upon after parole. We therefore welcome the proposals put forward. I support Mr L.'s reservation 6.
i-658d12276c5cf663-555	Mr President, I would like to Juno Blom! You said in your speech that parole is something you can automatically look forward to. That makes me a little surprised because there is no automatic at all in the conditional release. In fact, there are quite extensive checks that are carried out before a person is released on parole. You check if the person in question has complied with the applicable conditions during the period of the institution, undergone treatment and so on and if there is any risk of relapse into a crime. I therefore wonder how the parole is automatic in your opinion. I would also like to ask a question about the safety and safety of victims. Tell them we're starting to flinch on the parole, which seems to be the motives of the Liberals in the whole thing-- the parole is going to go away; it's going to be shorter and shorter. This makes the Prison Service's control over the one released from the prison less and less. If we completely remove parole, there will be no surveillance, no control and no contact with the Correctional Service for the frigid. This means that the victim will know that the person is released into the street with Icakassen, and the Swedish authorities have no contact with that person. I would like to know the Liberals' opinion as to how it will be better for the victims of crime to remove the conditional release, which you seem to want.
i-9bq6huyNNCagu6PpDxc5EG	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Linda. I'm thinking of question two, which concerns the victims. You say they'll feel insecure. It is important to look at the proposal as a whole. We also address all those actively involved in treatment programmes and show interest in changes. Many times I can think that they get redress, because if we are to be honest, it is a failure on the part of society that so many are convicted of crime – above all so many young people. Anyone actively involved in this will have access to parole. Those who should not have access to this are those who have shown no interest whatsoever in participating in different treatment programmes. This is not the same as the fact that the Prison Service does not have a responsibility during the time a person is in an institution. The difference once the person comes out, we'll know, too. The fact that the Correctional Service is supposed to keep track is not the same as the frivolous one not committing crimes. The victim's perspective is another part. Victims of rape or, as in our case, children and young people who are victims of serious crimes may feel that it is a betrayal that their lives may be destroyed in their entirety while the person who committed the crime is released, perhaps too lightly. Before the time is up, I have to come to your first question about this automatic release. The principle is that you should have done pretty serious things to not get parole. As a result, if the correctional services are going to do anything, they should go in there and say, "You haven't done any good." In the reverse order, we would create the opportunity to define something positive that you know when you come in. The people I've met in prison take this for granted. It is not said that it believes that it may come out after six years, but four years is the principle. That's the feeling you have.
i-658d12276c5cf663-566	I would remind both speakers that we are trying to speak through the President and not to say to each other.
i-3978941cd85d3b40-0	I'm so sorry. You want me to look at you or what? ) You can look wherever you want, as long as you don't tell the co-debater.
i-658d12276c5cf663-568	Mr President, I would like to I am surprised when Juno Blom bases his policy on various experiences that Juno Blom has heard in different institutions. I think it is better to base our policies on how things actually are. I believe, however, that we agree that the treatment programmes are extremely important. Training in institutions is also important. There I would like to see more possibilities for primary education but also for higher education, something that the Prison Service has now started to pull in and sometimes does not offer at all. I think we have a large and important area to develop there. Mr President, I would like to I still do not think I have an answer to what Juno Blom means by the fact that one can automatically look forward to parole. There is no automaticity in the parole, but there is a trial to see if there will be parole or not. I do not think that we politicians have the skills to see it, but it is the personnel of the Prison Service who have that competence. My second question, Mr President, is about treatment programmes. The Left Party has exercised that we want to see a treatment program for honour violence. Those who have committed honour violence may not fit into the usual ROS program for those who have committed sexual or other violent crimes. We want to see a special program for honor-related violence. Mr President, I would like to I would like to know how the Liberals view it.
i-658d12276c5cf663-575	Mr President, I would like to I'm so used to looking into the eyes of people I'm talking to, but I'll try to work on it! When it comes to automatic release, the basic principle is that it will be that way. This is more about a change of attitude. We believe that if you have been sentenced to six years in prison, the principle that there could be a shorter sentence should be that you have achieved something that shows change. I think it's important to get that asset. The word auxiliaries can be perceived as misleading. In the majority of all cases, it is still the way it is going to be. It could be the reverse order, so that one should judge who has done well and who is not doing well, but here it becomes somewhere a much more difficult part where one says that someone should not be allowed to do this. I believe in the principle that you should have your punishment as it is but that you should be able to be given the opportunity for a shortened penalty given that there is an activity when you participate in the programs. Treatment programmes concerning those convicted of honour crimes are something that we will push forward and try to find. The Prison Service is now conducting interviews to build on the study. The idea here was more a quantitative study, and now you go in and do a qualitative study. I think that is important, so that you can see what would actually be needed. You can also look at if there is anything in other countries to use. We support this idea and definitely believe that the prison service is a place where you should sit because you have committed a crime, but it should also be an opportunity for change. That is the most positive thing we can come up with.
i-658d12276c5cf663-581	Mr President, I would like to As may be shown, I'm fishing a little after a possible new announcement. Following the Christian Democrats' announcement that the principle of making a hazard assessment is supported, I can say one down, two to go. – If the Liberals and the Moderates do the same, we have a possible majority in this House. I would therefore like to ask whether we can get a message from the Liberals on the issue of hazard assessment as well. Should it be the case that a person who is considered by the prison service to be at high risk of recidivism should be able to have his or her parole suspended in order to secure society from dangerous individuals? Is it a position that the Liberals can support, and is it a position that causes the Liberals to exercise on this matter in the autumn together with the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats?
i-658d12276c5cf663-583	Mr President, I would like to If I understand you correctly, Adam Marttinen, you're thinking that this is a person who's been through the programs and who's been doing himself during his time in the penitentiary system-- otherwise there can't be any question of parole. It is therefore a person who has gone through everything and who has contributed and participated, but it is still judged that there is a high risk of relapse into crime. It is clear that this is difficult, because these are, once again, questions of assessment. Who assesses who is at high risk of recidivism? You can sit on treatment programs without having been treated at all. You can go to education without learning anything, but you sit there and neither disturb nor destroy. Now I don't own my own limited company and can't decide what to do or not to do in the fall. I am thinking, however, that we should find other ways to motivate the person to change. Is there something you don't understand in that meeting? Should it turn out that we have an individual who we know is deemed to be at high risk of relapsing into crime, we might consider looking at that possibility, but I absolutely cannot say here and now that we are going to submit any such exercise. The principle itself is important; then there are difficulties in assessing matters. I believe, once again, that it is generally about how the Prison Service can make clearer and better efforts. I thought it would be easier to find an imam or a priest than to find a counselor or a psychologist. It is a question of taking a variety of measures, but one can certainly also look at that possibility.
i-658d12276c5cf663-589	Mr President, I would like to It is well described in the report as the line of conflict between the red-green parties and us in opposition who have exercised and expressed support for the principle. This is an issue of assessment, and this is what the government considers to be an uncertainty as to why a person should or should not remain in office. The government wants to base the suspended parole on actual events, non-participation in a treatment program or misbehaving – things that can be documented. When it comes to a high risk of a relapse in a crime, it is not possible to document or to ensure that the person will relapse into a crime. However, it has been shown that many – far too many – individuals who have been judged by the prison service to be at high risk of relapse have also relapsed after serving two thirds of their sentence. Just as Juno Blom said in a previous shift of lines, it is incomprehensible to citizens in the country why dangerous people should be released and be able to commit new crimes, as they often do. After all, it becomes completely incomprehensible to the victims of crime and to the relatives of those who have been killed by these people. How can society release a dangerous individual when one has a strong indication that the person will commit serious violent crimes? I think, as many other parties have said, that it should not be a right to be paroled after two thirds of the time, but should be a starting point. An exception should be if you are part of a treatment program or similar, but if it is the case that the person of the penitentiary is considered a dangerous individual, it is corrupt to release the person already after it has served two thirds of the sentence. It is not only a competence but also an important purpose. The question must well live on within the Liberals. I hope that we can also get support from the Liberals and that we can create a new announcement on this matter, not least for all victims who are at risk of getting hurt otherwise.
i-658d12276c5cf663-595	Mr President, I would like to We are talking here about what to do when people are condemned. That is quite natural, because that is what the report is about. However, I think it is important to also bear in mind that the most important measures – and I think that we have failed – are what early action we are putting in. Somewhere it is that we could have identified a great many of those who commit serious crimes much earlier. I think it is important that, even when we talk about this, we think about how we can change and influence. I would also like to say that I think that in general we have a far too bad perspective on children's rights in our country, which leads to children growing up and landing in vulnerability and crime. This is an important measure on the part of the Liberals. Speaking of that, as you were on, Adam Marttinen, it is not simply to judge who is at high risk of relapse, I sometimes think that it is difficult for a person who has not even admitted that it has committed the crime it has actually committed to come to a change. There is a lack of participation in programmes. I also believe that there is a need to be able to sit and talk to people individually about what you have experienced – which is not a defence but many times perhaps an explanation for what you then expose others to – in order to come to the conclusion of taking in and acknowledging the deed you have actually committed. When you don't even get there, I can see that these are difficult questions of judgment. How much have you changed if you may not even have admitted that what you have done is wrong? This is definitely the case when it comes to those who commit crimes of honour. This is also done many times at the request of someone else; it may not even be that you would have wanted to do this yourself. We have found it difficult to understand the break-up processes that young people, as well as the elderly, can be subjected to. That is why we must strengthen this capacity.
i-658d12276c5cf663-600	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Government's proposal and the proposal in the report of the Committee on Justice to strengthen the criminal justice system and the prevention of relapses and on measures relating to conditional release. The amendments include an extension of the probation period after conditional release and an extension and clarification of the possibility to lay down conditions on what will apply after the conditional release. Similarly, there should be a clearer link between participation in relapse prevention and conditional release. That is something that was also expressed in the Government Declaration in January. It is also proposed that the Prison Service should be able to take a decision on the electronic monitoring of the frivolous person in order to verify compliance with a regulation. The Government's proposals broadly follow the proposals of the so-called release investigation. Mr President, I would like to To get to know people's stories and experiences but also opinions is an important part of my and our mission as elected representatives. It is man who is the important thing. She may be a victim of crime and may have been the victim of a crime or be a relative of a convicted person. It is a group of people that we do not talk about or have in mind. These are people on the inside and outside of walls, in detention centres, in prisons, in prisons, employees and inmates, people in civil society – always man. And I am grateful to meet people who share their lives and experiences with me. They really touch me in depth. Although there may be a lot of grief and tragedy in the individual, it is an invitation to me and to us to use these experiences to develop, change and hopefully also improve the work of the penitentiary. We must have a strong judicial system in which people have confidence. Those who commit crimes shall take responsibility for their actions through various sanctions in a system of penalties based on proportionality and equal treatment. Equally important is the social interest in effectively preventing the recurrence of crime. Even a small reduction in relapses is important in reducing the effects of first and foremost human suffering, but also the economic costs for society and individuals involved in crime. The prevention of recurrence of crime is thus an important part of the execution of prison sentences. In the bill, the Government considers that a regime should not be introduced that would mean that the risk of recurrence of serious crime would affect the time of parole. This is also the assessment of the investigation, and it is shared in principle by all consultation bodies. The reasons for this are the requirements of predictability and equal treatment and the difficulty of making reliable risk assessments that do not open up to arbitrariness and social discrimination. Particularly low is the accuracy of the risk of relapse into serious crime. For each inmate, the Prison Service draws up, on the basis of a risk and safety assessment, an individual enforcement plan that focuses on measures against, among other things, recurrence of a crime. Planning is done in consultation with the inmate. A risk assessment should not guide the sentence period in prison but instead serve as a basis for other relapse prevention efforts. By putting the sentenced person's behaviour in focus and that this should form the basis for postponing parole, it provides better conditions to meet the demands of predictability and legitimacy. Therefore, there is a need for a clearer link between participation in relapse prevention and care during enforcement and conditional release. If the inmate opposes the measures or fails to implement the plan, it should, as in the case of other mismanagement, form the basis for postponing the conditional release. In this way, the issue of conditional release is based on actual and documented circumstances to be taken into account in further handling. However, this needs to be examined in particular and supplemented by a basis for decision. It is also something that the government intends to do.
i-658d12276c5cf663-610	Mr President, I would like to It is highly involuntary that the government is prepared to take the action to postpone the conditional release. This reserved the red-green parties against 2015, when, in opposition to the last parliamentary term, we created an announcement, so do not try to imagine anyone here that this is some sort of social democratic understanding that it is reasonable to be able to postpone the conditional release. It is the result of an announcement made by the opposition and to which the government has to adapt. However, it is no secret that the Swedish Democrats are somewhat frustrated that they choose to take small steps in the right direction each time we create a new announcement in the Committee on Justice and that sometimes they do nothing at all. We were told in the speech here that the reasons for choosing not to take into account the risk assessment in a suspended conditional release are precisely predictability and equal treatment. Thus, if two terrorists are convicted of the same type of terrorist offence, but one of them is very dangerous and risks reoccurring in crime, the Social Democrats take into account that the other terrorist, who may not have a high risk of relapse, is allowed to spend less time in prison. They choose not to consider at all whether the person is dangerous or not, but to be released conditionally after two thirds of the sentence served. In many cases, we have seen unfortunate examples of how the fear of a high risk of relapse has also become a reality for very many victims and their relatives. It is regrettable that the Social Democrats always do too little, always do too late and never put the victims first. It's just a statement, maybe not a question.
i-658d12276c5cf663-615	Mr President, I would like to This is about putting the victims at the centre. But it is also an effective prison service that has a good business and can also work to strengthen social protection and create the conditions for people who commit crimes to get help and support to leave the criminal path. It's not weird at all. Adam Marttinen is well aware that Parliament has an announcement, and that is what much of the work we are discussing today focuses on. An investigation raised these issues, and the bill also states very clearly what Adam Marttinen is addressing. I don't think that's weird. Rather, I think it is the duty of the Swedish democrats to explain how risk assessments can be carried out regarding who is to remain and who can be subject to parole. There is really nothing in the criminological research that clearly shows that the risk assessments are reliable, so I think it is the duty of the Swedish Democrats to explain how to deal with this.
i-658d12276c5cf663-619	Mr President, I would like to As has been mentioned before, it is not written in stone that a high risk of relapse in crime also leads to a relapse in crime, but it has turned out that in very many cases it leads to relapse in crime. That is precisely the big problem in this context. Are you prepared to allow a whole category of individuals who have a high risk of relapse in crime to remain in prison and not to take the chance that some of them would not relapse into crime if they were released? Are we prepared to make that priority? Yes, I'm prepared to make that priority. This principle is not entirely alien to the Social Democrats either. In forensic psychiatry, for example, there is something called a special discharge test. Thus, an assessment is made of a person's danger and ability to relapse into crime before he is discharged from forensic psychiatry. It is not a strange principle at all, but it should be able to be implemented directly into the work of the penitentiary. However, in this report we are discussing the conditional release and whether it is reasonable to release dangerous individuals into society after only two thirds of the sentence has been served and to risk these people committing new crimes – when we could have had an incapacitation effect where they are kept off the street and from the possibility of committing new crimes. In this case, the Social Democrats do not defend the victims of crime, but rather the principle of equal treatment and that no inmates should feel offended by having been wrongly judged in their assessment of danger. Those are facts.
i-658d12276c5cf663-624	Mr President, I would like to I assume that Mr Marttinen has read the release investigation and other documents in this context. It is clearly stated here that, in order for an extension of the execution in prison to have a recurrence prevention effect even after release, it should also reasonably be demonstrated that the execution in prison is effective. The main conclusions drawn from existing research are that the length of time in prison does not seem to have a positive recurrence prevention effect compared to freedom enforcement. I think we should base policy on science and proven experience. It is also about being able to have two thoughts in your head at the same time: those convicted of crime should be punished for it, but we must also ensure that they are helped and supported to be able to leave the crime behind. Adam Marttinen said in his introductory speech that the Swedish Democrats have a completely different view on these issues. It's obvious. We Social Democrats have a policy of both demanding responsibility and punishment and helping another life. Our policy is not based on locking people up and throwing away the key.
i-658d12276c5cf663-627	Mr President, I would like to What an important debate on parole we are having right now in this House! I note that the Left Party clearly states in its speeches that it is opposed to tightening up the conditional release. It is perhaps not entirely surprising because an interview has also underlined that one is in favour of sentences in freedom. On the other hand, the Moderates welcome the fact that these tightenings and tightenings are being carried out, but that is not enough as usual. We want a reform that provides for three quarters of the sentence to be served instead of the government's proposal for stricter measures but still conditional release after two thirds of the sentence has been served. I also note that some of the parties on the left on the political scale are talking about the victims of crime and how they would react to stricter penalties and stricter demands for parole. Then I have to bring up Örebroman. He is considered one of Sweden's worst serial rapists. He cycled after women, abused them severely, and then raped them. He was sentenced to 12 years in prison and was released after eight years because, as I see it, we have an automatic parole after two thirds of the sentence has been served. Why are parties to the left of the middle so inclined to defend serious serial rapists? At the same time, they have the nerve to say that victims would lose if we tighten our parole. Ask Örebroman's victims if they think it is good that he is released after eight years instead of twelve or ten. When we discuss parole, it is not just a re-assessment. It is also about the parties' basic view of the punishment and the function of the punishment. The Moderates have long felt that the penalties in Sweden are not sufficiently proportionate to the seriousness of the crime. The parole is, of course, an indication and a political assessment of the seriousness of crime and of the punishment in relation to the crime that has been committed. Therefore, unlike the government parties Social Democrats and the Green Party, the Moderates want to go further and reform the parole so that they are released only after serving three quarters of the sentence. Furthermore, repeat offenders should not be able to be released on parole at all.
i-658d12276c5cf663-635	Mr President, I would like to You can't help it when Louise Meijer so nicely offers you a line. I always appreciate talking about the big difference between the evidence-based policy of the Left Party and the policy of the Moderates based on something else. I have not just talked in the media about punishment in freedom. I have regularly exercised in the Swedish Parliament because the relapse risk for those who have a prison sentence of up to one year is 70 per cent. If you are sentenced to a sentence of about a year or so, the risk of relapsing into crime is huge. Then we can either push our foreheads against the wall over and over again or do something else. I think that we should do something else and design a system in which people who are sentenced to short prison sentences get their sentences free of electronic surveillance. I also think parole is a good thing. It is tested whether the person can be paroled, there is supervision and it is a probationary period. It's just a parole, not a guaranteed release. As I have repeatedly said during the debate, it is a matter of maintaining control and of contact between the prison services, the monitoring committees and the monitors with people who go from a longer sentence in prison to freedom. There must be tough demands here. Without the parole, there is no incentive to make demands on a person and monitor it if it does not behave. This ultimately affects the victim. A victim should be able to know that the person sentenced to punishment for the crime will be monitored when it comes out. That's a good way to design the justice system.
i-658d12276c5cf663-641	Mr President, I would like to Linda Snecker mentions that Left Party politics is based on evidence. I argue that it is rather based on a valuation that punishment has no effect at all and that it is a mistake in society's repressive policy. I believe that this is not true. Punishment has an effect, and some research shows that punishment leads to a reduction in crime, not least when criminals are incapacitated. Linda Snecker claims that with our proposal, post-release surveillance would disappear. That's not true. If parole is reformed so that one is released during a later part of the sentence, monitoring must of course be adjusted so that wind is not released by wave. The Moderates are for more surveillance. It is great if even the Left Party can agree to the Moderate line and both tighten up the parole and ensure that the monitoring time is longer. The problem here is not that the Left Party is saying this because it is protecting the victims. It is not the case that the Left Party defends the parole on account of the victims of crime, but this is based on a valuation idea that punishment has no effect or effect. You do not want to see punishment, because that is the political, ideological view you have. We're saying it's wrong.
i-658d12276c5cf663-645	Mr President, I would like to I am not surprised that we have different ideological views – we can fully agree on that. My opinion and assessment, as Louise Meijer calls it, I share with the Prison Service. In many parts of their prison policy, the Left Party is based on what the Correctional Service assumes: that the punishment, when given, should be substantial and that one should be able to receive education, treatment and help to break the criminal behavior because one should get better out. We share this with the Prison Service. When I talk to the Prison Service's management, they also ask for other forms of punishment. We need to increase the scope of how we view penalties in Sweden today, because the vision is too narrow. We need to look out and see what has been done in other countries which, for example, have overcrowded their prisons and which have raised the penalties but have not received lower criminality because of this, because there is no evidence that higher penalties lead to lower criminality. In other countries, there has been a move to have penalties free of electronic control. It is not a question of whether but when we will be forced to implement this policy, and there the Left Party takes precedence. Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Louise Meijer, who often talks about longer sentences. One must definitely think that it is a policy that can be pursued, but what you never talk about, Louise Meijer, is: What should the punishment contain? What new treatment programs do you want to see? Should you have both primary and tertiary education? What work should be done? What do you mean when you say that there should be a work line in the institutions because they must not compete with companies in terms of jobs and production? Talk more about the content of the punishment and not just about the length!
i-658d12276c5cf663-649	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Linda Westerlund Snecker that we should have a broader view of punishment – we do not dispute that. As far as the work line in the institutions is concerned, I cannot imagine that the Left Party thinks that institutional salaries should compete with other Swedish workers' wages, because then we would have seen a drastic reduction in wages in the Swedish labour market. I have not heard this policy before that the Left Party represents. I think, of course, that you should train and have access to the education systems in the institutions, and so do you. Training – including vocational programmes – is perhaps the most important tool for obtaining a job after serving a sentence. At the moment, work is under way to review rehabilitation programmes in the prisons of the Prison Service, such as the programme dealing with violence in close relationships, which even proved to have a negative effect on the risk of relapse. I welcome this work. I believe that we need more evidence when it comes to rehabilitation programmes and also need to look at whether, for example, they should really be voluntary. When it comes to the stricter requirements and that you can make international outlooks, as Linda Westerlund Snecker said, we can go to our neighbours and look at Denmark, Finland, Norway and Iceland. All these countries have stricter requirements for assessing whether or not to be released on parole. I think this is a good thing. I do not think that Denmark, Finland, Norway or Iceland are in any way in breach of the principles of the rule of law or the like, but they take care and risk into account when releasing them. I think this is a good thing.
i-658d12276c5cf663-653	Mr President, I would like to I am continuing my journey with my individual question on parole and the assessment of danger, as the Christian Democrats have mentioned. I do not think I received a really good response from the Moderates in either the first or the second speech on the individual issue, but overall I agree with Louise Meijer very much in the description of the conflict of values that exists here in Parliament between parties on the liberal left and more conservative parties. Punishment is important, perhaps not always for the one who has been convicted – that it will have a better life – but it is important for the victims. This side is completely missing from the red-greens when we debate these issues. How does it feel to a victim when a perpetrator or perpetrator is deemed to be dangerous by the Prison Service and then is allowed to serve two thirds of the sentence that has been imposed? It is clear that there is an enormous blow to the stomach of the victims of crime, but this does not seem to the parties of the Left Cartel to understand anything at all. There's some kind of lack of empathy there, I have to say. The issue of hazard assessment I think must live on. We have different points of view. Three quarters will be served according to the Moderates, we want to abolish it and so on. But I see a way forward to move forward the positions as there is another party, the Christian Democrats, proposing that the assessment of danger should be included in the question of whether a person should be on parole or not. Can the Moderates consider showing support for this particular issue and, in accordance with the Christian Democrats, exercise on this matter, so that we can have a wider participation in the autumn exercise flood?
i-658d12276c5cf663-657	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates are the party that in the longest part of the Swedish parliament has stood for law and order and has been the party that has stood up for decades for Sweden to have a policy in which crimes committed in our kingdom will receive proportionate and fair punishment. I am proud of this, and I am pleased that there now seems to be a broader consensus in this House on the Moderate line when it comes to law and order. With regard to Adam Marttinen's question as to whether risk could be a key element in the conditional release, the Moderates' message is that one could definitely look at this. At the same time, this is an area where there are no cross-safe answers. According to the investigation that forms the basis of the proposal and according to the consultation bodies in the investigation, it can sometimes be difficult to assess whether a risk will be realised or not. I think that this intellectual point should be respected and observed when designing one's policy on whether to take risk into account in the event of parole. As I said, we are prepared to review and look at this. We do not say unconditionally yes, but we do not say no. It is important to take these points into account, but it is also reasonable, as in our neighbouring countries, to take some account of risk.
i-658d12276c5cf663-660	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates are the party that has the longest stood up for law and order in the Swedish parliament and which has been most evident in these positions. I must apologize if we have come in as a player a bit from the side and taken over this role. From us you get clear-cut information about questions, but from the Moderates you get one, well, we can review it, look at it, think a little bit and leave it in the rolls and remain anonymous until you possibly, maybe sometime can look at it again and maybe come up with something. ..................................................... No, I do not think this is entirely satisfactory. Sure, I have great respect for the fact that it is difficult to estimate risk, but as I have said in previous lines, this principle is practiced in forensic psychiatry. If you think that a conditional release is fundamentally wrong, there is nothing wrong at all in letting those who have a risk of recurrence in crime sit off their sentence in order to achieve an incapacitation effect. It doesn't happen to anyone. They've been sentenced to prison. Let them sit time out! I do not quite understand what is so difficult for the Moderates to give a clear message about. They want to make themselves clearly proponents of law and order and stand up for legal principles and for the victims of crime. I think it was a little rough.
i-658d12276c5cf663-663	Mr President, I would like to It is welcome from the Moderates' side that the Swedish Democrats now join the Moderates' line when it comes to law and order. The Moderates are the party that for the longest time has had the clearest policy in this area, and we will continue to do so. We will not compete in either running or playing bingo about who can bid the highest in this debate. However, I can say that I do not believe that there is so much disagreement about the initial value or the assessment of whether risk could be a factor in the assessment of conditional release. There are not so great differences there. I would not say that the Moderates have any unclear policy in this area. On the contrary, I would say that the Moderates are the leading party for law and order in Sweden. We continue to have this leadership shirt, and we continue to whip the government when it comes to presenting legislative proposals for strengthened law and order and for strengthened security in Sweden. The debate we have had here today bears witness to this. It is based on an announcement that the Moderates have initiated. I would therefore say that the Moderates continue to stand strong and take the leadership shirt when it comes to law and order. And I am pleased to see that parties, such as the Swedish Democrats, are joining the Moderates' line in this area.
i-658d12276c5cf663-666	Mr President, I would like to Our prosperity is built by all the people who every day go to work, make a contribution and pay taxes. Our prosperity would not exist if there were no entrepreneurs who dared to invest in their idea and risk their saved money, what actually ends up in companies that later hire others. Our welfare also includes nurses and doctors who make sure that those who get sick can get back to work, teachers who make sure to educate and fill our children and young people with knowledge and equip them for the future, and preschool staff who make it possible for all children to get a good start in life and enable both parents to go to work. In short, I could sum up this with the fact that the foundation of our prosperity and of our well-being is that people are working. The more people who work and the more we work, the better the welfare we can stick with. But the challenges are, of course, in our welfare society. Mr President, I would like to The proportion of older people is increasing sharply over the next few decades, and Sweden is facing a demographic challenge. Today, we live on average 20 years longer after retirement than before, which is a fantastic development. But it also requires a change in the view of age. Sweden cannot afford to say no to the resource that older people's skills represent, but, on the contrary, politics must ensure that those who are able to and want to have the opportunity to continue working further up the age range. It is important that policies both understand and respect that older people are not a homogeneous group of people with the same needs and wishes. We need to create more ways to make it easier for people to live the active life that they want to live. Many people want to stay one or several years longer in the labour market. It strengthens the public economy and the individual's economy. However, it also provides an opportunity for more people to remain in a work community. It is the policy's task to create conditions through lower taxes that give employers more opportunities to provide good conditions for those who choose to stay in the labour market a little longer at the end of their working life. Those who want to continue their working life after the age of 65 and those who want to make better use of the skills and experience of the elderly should be encouraged to do so. It is therefore necessary to create opportunities for older people to continue their working lives and to continue their work. Mr President, I would like to Another aspect of the importance of encouraging more people to extend their working lives is the difficulties faced by companies in finding the right skills. I meet quite a few entrepreneurs, not least small businessmen in my constituency, who have great difficulties in replacing retired staff. An employee who has often been at the company for a long time and has a lot of skills and experience, it is difficult, not to say impossible, to replace. For a small company, it may be the existence of the whole company that rests more or less in the hands of the employee. It is therefore important that companies are not penalised for wanting to retain older and more experienced staff. The skills challenge for businesses is most difficult for small businesses. And for companies in sparsely populated areas, not least in northern Sweden, this is an extra challenge. I believe that abolishing the special wage tax for older people is particularly important for Sweden's rural areas. Mr President, I would like to As far as employment effects are concerned, the abolition of the special wage tax for older people and the introduction of the increased employment tax deduction for older people in 2007 together led to an increase in employment, i.e. an overall positive employment effect. The abolition of the special wage tax for older people will therefore, as it is now, have a positive impact on the demand for older workers. And in the longer term, we can assume that the entire abolished special wage tax in the form of higher wages will be passed on to the whole employee collective and not just to those affected by the change. Mr President, I would like to Finally, it cannot be avoided to comment that the design of this proposal is remarkable. The Government's proposal in the bill is inadequately justified and substantiated. Of course, we fully support the proposal to abolish the special salary tax for the elderly from 1 July this year. However, I call for the committee's proposal to be endorsed with the motivation of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, i.e. with reservation 2.
i-658d12276c5cf663-675	Mr President, I would like to According to the budget reservation supported by the Swedish Democrats last winter, the special wage tax for the elderly would be abolished, and that is what we are debating here today. It is well known that the average life expectancy is increasing in our country and that we are generally much healthier further up the age range. This is very positive and provides the opportunity for the individual to have an active life further up the age. When many then choose to end their working life when they reach the age of 65, the demographic challenge is to reduce the proportion of working people in the population. To encourage both employers and employees to continue working after the age of 65 we see as a matter of course and something positive, not only for the individual or for the employer, but also for society as a whole. Although the proposal may be considered to be a tax loss, it should be assumed that a proposal leading to an increase in the level of employment among older people will also lead to lower social costs. Mr President, I would like to One should not underestimate the feeling of being needed and being able to contribute to something. It gives in most people a healthier and healthier life than any medicine can offer. This should also lead to a reduction in efforts by local and regional authorities in the provision of home and healthcare services. The fact that older people also have skills that may not be fully exploited today cannot be overlooked either. And while the current boom may sing on the last verse, there is still a shortage of labour in many places. With a higher proportion of older workers, this gap could be mitigated. Finally, Mr President, continuing to work for a living after the age of 65 must nevertheless be voluntary. Many have a hard working life behind them with many times physically stressful tasks. Moreover, among the 65-year-olds today, upper secondary education was not self-evident, let alone higher education. This means that many of those who are 65 today have years of working life behind them than the 65-year-olds of the future will have. We support the proposal in substance, but we also support the motivational reservation of the Moderates and Christian Democrats.
i-658d12276c5cf663-682	Mr President, I would like to It is very sad that these tax changes continue to come from the M-KD-SD budget, and it is sad that the Social Democrats are presenting this. Mr President, I would like to Those who are expected to benefit from the abolition of special wage tax for older people are owners of companies with employees over 65 years of age. They will make greater profits as they no longer have to pay the special wage tax. In addition, older wage earners can benefit as demand for their labour force increases as it becomes cheaper. These are people who are more likely to be found in the upper half of income distribution, which means that people with higher economic standards are more favoured than people with lower economic standards. This, in turn, leads to an increase in economic inequality. The proposal is also expected to increase the economic disparities between men and women, since the majority of older workers are men. The aim of the proposal has previously been – and is probably still – to make it more attractive for employers to retain and employ older workers. However, this opportunity does not benefit everyone. People with low wages and worn-out jobs rarely have the energy to work until the present retirement age, which means that the proposal contributes to inequality between different groups of elderly people. Mr President, I would like to Many people are unable to work until today's retirement age. Nor is it directly linked to improvements in working life that make it possible to work longer – on the contrary. The discussion is usually about raising the retirement age because we live longer and therefore have to work longer; we could hear that just now. But on the one hand this does not apply to all groups, and on the other hand it is a good idea in theory but not in practice. The average age for retiring is 63, as it stands among the members of Kommunal today. The reason is that many can't work longer than that. These are groups that are low-paid, who have had heavy jobs and who have worn out their bodies – groups that start and end the day with painkillers, unlike those who are high-paid or work at a desk and are healthy. Then it is perhaps a little more reasonable to have a longer working life. If we are to extend working life, working conditions must first allow it, but the citizens and the government do not want to push in the reinforcements that are needed in working life. They refuse to see the increasing importance of what class we belong to in terms of how long we live. The higher income and education, the longer life – and vice versa. The gap between rich and poor, between low and highly educated, is increasing in Sweden. Instead of a strengthened distribution policy aimed at those groups with the greatest needs and instead of closing economic disparities, a proposal is put forward that will weaken public finances and is expected to increase economic inequality. Against this background, I would like to support the Left Party's reservation 1 in the report.
i-658d12276c5cf663-690	Madam President, I would like When you hear Tony Haddou speaking, you'll be sure of one thing: he's a left-wing party. There's no mistake about that. Everything to everyone, and someone else is going to pay. Increase taxes on everything – and then a little bit more. Also, apparently, people over 65 years of age are a group to be squeezed a little extra. Whatever the question, Madam President, a left-wing party is focusing all its energy on distributing the wealth that someone else has built up. Never even a second is devoted to reflection on the people and businesses that create the wealth that Tony Haddou so eagerly wants to distribute. Abolition of payroll tax for older people is good for everyone. It strengthens the public economy, and it strengthens welfare when more people pay taxes and work more. This proposal is an opportunity for anyone who wants to work. In Tony Haddous's speech you could hear hints of those who cannot continue working because they have had a hard job. This does not concern them; it concerns those who want to. It is about not punishing those who want to continue their working life but giving them the opportunity to do so. I would therefore like to ask Tony Haddou how he thinks that the wealth he so much wants to distribute will arise if it is not done by hardworking citizens, young and elderly. I would also like to ask why Tony Haddou is opposed to all those who work in the long run receiving increased wages as a result of this proposal. Furthermore, I wonder why Tony Haddou thinks it is right that it should cost extra to hire people over 65 years of age.
i-658d12276c5cf663-693	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking Mr Berglund for the praise – of course I am a left-wing party. I believe that what we want to achieve is greater equality. We see significantly increased gaps. We see them in the labour market and between urban and rural areas, and we see that the gaps are increasing in general in Sweden – from school age up to working life, as well as among older people. Such a proposal strengthens the difference between older people. It's as simple as that. Then, unfortunately, there were some errors on the part of Mrs Berglund. He said that this increases public finances, but it is estimated to cost 1 billion. And why shouldn't companies pay that money – that's about 6% – today, as they have done before? It is quite reasonable for companies to be responsible for this, is it not? The basis, however, is that we want to equalise economic differences. The Moderates aren't really there. What you want to do, Jörgen Berglund, is instead to increase economic differences. After all, we want to direct the distribution policy towards those groups that are most in need. There's a lot to say about this. What concerns me a little when it comes to the question of Moderates is this: You don't want to do anything about the Swedish Work Environment Agency and put in the money needed for people to be able to work anymore. That's not where you're interested. But can the Moderates explain how you think about the Arbetsförmedlingen going to hell? It is a historic day-to-day notice of 4,500 employees and plans to close every three offices. It does not get much easier for older people when they are not allowed to continue there.
i-658d12276c5cf663-697	Madam President, I would like The discussion about the Swedish Work Environment Agency and the Swedish Public Employment Service can we return to in this Chamber – now we are discussing the special payroll tax and the questions I asked Tony Haddou. Equality, which was the main theme of Tony Haddous's speech, increases as more people work. It increases when more people get a salary they can live on. It increases when more people pay taxes, so that we can expand the welfare of those who for some reason cannot go to work. In this report, it is also quite clear that, in the long run, the proposal provides increased pay for the entire employee collective. One of my questions to Tony Haddou was about this, and I wonder again: Why is Tony Haddou so against everyone who works getting a better wage development? As a moderate, of course, I think it is a good thing, and if I can also reduce the tax, it will be even better. Then, Madam President, I do not think that Tony Haddou touched on why it is so important that those over 65 years of age should be extra expensive to employ, as today. That's what we want to remove. We want to make it more equal, one might say.
i-658d12276c5cf663-700	Madam President, I would like If you want to continue working at work, it is obvious that you should be allowed to do so. We have a good business environment in Sverig e. Companies can pay these 6%, as they have done in previous years. We do not see that as a major problem. One can well take the example of corporate tax – it is lower than anywhere else in the OECD as a whole today, and it is planned to lower it by 2020. The business environment is therefore good in Sweden. We want a red tax shift, that is to say, to increase taxes on high-income earners and on capital income and to reduce taxes on low- and middle-income earners. Imagine, Jörgen Berglund – we want to reduce taxes for low and middle wage earners! Instead, you are going in a different direction where you want to subsidise the richest in Sweden. You want to continue with RUT and a tax system that benefits the very richest. I guess that's a problem. With those billions, we could increase wages above all for the services I mentioned. Those who work in municipal operations are not able to work much longer. Couldn't they get a raise in wages? They could have a good increase in wages if subsidies for the richest were removed. It is mainly people who work in home care, home care and retirement homes. I honestly have more confidence that those billions will be of greater benefit to the few target groups.
i-658d12276c5cf663-706	Madam President, I would like What may be most fun and interesting about being a Member of Parliament is to be out on all these study visits that you get the opportunity to go on. At these meetings you get to see, learn and hear a lot of different things. I have, of course, been on numerous study visits both as a member of Parliament and as a municipal politician in Gothenburg. I've met entrepreneurs in the restaurant business. I've met hotel owners. I've met companies in the chemical industry. I've been to preschools, car factories and ports. I have visited large and small companies, large and small businesses in the public sector. One thing I have with me from all these study visits: the lack of competent staff is a problem in almost every industry. An entrepreneur even said this: Everyone talks about the need for competent staff. We can't even get our hands on incompetent personnel. Skills supply problems are one reason why more older people are needed in the labour market. We cannot afford to say no to the skills of the elderly. On the contrary, we need to make it easier for more older people to work longer if they want to and can. This is one reason why it has been important for the Christian Democrats to abolish the special wage tax paid by employees over the age of 65. Making it more attractive to keep and hire older people helps to alleviate the problems of labour shortages. According to SKL, Swedish Municipalities and County Councils, there is a need for lots of new staff in all our various welfare activities. Only to maintain the current staff density will it take up to 2026, seven years from today, over half a million new employees. It is only necessary to maintain the current staff density. We cannot solve this by filling up with new young employees, as it would in principle be required that every one of these workers worked in welfare. On the contrary, the elderly are absolutely essential if we are to have a chance even to maintain the staffing density we have today. That is why it is extremely important to make it more attractive to keep older people in the labour market. Madam President, I would like The supply of skills is not the only reason why it is good to abolish the special wage tax for older people. Today we are living longer and fast. For every month that passes, we live on average four days longer. Of course, it's really something that's absolutely amazing. But it also places demands on society. This requires that we enable a longer working life in different ways. When an elderly person stays on the labour market for an extra year or two, it strengthens both the public economy and the chances of maintaining well-being. But of course it also strengthens the individual's economy. In addition, it also provides more opportunities to continue to take part in the community that it means to be in a workplace. This policy will create the conditions for lower taxes that allow employers to provide good conditions for those who remain in the labour market a little longer at the end of their working life. Those who want to continue their professional life after the age of 65 and those employers who want to make better use of the experience and knowledge of the elderly should be encouraged to do so. Madam President, I would like Finally, like many other good things that have come from the government this spring, this matter is the result of the support of the Christian Democrats and Moderates' budgets in the House last autumn. Thanks to it, the special wage tax can now be abolished. It is now again becoming more attractive to have older employees. I request the approval of reservation 2, the reservation of reasons on the matter.
i-658d12276c5cf663-715	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Government's proposal to abolish the special wage tax for the elderly. The proposal comes as a result of the napkin sketch to the budget presented by the Moderates and Christian Democrats, which won the approval of the Riksdag, and not least the approval of the Swedish Democrats. The change will mean that companies will no longer pay the special salary tax of 6.5% on employees' wages and other remuneration for persons aged 65 or over. The main beneficiaries of the proposal are owners of companies with many employees over the age of 65 and those with active economic activity over the age of 65. In the short term, the proposal provides for greater profits for companies, some of which are reasonably converted into higher wages for employees. The argument for the abolition of the special wage tax for older people is usually that it should be profitable both for the individual and for the employer to have employees over 65 years of age. But it is already profitable today without this proposal, and it will be even more so after the abolition. It is rarely the case that it is the poor pensioners who are able to continue working after 65 years. Poor pensioners have usually been low-paid and have had a more routine job in industry, health care or commerce. These are jobs where stress and occupational injuries have been more common. Being able to reach retirement age is often an achievement in itself. This proposal does not benefit the poor or middle pensioner, but more high-income earners who want to continue working. A large proportion of the poor pensioners are women who have worn themselves out in health care and through the duplication of work involved in home and children's responsibilities. Sweden is not yet on an equal footing. It is still the case that we women bear the main responsibility for such things as cleaning, washing up, and remembering the children's gym clothes and excursion food. This proposal will not give women better pensions, because it will promote more men than women. Madam President, I would like When discussing tax matters, it is important to have two perspectives. One is about the financial distribution between income earners, and the other is about how well-being is to be financed and the redistribution of resources in our society through the use of tax funds. This proposal means that some billion of the tax revenue is lost. We already have a tax rate at levels similar to those of the 1970s. At the same time, we have higher demands and expectations for welfare today than we had in the 1970s. Today, we save people from diseases that were a death sentence at the time. Virtually everyone moves on to upper secondary school education. In the past, the benchmark was 80 per cent of an age group. There was no childcare of today in the 1970s or such extended parental insurance. Bourgeois representatives would be happy to warn against a high tax rate. They now need to bear in mind the risks of a low tax rate caused by various small tax cuts. It's usually said that the devil is in the details. In the field of taxation, it is expressed by all these small tax adjustments downwards that different interests constantly want. A little lower VAT there, a little more tax deduction here and then a big new dash of job tax deductions. SKL warned this week that increased municipal taxes are needed together with higher state subsidies to municipalities and continued rationalisation in the local government sector. It's a nice word for fewer people to do more. A key task for a new tax reform must be to secure long-term welfare tax funding. Madam President, I would like The challenges that we Social Democrats are looking forward to require resources, such as investment in the Armed Forces and the police, the welfare efforts that will be required of an ageing population and the efforts needed in health care and in our social security systems. If we are to build a society in which children who are growing up today can expect to be better, and no worse, than their parents, it is important to think about how to secure this through our tax system.
i-658d12276c5cf663-727	Madam President, I would like It cannot be avoided to comment on Mr Kayhan's speech. With regard to the budget motion voted by the Swedish Parliament before Christmas – you may call it a tissue sketch – I can see that since it went through, the Social Democrats have had no problem trying to take credit for all the investments this budget motion involved. It is about investments in health care, school, customs and so on. Madam President, I would like In these days, it is also not possible to comment on the fact that Sultan Kayhan, in his speech, announced the actions of the Swedish Armed Forces. I do not think anyone in Sweden today believes that the Social Democrats have any credibility on this issue. After all, they are prepared in the Defence Committee to have ambitious goals, of course, but without resources. That, if anything, is a napkin sketch or possibly an old dish cloth. Madam President, I would like I would now like to return to the subject. The fact that the Social Democrats were willing to sell out their whole political soul to remain in the Government Office was, of course, clear with the January agreement, i.e. the JÖK. This applies to reduced tax rates for the richest, market rents, reduced labour law and so on. But it is actually news to me, Madam President, that the Social Democrats do not want to stand up for proposals such as this, which create more resources for welfare. I have two questions for Sultan Kayhan: why do you take such a negative view of this proposal, which you are, after all, presenting? Why isn't Sultan Kayhan defending a proposal that involves more hours worked, which gives more money to welfare?
i-658d12276c5cf663-732	Madam President, I would like There were a lot of questions, so I'll try to briefly answer everyone as far as I can. Efforts on welfare were also proposed in our own budget. It is only good when we can agree on certain things that both sides want. When it comes to the Armed Forces: Was it not, frankly, the then alliance government that invested so much less in the defence that it was neglected? When we took over, it was an improvement. On the other hand, I can talk a little further about the January agreement. We make no secret of the fact that the situation we are in now is not what we would have wanted. The people of Sweden have voted, and a compromise has been called for in order to bring about a government. In a compromise, we have to give and take, and part of the policy that we now have to implement is not what we would have liked to do and something that we would never have done ourselves. Some of the proposals hurt to implement, but not as bad as it would have done if we had not taken responsibility for Sweden, and not as bad as it would have done if we had released a government that had ruled with the support of conservative parties and the Swedish Democrats. It is a government option that would mean a lot. I am thinking not least of the new proposals that come up in the world today, such as in Alabama, where abortion rights have been banned entirely regardless of whether the woman has been raped or subjected to incest. The Swedish Democrats also want to undermine the right to abortion in Sweden. It would have done so much more harm to release such an option than it does to agree to the January Agreement.
i-658d12276c5cf663-738	Madam President, I would like This is not a debate on defence policy, but I can see that during eight years of alliance governments not a single unit was laid down in Sweden. I just want to remind you of that. If this proposal is as bad as you express, Sultan Kayhan, why are you presenting it? Then it is as I said at the beginning: You have sold your soul to remain in Rosenbad. You do not take responsibility for the formation of the Swedish government with this; you have taken responsibility for your own party when it comes to remaining in Rosenbad. For example, you could have supported Ulf Kristersson as Prime Minister. That would have been quite possible. I would like to return to the question I asked: why does Sultan Kayhan not defend a proposal that involves more hours worked, which provides more money for welfare? As I said in my opening speech, our welfare is built on the fact that people are working and that businesses are set up and developed so that more people can get to work and pay taxes. In this way we can make the much-needed resource reinforcements of, among other things, the police, customs and the Armed Forces. I hope I can get an answer to this in this round of lines.
i-658d12276c5cf663-742	Madam President, I would like It'll just be a little hard to catch up with when there's a lot of questions. The reason why we are allowed to implement some of the things that we do not always like is that the proposals have support in the Riksdag. It's no more complicated than that. Once again, there is a reason why we are not overjoyed by the proposal that is now being put forward. If you look at questions without having a bigger perspective, it is easy to angle them. However, in view of the whole societal perspective, this proposal, as I said earlier in my speech, is particularly beneficial to high-income earners. In particular, it does not benefit the ordinary poor pensioner or even the middle-income pensioner. It certainly does not benefit women either, but it mainly benefits pensioners and other people who are 65 years of age or more and who have higher incomes. And that is especially true of men. At the same time, however, about SEK 1 billion of tax revenue is lost, and it is money that all pensioners would need in their welfare. While the proposal involves the loss of 1 billion – and certainly it can benefit some – I believe that this billion could have benefited many more people.
i-658d12276c5cf663-747	Madam President, I would like I, too, could not avoid requesting a reply to Sultan Kayhan's fire speech against the government's proposal. At the end of the day, Mr S. will still vote in favour of the proposal, and that is a good thing to say. I spoke quite a lot about the supply of skills in my speech earlier. It is an extremely important issue to ensure that there are competent staff in all the various welfare activities that at least the Christian Democrats defend. The special wage tax has cost these welfare activities an enormous amount of money. Since the introduction of the payroll tax, it has cost municipalities and county councils at least SEK 1 1⁄2 billion in increased taxes and increased employers' contributions. And then not even the private health centres and all the other independent alternatives are included, but this only applies to municipalities and county councils. For them, this policy has cost 11⁄2 billion. My question to Sultan Kayhan is quite simple: in what way have these costs for municipalities and county councils strengthened welfare?
i-658d12276c5cf663-751	Madam President, I would like I am not sure I heard the question correctly, but it is absolutely important to have skills and competent staff. I do not think there is anyone in this House who would have any objection whatsoever to it. It is also good that people who are 65 or older and who have the will and the ability to work further actually do so. I do not think anyone in this House has any objection either. As I said in my speech, it is already profitable to employ people who are 65 and older. Among other things, employers do not pay a pension contribution. Employers do not pay the social security contributions they pay when an employee is under 65. If I'm not mistaken, they'll also get an extra job tax deduction. So it is not unprofitable in any way to hire a person aged 65 or over. In fact, those activities benefit financially from employing people aged 65 and over. This proposal means that they are most likely to benefit even more.
i-658d12276c5cf663-754	Madam President, I would like No, there is no objection to the importance of skills provision. But you don't have the politics for that, you have to say. The question was how the increased taxes that municipalities and county councils had to pay when the Red-Green Government reintroduced the special wage tax that the Alliance abolished has strengthened welfare. After all, there is a considerable cost for municipalities and county councils when they are forced to pay this extra tax which the government has imposed on them and which we are now taking away.
i-658d12276c5cf663-756	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that it comes from a Christian Democrat Member that we Social Democrats should not have policies on skills provision and on improving health care. I would like to remember that the newspaper said yesterday that there is no money left in the Stockholm County Council for health care and that Karolinska sj ukhuset must therefore notify 550 employees. I'm not sure that party is the right one to talk about which party has the policy of the best health care in our society. How do you strengthen your welfare with taxes? It is about how to allocate the resources available. By collecting taxes, there are resources to be used in welfare. This is the way to strengthen well-being and improve people's lives, for example by hiring more people in health care. When there is no money, as it is now apparently doing in Stockholm County Council, you can't hire, but get a notice of employees. It wouldn't have happened if there had been more money, so that way seems pretty obvious.
i-658d12276c5cf663-758	Madam President, I would like We have a report before us to consider. I must admit that it is probably a report produced with a large dose of duty. I note the Left Party's comment from here on the speaker's chair that it is sad that S continues to implement what Parliament has decided. It may be that Mr S. finds it sad to implement this proposal, but it honours them that they are actually implementing it. It happens that the opposite happens. The special wage tax makes it difficult for entrepreneurship and job creation by increasing the cost of hiring. The increased costs of hiring make it difficult both to re-enter and to accelerate the exit from the labour market. This is particularly problematic in the light of the need to actually extend working life. Madam President, I would like It is important to remember that the special wage tax also has marginal consequences that can be serious enough. In healthcare, for example, many people look forward to being able to go in and work a little extra after a pension. But if a number of thousands of people consider not doing so because they do not benefit from it, there will be consequences. If you look forward to a retirement life, it should pay a little extra to take a few hours of extra work. The Center Party believes that, on the contrary, more needs to be done to get more people to work longer. For people working after 65 years of age, the Alliance government introduced a reinforced job tax deduction. Evaluations of that reform show that the groups concerned were working more. With more hours worked, the Swedish economy is strengthened in the long term. It is interesting that in today's debate we see so clearly a kind of denial on the red side of the fact that hours worked and the companies are the basis of welfare. We have heard gender equality arguments today: it is the low-wage groups that do not benefit from this. But perhaps it is precisely the low-wage groups who want to work more, precisely because they are low-wage groups and have a lower pension in a pension system that is largely built and led by an S-rule. Not all low-wage pensioners are sick. We're actually getting healthier. Why should they not be encouraged to work anymore? The report states that this reform costs about 1 billion. I am quite convinced that if the government had looked at this a little more, as many have pointed out, it would have been able to see that the increase in hours worked will well cover this billion. Otherwise, there are a number of proposals, not least a number of election promises from the S-government, which are much more costly and which can be put on the table instead. I just need to mention family week. Demand for older workers needs to be strengthened. There are signs that it becomes more difficult for a person to get a job interview even after the person has passed 40. This also makes it more difficult to get a job. Of course, the possibility of working further up the years must be strengthened in several ways. In particular, incentives for retraining and further training need to be strengthened. I support the committee's proposal.
i-658d12276c5cf663-767	Madam President, I would like Surely it is a pleasure to see the Social Democratic-led government put forward proposals for tax cuts! I hope, Madam President, that during this term of office we will see more of these from the government, more cases of the Social Democrats, as Jörgen Berglund said in their speech, selling out their souls through more tax cuts. However, one is a little concerned, Madam President, when one thinks about the future of this country and about the fiscal policy that is to come. The overall left-wing side shows quite a great deal of contempt for entrepreneurship. They show quite a lack of understanding of how well-being is financed. They show that they may not fully understand the fact that reduced taxes lead to more people working, more are entrepreneurs and more contribute to the prosperity that underpins our entire welfare. That is how it is, Madam President: when people go to work, are entrepreneurs, are enterprising, drive entrepreneurial innovations, get a job regardless of age – that is when we get a wealth that we can then distribute into welfare. Madam President, I would like There is a nuance of ageism in this whole debate. There is some idea that older people would not be able to work because some older people who have had a certain type of occupation find it difficult to work. Be that as it may. When you reach a certain age, some people may find it more difficult to continue working because they have had heavier jobs. But it does not say that other people who can work could not go to work, could not keep their employment, could not continue to build wealth. I would say that it is ageism to bring all the elderly together, and I am, in fact, quite frightened, Madam President, by the rhetoric that we are hearing here from the overall left-wing side. There are people who can't work when they're 45 or for that matter 25, but that doesn't mean that the rest of us should stop working at that age. You should work as long as you want and can because it is good that more people contribute to prosperity and to welfare. It should not Swedish politics fire tax and tax away. Madam President, I would like Several before me have been into the changed demography. It is clear that we, as politicians in this country, have a responsibility to ensure that the economy goes together, must also take into account that people are getting older and healthier in older days, but will actually have to work further up in the old age. A couple of people from the collected left side have mixed things up a little bit. It sounds to them like private employers are going to make a lot of money from this while public employers are going to lose. But, Madam President, when you lower the tax, the pay gap increases. When you lower the tax on private entrepreneurs, there is more room to raise wages if you want to keep skills. It also increases the scope for hiring more people so that more people can participate and so that more people can get both jobs in the public and in the private where value is actually created. This treasure has cost the regions of this country $1 billion. There are quite a few colleagues who have missed out on the people in these tedious public professions, which the left side claims to want to defend. Every penny extra in tax that we here from the Riksdag force the regions to pay means that it becomes more difficult to hire doctors, nurses and other employees and colleagues needed to be able to get care throughout the country and to be able to work a little more and work without being worn out. Madam President, I would like This is not, as it sounded to the Social Democrats, above all, a reduction in revenue for the state. If you keep this, it means that the regions get less money because they have to pay a higher tax. I think it is irresponsible to want to transfer money from the regions to the state and argue that it would be better for what is at the heart of welfare. Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we are creating a greater scope for private employers to hire more and allow people to work higher up the age and that we are increasing the pay gap that you may need to retain skills when the skills in question have grown a little older and perhaps start to look towards their pension. Madam President, I would like I am also pleased that with this proposal we are making sure that the public with public employees gets a little more money over and can hire a few more colleagues. In doing so, I would like to support the committee's proposal and to thank the Social Democrats once again for starting work on reducing taxes, which is something that we will have to follow throughout the term of office.
i-658d12276c5cf663-779	Madam President, I would like We are going to discuss the EU Yearbook today and take a look back at the past year. But just looking back without an idea of the future doesn't add up. The EU faces many challenges. The competitiveness of a continent with a stagnant and ageing population is affected, and that means that we need to have a flexible and sustainable approach to migration in all its different forms. We have a knowledge challenge where education and research will bring tomorrow's innovations and trade. We have a democratic challenge both inside and outside the EU. The EU can also contribute to a wiser world where environmental action can be made sensible and effective. As far as China is concerned, the European Union and the United States are the natural axis that must be established in order to face the unfair competition that China currently represents in its own right. Madam President, I would like Europe's competitiveness must increase, and it needs to lead the development of a free trade-friendly world. The EU should therefore focus on more trade-promoting reforms and a more effective environment and climate policy, tackling cross-border crime, developing foreign and security policy, having a sustainable migration policy and safeguarding freedom and democracy in the EU and around the world. In this context, there should also be clear demands on EU Member States to comply with EU decisions taken but also to comply with fundamental democratic principles and values. Through European cooperation, we can tackle many of our major challenges for the future and find common solutions that individual countries cannot manage on their own. We Moderates want the EU to focus in particular on more trade-promoting reforms and a more effective environmental and climate policy, and we also want the EU to take a strong stance against cross-border crime. Safeguarding freedom and democracy in the EU and around us is a key issue. At the same time, it is also important that the EU is not given tasks that Member States best manage themselves. Madam President, I would like It is 25 years since the Swedish vote on EU membership was held. The discussion should focus on what Sweden wants European cooperation for and how it can best help to genuinely solve the common and cross-border challenges. For the Moderates, it is essential that each Member State itself takes the primary responsibility for its economic policies and the structural reforms that need to be implemented in order to improve competitiveness. When global competition is rapidly intensifying, we see more clearly than for a long time the need for increased competitiveness also within the EU. The answer to that challenge must never be economic protectionism or nationalism. The EU needs to lead the development of a free trade-friendly world, and the recognition of fundamental values by all Member States is a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the EU. Work well, yes. One of the major countries is leaving the EU. Brexit is a truly sad chapter in the history of the European Union. It is the saddest thing in European cooperation since the Second World War. It is a result of political miscalculations and political misdecisions. Sweden has everything to gain from the UK being as close to the EU as possible. It is in the interests of Sweden and the EU that the UK withdraws in an orderly manner and that the EU has as close a relationship with the UK as possible in the future. We must therefore find new forms of our good cooperation and exchange. But there is also a world outside the EU. 2018 was characterised by an uncertain world situation with increased questioning of international standards and international cooperation. These developments demonstrate the need for an active and common European foreign and security policy to safeguard the European security regime. It is precisely here that the EU should be at its strongest, as no European country alone can face the challenges of common security. The EU uses sanctions as a foreign policy instrument to promote security, defend democratic principles and human rights, prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and combat terrorism. The Moderates welcome the fact that the discussion on a possible global thematic human rights sanction regime includes the interaction with existing human rights instruments and sanction regimes. We also want to strengthen Europol and use the EU more to combat cross-border crime. EU law enforcement cooperation shall be based on mutual recognition and respect for each other's legal systems. Madam President, I would like It is now ten years since the Eastern Partnership between the EU and six Eastern European countries was established. It was an initiative from Poland and Sweden. Some progress can be seen in Eastern Partnership countries in terms of economic development, trade and energy efficiency. At the same time, however, there are still shortcomings in terms of democracy and human rights, the fight against corruption and civil society's ability to operate. The strong Russian reaction to the partnership has escalated and put the partner countries, not least Ukraine, under severe pressure. Sweden must support Ukraine towards Russia – it must be done through the EU – and help find a peaceful solution to the war in eastern Ukraine, which Russia started in 2014 through the annexation of Crimea. The opportunity for Eastern Partnership countries to develop into vital democracies and market economies is central to a secure and stable Europe. A successful neighbourhood policy is crucial, but then there must also be clearer support for democracy, human rights and open economies. It will require great perseverance. However, in order for the partnership to have a real impact, the EU needs to clearly declare that these countries can become members of the EU if they so wish or are able to do so. The path to membership is often demanding and complex. But it is precisely the fulfilment of the EU's membership criteria that basically gives membership its great value because it creates the conditions for becoming part of a community of free societies and competitive economies. Madam President, I would like Prosperity begins with trade. It is trade that has brought prosperity and helped to lift millions of people out of poverty worldwide. Sweden should be the main voice for free trade within the EU and in the world. It is a responsibility that we gladly take on. In times of trade wars between the US and China, the importance of a clear EU-wide trade policy is all the greater. More free trade agreements increase our ability to set standards for the global economy, for respect for international law and for health and environmental agreements. The EU free trade agreements should therefore be as ambitious and comprehensive as possible. The WTO rules are under intense pressure, and it is important that we safeguard and contribute to a robust international trading system that ensures that agreements and agreements are also respected. Madam President, I would like Looking back to a year with the EU cannot be done for eight minutes. I'd like to speak several times eight minutes, but for time winning, I'm in favor of Moderate reservation 1. We support other reservations. I hope for a good 2019 – 2020 and a good future for the European Union. It's worth it.
i-658d12276c5cf663-799	Madam President, I would like Today, we are debating the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs' activities in the European Union in 2018. This is a debate which, of course, feels a little extra topical, as today there are only eleven days left before the European elections. Since we in Sweden had the chance to vote on membership of the predecessor of the European Union, the Community in the European Union has changed considerably. The power of more and more policy areas has been transferred from the Swedish Parliament to the politicians and army by bureaucrats and lobbyists in Brussels. With the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, Member States' self-determination was further weakened, and the Union's expenditure has completely run out. The political ambition in Brussels is clear. The aim is to further limit national self-determination and, within the framework of the social pillar, the EU is in the long term expected to put forward proposals to take over responsibility for several of the areas associated with the welfare state. At the same time, the EU has repeatedly proved incapable of managing the most basic tasks within the framework of its commitment. When the global financial crisis hit in 2007, the countries that had joined the densest fiscal cooperation were worst hit, while the countries – including Sweden – that did not join did much better. We also saw a Europe that was unable to protect its external borders or to uphold the rules it had itself introduced for asylum management within the EU when migratory flows increased drastically in 2015. As the EU expanded to include more countries with increasingly diverse economic, political and cultural conditions, freedom of movement has also become increasingly questionable. Another dark cloud that has appeared on the EU sky is Sweden's EU fee. The Commission wants us Swedish taxpayers – who are already one of the largest net contributors in history – to pay an additional SEK 15 billion per year to the EU when the UK leaves the EU. It is a proposal that we Swedish democrats see as totally unacceptable and de facto. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats, of course, see the need for effective European cooperation, not least because a small country like Sweden benefits greatly from free trade in the internal market, as well as in the external market, where the EU, as a global player through trade agreements, is an important key. In an increasingly mobile world, common standards and cooperation on cross-border situations and challenges are also important. For us Swedish democrats, there is only one way to go for Europe, namely the path of change. Instead of deepening the Union in more policy areas, the EU needs to show greater respect for the differences within it. Madam President, I would like This year's European Parliament elections are one of the most important ever. Thanks to the fact that the changing winds of conservatism are blowing ever harder both in Sweden and across Europe, there is now a real opportunity to influence and change the EU from within. The vision of the Swedish Democrats for Europe is a Europe characterised by strong national democracies with great civic influence, in which each nation must decide its own future and where even the cultures of the smallest nations must be respected. We have a vision of a Europe that is held together through its history and its common western cultural heritage. In our Europe, we take joint responsibility for protecting and preserving our environment and protecting ourselves against terrorism, violence and organised crime. We also want to see a Europe where every tax chandelier is used responsibly and where corruption and waste are vigorously combated. Our Europe is made up of independent nations that act freely and exchange ideas with each other. It should be a Europe where citizens can freely study and work in other countries without unfair competition, and where we interact around relevant research while each country takes responsibility for its own social problems and its own development. The goal of the Swedish Democrats is to gradually return the decision-making power back to Sweden, back to our Swedish elected politicians – a journey that can begin after 26 May. Madam President, I would like To conclude, I would like to say a few words about Russia. More than five years have passed since Russia illegally annexed the Crimea Peninsula. The illegal annexation still persists, while developments in Russia continue to move in an authoritarian non-democratic direction. This is something that we Swedish democrats are very concerned about. The lack of respect for the territorial integrity of other states – as we have seen from the invasion of both Ukraine and Georgia – is very worrying. The Russian exercises on and around the Baltic Sea have worsened the security situation in our part of Europe. Because of Russia's actions and developments, we Swedish democrats therefore believe that the existing economic sanctions, as well as the targeted sanctions against parts of the government, should remain and if possible be tightened up. We Swedish democrats also see the need for a plan to address the strategic threat that arises if Member States become overly dependent on Russian energy.
i-658d12276c5cf663-814	Madam President, I would like Lars Andersson's speech began as a litany of the European Union and all that it entails. I noted that he preferred to talk about Europe rather than about Europe. Today, however, we are discussing precisely the EU, the European project, which means that we work together in an orderly manner and benefit from what we can contribute under a common umbrella. During the past year, the Swedish Democrats have changed their approach to the EU. It says it no longer wants to leave the EU or at least does not want to push the issue of exit. Whether it is an honest attitude or an opportunist approach in times of increased popular support for the EU, the future will have to decide. If it is an honest change, it must have its roots in one of the events of the last year, probably something that is included in the major yearbook. My question to Lars Andersson is therefore: What happened in the past year in the EU caused the Swedish Democrats to leave the requirement for Swedish withdrawal from the EU? Was it perhaps even when we saw how forcefully the EU acted when Article 7 was activated against Poland and Hungary for their lack of democratic development?
i-PGgFfHtcrkjKhqMXCWyGME	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Rothenberg, for the question. Personally, I do not think it is at all strange to be pragmatic about the European Union as an institution. The fact is that, for the first time, we have a real opportunity to influence the Union from within with the development that we are experiencing at the moment. Mrs Rothenberg is, of course, aware that the EU-critical parties around more or less all the Member States will grow properly and thus be able to influence in a way that has not been possible in the past. The currents are clear. But that said, there are, of course, parts of the EU that are very positive and that are to be preserved and, in some areas, are also happy to be extended. Cooperation on free trade, the environment and international crime is not only positive but also necessary. But the fact that there is a discrepancy between Member States where the benefits, needs and wishes of the Union vary is very clear. As I said, there are obvious areas for positive cooperation. But our self-determination in areas such as transport, agriculture, wolf hunting, snuff and the social pillar is something we should protect. Both in these areas and in others our own knowledge and knowledge is both deeper and broader than that of the globalists in Brussels. It is the increase in our self-determination that we Swedish democrats will fight for.
i-658d12276c5cf663-820	Madam President, I would like I note that Mr Andersson had prepared well for my question; however, it was not part of the preparations to respond to it. The internationally esteemed V-dem Institute at the University of Gothenburg conducts continuous studies of the development of democracy in the world. Recent reports show that one third of the world's population lives in countries where the development of democracy is backward. Unfortunately, Europe is the region where the trend is strongest. Unfortunately, there are also examples of countries in the European Community where democracy, freedom of expression and freedom of the press are hard-pressed. In two of these countries, Article 7 has thus been activated. Sweden's newly won support and commitment to the EU did not exist a year ago. Something has obviously happened over the past year. I expect Lars Andersson to respond to what happened. But with the strong support they now have for the EU as an institution, I wonder how the Swedish Democrats want to further work to reverse the development and strengthen democracy in those countries where the development of democracy is backward. This is particularly true within the European Union, where there are two countries such as Hungary and Poland. I know, of course, that the Swedish Democrats have a rather intense cooperation with parties in these two countries. How do you want to help strengthen democracy, freedom of expression and freedom of the press in these countries? It would indeed be, as you say in all other contexts, to help on the ground.
i-PGxj5KhrBjDC2R4ZKPvZMt	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Mrs Rothenberg. You are talking about Hungary and Poland and our close cooperation with them. You obviously know a lot more than I do about these close collaborations. It's not something I experience in my daily life at all. Brexit, which is also always on the agenda, has, of course, been a deterrent, not least in domestic Swedish opinion. We seem to have become even more EU-positive as a result of developments due, among other things, to Britain's withdrawal. While England itself has internal frictions, the EU seems to make it as difficult as possible to leave the Union. Sometimes I wonder why. If Europe is the wonderful and absolutely amazing Union, why not just let them leave us? The EU's attitude on the outside is that it is entirely the loss of Britain and that it may not really know what it is doing, despite the fact that every electoral district in England, apart from Storlondon, voted in favour of Brexit. It is a bit dangerous to idiotise a clear majority in a large and well-functioning country. It is not entirely impossible for the British and also Poland and Hungary to look a little at our dear neighbours and perhaps even Switzerland and realise that there are other successful ways forward than in a detailed supranational body which is gradually moving power from the individual Member States to Brussels. This is a development that we want to counteract and combat. I see little relevance in the fact that Hungary and Poland are constantly being pulled up when we discuss the issue.
i-658d12276c5cf663-829	Madam President, I would like The activities of the European Union in 2018 have been negotiated, if you will say so. It is negotiations aimed at peace, reconciliation but also freedom. Eleven days before the European elections, many can see that this is a debate on the European Parliament elections, but that is not the case. It is really about the yearbook for 2018, but of course there is knowledge from history to include. The choice is about giving energy to the fundamental values that underpin Europe: openness, freedom and humanity. We have a Union that is exposed to quite a lot of tension. As mentioned earlier, an Article 7 procedure was launched in 2018, and is based on the fact that the fundamental values are threatened from within. We know and hear that others want to continue along this path and to change Europe from within. More efforts are needed to uphold fundamental values. This shows the development in 2018. We have a Europe that must also meet the challenges, and there are many of them. Let me just mention climate issues, which are a key challenge for all of us. In other contexts, we also raise antibiotic issues and healthy and safe food as important elements for meeting future health challenges. There is no doubt that we would not have had a Paris agreement to work with without the European Union. The EU also plays a key role in maintaining and upholding the Paris Agreement. Over the past year, we have also been looking at and trying to restore emissions trading systems. It is something that is important to work forward in order to be able to deal with climate issues. The EU has also played a role in maintaining multilateral order and in promoting free trade and opportunities for people to emerge from poverty. The EU is one of the major pillars of Agenda 2030 and of achieving its global goals. During 2018, we have seen several new free trade agreements negotiated. It is, of course, important at a time when the banner driver of protectionism is increasingly riding to storm against free trade. Of course, you cannot talk about 2018, a year of negotiations, without thinking about Brexit. Of course Brexit has been a wet blanket for all of us. At the same time, it has been instructive. On our part, of course, we have respect for the decision and position of the British people, whether the British people ultimately decide not to pursue Brexit but to do something else. It's up to the British people. Regardless of this, it is vital for us to have a close relationship with the United Kingdom and to ensure that we have as good a relationship as possible with it. It's about our security, but it's also about very long-term relationships that matter to us and the Nordic countries to meet the challenges we're looking forward to. The year 2018 has also been a challenge when it comes to our security. We have seen that defence cooperation has been strengthened, and there will be more in that area. But it is also about new threats, such as cyber threats, and about getting stronger at meeting and dealing with those kinds of issues jointly. It's important. Basically, we have a great expectation that Europe will be able to make a difference to security. Take the current developments with regard to Iran and the Arabian Peninsula! JCPOA has been one of the issues that we in the European Union have been holding. We are trying to contain a development in which nuclear weapons re-emerge and threaten others. That is, of course, an important part. The EU's ability to attract others to follow the EU's example has proved strong. It is about resolving conflicts at the negotiating table for peace, freedom and reconciliation and upholding democracy, human rights and the rule of law. I do not think that we can talk about 2018 without mentioning one of the issues that has been paralysing in the Balkans, but which has now been resolved, namely the long-standing name conflict, which actually stems from much more. What has opened a door to this has been precisely the perspective of future membership. It is important that we have taken that step. Northern Macedonia and Greece have set a good example for all of us. A bad example, which cannot be avoided either, concerns regional relations. Russia continues to violate the agreements we have reached. When we celebrate the ten years of the Eastern Partnership this year, Russia continues to try to block our Eastern Partnership countries from moving closer. Neither Georgia nor Ukraine remain fully responsible for their territory. It is violated by Russia through occupation, war and annexation. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. It concerns Abkhazia, South Ossetia, Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. On that followed Kerchsundet 2018. Ukrainian sailors are still in prison, taken to Moscow in Russia. This is, of course, totally unacceptable. We need to tighten up the sanctions. It is not enough just to maintain the old ones, but it needs to be further tightened up. We, on our part, have highlighted the issue of being able to introduce Magnitsky legislation or Magnitsky sanctions at the European level. We think it would be a good way forward and would like to see it. But we also hear that things are slow and that there are many who want to put gravel in that machinery. For this reason, we choose to highlight the issue of working with like-mind countries to develop Magnitsky sanctions that can be effective and which can also be a push that affects the EU to move forward itself. The best thing would be, as I said, if everyone were there, but if not everyone is there, we should try to do this together with like-mind. It is about being able to impose sanctions on persons responsible for corruption and human rights violations. Money is transferred to other countries and nothing happens. Here we must create tools to put on. Madam President, I would like Of course, we support all our reservations, but I call for the winning approval of time only for reservation 17 in paragraph 6.
i-658d12276c5cf663-844	Madam President, I would like Europe has never been so rich and at the same time so unequal. The inequality between those who have and those who have not is spreading both within and between countries in Europe. The EU response to the financial crisis was even more of the right-wing policy that created the crisis. Banks were saved, but the costs had to be borne by the rest of us. The growing inequality has created a breeding ground for nationalists and racists who want to restrict democracy. With the help of the right, they take power in Europe through rhetoric and a policy that kicks down. Madam President, I would like Climate change is already here. On our scales it melts faster, and in our forests it burns more and more often. The consequences of climate change threaten people, animals and communities. Substantial changes in society are needed to mitigate the consequences. Above all, it is urgent. There is a strong peoples' movement for the transition to a long-term sustainable society. But the opponents are powerful, let's remember, because they're making money from today's system. The Left cannot accept that the fossil industry and its lobbyists can determine the future of all of us. Their power in Europe must be broken. More ambitious cooperation is needed in Europe to tackle climate change. The Left Party wants to use the EU to set significantly higher climate ambitions for emission levels, energy efficiency and renewable energy requirements through binding targets and rules. This means that we will be rid of dependence on oil, gas and coal and that coal power in the EU can be phased out of the EU by 2030. The price of allowances also needs to be increased. Today, this is made more difficult by the EU's built-in preference for the profits and interests of big business. By leading progressive countries together, we can pave the way for more people to live up to the Paris Agreement. Madam President, I would like Since autumn 2015, when the number of asylum seekers in the EU increased sharply, migration policies in the EU and its Member States have changed in a very restrictive direction. The Commission has begun to pursue a policy of preventing migrants and refugees from coming to Europe. This policy has been based in particular on support for the Libyan coastguard and agreements with a number of African states where aid, trade and investment are conditional upon efforts to stop people on the run. It is a policy that violates agreed principles on the use of aid, goes against the spirit of the right of asylum and results in gross violations of human rights. It also impairs the ability to achieve sustainable development in these African countries and leads to increased instability. The Left Party is very critical of the policy pursued and wants to see legal ways to Europe so that we do not see more death on the Mediterranean. Then this responsibility cannot be left to bandits, as it is many times, in the Libyan so-called coastguard. Madam President, I would like We are also seeing worrying developments in Europe, which call into question democracy, human rights and women's rights. Racism, sexism and homophobia are at the heart of the growing right-wing nationalist movements in Europe. The Left Party is pushing feminism forward in the EU. We demand economic justice for women. We defend the right to legal and safe abortions, as well as women's sexual and reproductive health and LGBT rights, and we fight all forms of gender-based violence. We stand up to the right-wing conservative forces who want to reduce our lives. The EU needs more feminists. Madam President, I would like Safe employment and decent working conditions are the basis for a safe society where people can make a living and plan their lives. Whether we are Swedes, Poles or French, we all need decent work and safe working conditions. Today it doesn't look like that. EU labour market policy puts business needs above workers' rights. Workers are being pitted against each other with an obvious risk of downward pressure on workers' wages and conditions. Serious companies with good employment conditions can be competed out by companies that dump the social conditions in order to squeeze prices. Often foreign labour is exploited ruthlessly. It is also often the foreign labour force that is blamed for the dumped working conditions and for racism that is spreading in our workplaces. The solution is, of course, to guarantee all workers, regardless of where they come from, equal conditions and wages as domestic workers. The Left Party wants the EU to include in the Treaties that decent working conditions and social rights should be valued at least as high as the free movement of services and capital – a so-called social protocol. A social protocol makes respect for collective agreements and laws that protect workers a condition for labour mobility, which is good for equality in Europe. Madam President, I would like The EU has been used as an instrument to spread the idea of policy being governed by experts and bureaucrats who cannot be influenced by popular opinion. The Left Party wants to democratise the EU by giving less power to EU bureaucrats, Commissioners and judges and more power to national parliaments, such as the Parliament. We want to limit the presence of lobbyists in Europe. In a people-run Europe, the EU should not be able to impose right-wing policies on countries with cuts in welfare. Sweden should have an independent economic policy, and those countries that want to leave the euro should be able to do so. It is we citizens who, through our elected representatives, are to govern politics, not the EU bureaucrats. Madam President, I would like For some time now, there have been regimes in several parts of the world that want to limit democratic space, especially the space of civil society, by restricting opportunities for action and by threatening, violence and restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms. Between 2014 and 2016, more than 60 countries adopted similar legislations that in various ways impair or hinder the ability of organisations to receive international support. The scale is very worrying, and it is also worrying that states are inspired by each other in their efforts to hinder democratic development. Europe is no exception. A clear conclusion from the organisations that look into this is that developments in democracy in several places are perhaps the worst in Europe at the moment – but of course from better levels. The Left Party believes that Sweden must work actively both within the EU and the Council of Europe to reverse this negative and worrying development. During Viktor Orbán's time in power, Hungary has had a worrying development and limited freedom for the media, universities and civil society. A law adopted in June 2017 prevents organisations from receiving external grants. Poland is another example. There restrictions have been imposed on the right of demonstration, and reports from Amnesty talk about how police harass demonstrators and try to prevent people from taking part in protests. Hungary and Poland are often pointed out, and rightly so, but we should be clear that we can see these developments in many countries. In 2014, the United Kingdom adopted a law on not being able to run campaigns in connection with elections. The aim of the law is said to be to prevent companies and lobbyists from influencing the election results, but it also strikes hard at human rights and charitable organisations that want to put their issues on the agenda. In Spain, the right of demonstration has been restricted, and there has been a lot of violence against people who have wanted to demonstrate. France has had a two-year state of emergency that was repealed in 2017, but the laws of emergency were then included in new legislation. Madam President, I would like In a number of motions, the Left Party has clarified our position on Swedish arms exports and the need for a ban on the export of arms to countries that violate human rights and freedoms and to dictatorships and belligerent states. At European level, too, we must strive for a regulatory framework that prohibits the export of war material to countries that violate human rights and countries that commit acts of war. The government should therefore work to ensure that the EU Guidelines on Armaments Exports contain a ban on exports to these countries. Having said that, I would like to support the Left Party's reservation 14, although we also have five other reservations in this report.
i-658d12276c5cf663-866	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to support the reservations of the Christian Democrats, and I call for the approval of Amendment No 15. As many speakers have said, it is an eventful and significant year for European cooperation that lies behind us. Much has revolved around Britain's withdrawal from the Union, the issue of climate change and migration and refugee policy, to name but a few examples. At the same time, the EU's overall economy has continued to grow. For the sixth year in a row, GDP in all 28 Member States has increased. Unemployment has decreased and, thanks to efforts to improve the efficiency of the internal market, entrepreneurship and competitiveness have been strengthened. The conclusion of this is that even in the past year, 2018, European cooperation has been crucial in terms of security, growth and welfare. Despite this, European cooperation, as we all know, faces challenges. Since the European Parliament elections in 2014, we have seen the largest flows of refugees since the Second World War. We have seen a single currency in crisis. The failure of Brexit has overturned the belief in cohesion in the Union, and growing Islamism threatens Europe's security. In addition, Member States such as Hungary, Poland and Romania have questioned the fundamental values of the Union – whether liberal democracy is worth preserving. Faced with these problems, a strong and united Europe is absolutely central and even a political necessity. Madam President, I would like Politics is basically about ideology and human vision. For the Christian Democrats, this means that, in connection with decision-making and opinion-forming, we highlight the importance of personal freedom in combination with social responsibility and solidarity with the most vulnerable. In other words, these are the values which have been the basis of the European community of values for decades and which, combined with freedom of movement, are the greatest asset of European cooperation. Today, Europe needs leadership that sees the profound importance of reconciliation between nations and peoples and acts for a community built on more than economy and money. This is essential, not least in relation to the outside world. Whether it be the war in Syria, the dictatorship in Iran, the development in Russia or the persecution of Christians, the EU has the opportunity to make a difference. That is why the Christian Democrats are working for a Europe that speaks with one voice in foreign policy and which always gives the highest priority to human dignity and human rights. Our promise in the run-up to the European elections five years ago was to combine the vision of cooperation and cooperation between the countries of Europe with a vigilance in terms of subsidiarity. Ideologically, this is borne up by the Christian Democratic principle of subsidiarity, which is that political decision-making should take place at the lowest and most appropriate level. When we Christian Democrats analyse decision-making in Brussels on the basis of our values of personal freedom and power sharing, we choose to be clear: the European institutions and decision-makers need to show a greater understanding that there are limits to what can and should be done at European level. Without this understanding, if a Europe that is appropriate, the foundations of the European idea and of the Union's people are threatened. For Swedish Christian Democracy, subsidiarity is both a driving force and a challenge. That is why it was an important success when the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats agreed with our proposal from the electoral movement for a special Commissioner for subsidiarity. The proposal was, I am pleased to say, also a reality when Jean-Claude-Claude Juncker allocated responsibilities in the newly elected Commission in November 2014. Madam President, I would like Following the British Brexit referendum in 2016, the waves of debate have been high in terms of European cooperation and the future of the EU. It has caused the advocates of federalism to air morning air but also the forces that are working for a weakened Europe. As warm friends of Europe, with respect for the Member States' own decision-making rights, the Christian Democrats stand for a clear alternative in the debate on the future. Let me give a few brief examples. The first example is the EU budget. When the UK leaves the EU, there will be a gap in the common budget. At the same time, the Union continues to face important and major tasks requiring funding. How to reconcile this equation is discussed intensively. Some propose EU tax and substantially increased membership fees. Re-priorities within an already too large budget," says the Christian Democrats. The second example is defence cooperation. The question of how the EU can be used to strengthen Europe's security in a situation where instability and uncertainty are increasing is highly relevant. Cooperation on research, material development and individual peacekeeping operations is important and should be welcomed. But the polarisation of the debate creates a lock-up – on the one hand, there are left-wing parties, who see ghosts in the form of increased militarisation; on the other hand, there are Member States such as France, which are working for a common European army. The Christian Democrats' answer to this question is NATO. For decades, the defence alliances of Western democracies have contributed to peace and security in Europe and the world, and we will build on that. Parallel military structures in Europe create more problems than they solve. The third example is social issues. As we know, the Swedish Government and European Social Democrats have made it their main task to create a so-called social pillar. Despite the fact that this concerns policies that are national competences, the Left has brought the European Commission into this project, which would entail a historically extensive and far-reaching transfer of power to Brussels. The Christian Democrats say yes to social reforms and functioning welfare throughout Europe, but no to Swedish welfare policy and Swedish parental insurance being decided in Brussels. The way forward for Europe in 2019 and beyond is effective cooperation that is able to deliver solutions to cross-border problems – more solidarity and responsible cooperation and close cooperation with respect for diversity.
i-658d12276c5cf663-884	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have gone to European elections to imitate Trumps's slogan: Make the EU just right again. Despite the fact that Lars Adaktusson and the Christian Democrats are in the EU's largest group, which is in a lot of power and has all the heavy positions, they try a little in time for the European elections to appear as EU critics – at least a little in time. KD's reservation No 15 says that the EU speaks with one voice in foreign policy is essential for the interests of the Member States. It is easy to get the impression that we would have a little more common foreign policy in the KD's just enough EU. But following Trump, not only in terms of slogans but also in political action, seems to have become KD's new thing. Let me give you a few examples. There is talk of common foreign policy in the EU. But when the EU says that it wants a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine, the KD, like Trump, wants to move the Embassy of Sweden to Jerusalem, something that the EU has condemned in its common foreign policy. Lars Adaktusson also received Israeli settlers two weeks ago who do not recognise the occupation of Palestine and who advocate the expulsion of Palestinians from their land. A month ago Lars Adaktusson travelled to Colombia and was keynote speaker at a meeting for opponents of abortion and homophobes. Many have called this meeting a hate meeting. These are three examples of Christian Democrats following Trumps's policy closely in the tracks. Madam President, I would like I do not believe that the Christian Democrats want to make the European Union fit for purpose. I believe that the Christian Democrats want to make the EU a place of raw, cold right-wing politics that strikes women, LGBTI activists and peace activists. It is not a good Europe.
i-658d12276c5cf663-892	Madam President, I would like If Håkan Svenneling had listened to what I said about subsidiarity, he would have understood that it means that power can be moved both up and down. There are several areas in the major challenges that Europe is facing today where we do not need less supranationality, but rather more. That is the essence of subsidiarity. One example of this is the climate issue. There we do not need less cooperation in Europe, but more. The fight against organised crime and terrorism is also an area where we do not need less cooperation, but we need more cooperation to wrestle down the forces that threaten our security. It is the same in terms of increased competitiveness. We need more cooperation and a better functioning internal market and better functioning free movement in Europe in order for Europe to have an opportunity to assert itself in the competition that prevails around the world. The same applies in the field of foreign policy. Without the EU speaking with one voice, our ability as a continent to make any difference at all is reduced. That is why foreign policy is also an important area in which we need more cooperation, not less. I would like to end with two questions. What evidence does Håkan Svenneling have of his claim that I have invited settlers activists to the Riksdag? What evidence does Håkan Svenneling have of the accusation that I have been keynote speaker at a hate conference? Tell the Swedish people in the Parliament's pulpit where the evidence is!
i-658d12276c5cf663-897	Madam President, I would like The principle of subsidiarity feels like something you cannot resist, because it is basically a very nice idea that the right thing should be decided at the right level. I do not want municipalities around Sweden to start legislating, because that is something we are doing here in the Swedish Parliament. I often hear about the idea of subsidiarity in Europe, but I see it very rarely. I myself have worked with EU bureaucracy, as an EU bureaucrat, to manage EU support. I never saw the principle of subsidiarity near my work. It was always somewhere else – a good distance away, where you didn't understand how reality was locally in Värmland – that you decided how it should be done. Therefore, I often feel that these are more fine words than actual reality. You can take the examples that Lars Adaktusson is interested in. I think it's important to highlight the military, as he did. France clearly states that it wants an EU army. We in the Left Party say: We do not want that. The Swedish people do not want that. There are many peoples in Europe who do not want us to do some kind of defence alliance. As far as organised crime is concerned, we know that Eppo, this prosecutor's office, will investigate terrorist offences despite the fact that all 28 Member States have different laws. How are we gonna do that? At least I haven't figured out how to do it. What legislation should it be in which country? With regard to climate and the internal market, the problem is precisely that the climate is not above the internal market. The internal market is always above the climate. This means that the EU is often an obstacle to climate change. But it is clear that we are going to solve the climate issue, and then the EU level is better than trying to do this here in the Swedish Parliament. When it comes to foreign policy, the EU sometimes speaks jointly, and it becomes a stronger and more powerful statement. But that really isn't always what comes the most forward. Lars Adaktusson wanted me to present evidence. I think it is rather the opposite. It is Lars Adaktusson who will present his evidence. Why is he attending these meetings? Why does he invite these people? It's him rather than me who's going to present evidence. We know it's happened. He needs to answer why he did it.
i-658d12276c5cf663-904	Madam President, I would like We know that this has happened, says Håkan Svenneling of these allegations. Then I'll prove the opposite. We do not have a reversal of the burden of proof in Sweden. Håkan Svenneling accuses me of having been keynote speaker at a hate conference and of inviting settlers activists to the Riksdag. Håkan Svenneling! I give you an opportunity to take this back from the Parliament's pulpit or to prove that this is true.
i-658d12276c5cf663-907	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 16 in paragraph 5. It is a joint reservation by the Liberals, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats about Magnitsky sanctions in the EU. I began to engage politically in the autumn of 1994. I was then 17 years old. But I did not directly join the People's Party and the Liberal Youth League at the time, but I started to get involved in what was called 'Yes to Europe'. They campaigned for Sweden to become a member of the European Union. I got a lot of stickers that said, vote yes for the kids! Vote yes for the sake of the economy! Vote yes for the sake of the environment! Vote yes for the job! There was one where it said: vote yes for the women! In fact, there was nothing that said: vote yes for the men! But there was one where it said: vote yes for the women! I walked around all over Kärrtorp and Skarpnäck and put up stickers on lampposts. It then turned out that that electoral district was the only one in Stockholm City where there was a 'no' majority in the referendum, but I do not think it was necessarily the result of my particular effort. It occurred to me that at the time European cooperation was regarded as the future. The Cold War was over. The apartheid system had run into the dirtiest sewers in history. The Soviet Union had collapsed. At that time no one really knew who Vladimir Putin, Recep Tayyip Erdo中an or Donald Trump were. Well, Trump was known but not as a politician. You looked forward. There were enormous tragedies around the world, including in Europe, such as the war in Bosnia. But there was a forward spirit and a belief that globalisation, free trade and democracy had really come to stay. Today, 25 years later, I am forced to go out into a European election movement and argue for why this cooperation is needed at all – in front of people who say we should have swede. In practice, this applies to two parties in here, even if they do not speak so loudly about it at the moment. We have seen the Brexit vote in Britain and the enormous chaos that has followed it. But above all, we see a wave of authoritarian states and gapheads. It is populism and extremism that are spreading. It's a kind of bully mentality in social media and so on. We have a much tougher climate today. Above all, we see how democracy goes back in many areas. For me as a Liberal, this is a very worrying development. I want Europe to be a dynamic, democratic, free and socially committed continent, where people get more freedom, where people can be lifted out of poverty and where we look forward. From this perspective, Madam President, there is no other way forward than to deepen European cooperation. For we are facing challenges in terms of climate threats, huge flows of refugees, the collapse of our surrounding world, in North Africa and Syria, and the huge problems that exist in Russia. There are problems both internally in Russia and in Russia's actions towards its neighbours and so on. The consequence of this is that we must jointly take the long-term strategic decisions for our continent. When the southern European countries were freed from the fascist yoke and military juntas of the 1970s, they became members of European cooperation. When the Eastern European countries were freed from the socialist and communist yoke, they became members of the European Union. What we are facing now is to support and strengthen in various ways those countries that want to move closer to the European Union. These are countries that are close to us but are not yet members of the European Union. It is about tying them closer to us, integrating them into our markets, giving people the opportunity to come here and work, giving students the opportunity to easily study in other countries in Europe and so on. It is about Ukraine, Georgia, Armenia and countries in the Western Balkans that are not yet members of the European Union: Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and so on. I do not exactly share the conclusions of Lars Adaktusson and the Christian Democrats, but it is also about the debate on the future of the European Union that is now taking place, about the way forward. Madam President, I would like Finally, let me touch on another area which, unfortunately, has not yet received the attention it should receive. This applies to what is happening now in Turkey and the forthcoming re-election in Istanbul. Let us note that Istanbul is the fourth largest city in the world, after Shanghai, Beijing and Karachi. It is Europe's largest city. What is very important in principle to understand and what is new in Turkish policy is that the political regime in the country does not recognise an officially confirmed election result. It is therefore a country that is running for membership of the European Union and which annuls an officially established election result in a city of 15 million inhabitants. This, of course, has to do with the fact that Istanbul is a central block in the grandiose project of President Erdo中an to transform Turkey into an Islamic authoritarian state with a rough-handed President with almost unlimited powers. If the President of Turkey loses control of Istanbul, it means losing control of mega-projects, such as the new channel linking the Sea of Marmara to the Black Sea. One loses control of the new airport and many other major projects. Very much of the corruption that exists in Turkey is also linked to the Istanbul economy. This cannot be accepted by the European Union and the outside world. We must be extremely clear at this point: on the one hand, we must criticise the annulment of the election results of the mayors' elections in Istanbul and, on the other hand, we must be very clear that if Turkey intends to be a democracy, there are certain rules of the game that democracies should follow. These rules do not include exercising power in the way that the President of Turkey and his party, the AKP, are doing in alliance with the MHP party at the moment. I wish that there would also be a clearer signal from Sweden on this issue, that is to say that Turkey's actions in relation to Istanbul are clearly condemned. I remain there, Madam President, and apologise for having oversold my speaking time by a few minutes.
i-658d12276c5cf663-930	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by commending Fredrik Malm for the criticism he is making of Turkey and its leader, President Erdo中an, and his way of dealing with the elections in Istanbul. I fully share Fredrik's criticism. I have been thinking about something quite different, and that is whether the Liberals are Sweden's most naive party. In the run-up to the elections, the message is yes and yes. One difference with the KD is that what the Liberals are running here in Parliament is consistent with what they are running in the European Parliament. To say no to a proposal from the European Commission is not in the DNA of a liberal, if I have understood correctly. We are in favour of increased EU budget, we are in favour of EU tax, we want EMU in Sweden and we want a banking union so that we can pay for bad Italian banks. I can probably use my entire speaking time to list things that the Liberals are in favour of in Europe. In this European elections, the Liberals are making a strong case for intelligence cooperation. One of the problems of the Liberals in this case is that not all governments in Europe are liberal nowadays, but far too many are on the right with nationalists, right-wing extremists and so on. This means, for example, that when you have cooperation on intelligence, you share with governments who may then run on with the information to countries to which we do not want you to run on with information. I wonder if the Liberals see any danger that Sweden has a deeper EU cooperation with Orbán Hungary, Salvinis Italy or Babiš Czech Republic. Is there a proposal from the European Commission that the Liberals reject? Is it somewhere where supranationality in the EU is not a liberal universal solution to all possible problems?
i-658d12276c5cf663-934	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling only tells half the truth. He says the Liberals say yes and yes, but the whole truth is that on our election posters we also say oui and sí. Right should be right in this. I'd love to have seen us say a kyllä, too. Then Håkan Svenneling is wrong about the EU fee. It is not that the Liberals are some enthusiastic supporters of an increased Swedish membership fee to the EU. We have never said this, but we would like to see a reduction in areas such as agricultural aid and an increase in other areas, such as research and other things. But of course we have to be realists here. There are extremely strong forces that are not prepared to do so in some areas as much as we want. This means that, as a result of Brexit, if the British are now leaving the EU, they can come to a situation where the fee is increased. I do not think it will be at the levels now outlined by the Commission, but it may come to such a situation. It will be interesting if other parties in Sweden intend to block the entire EU budget on this issue. It sounds like that in the debate now, but I am not sure that will happen in the end. As far as intelligence cooperation is concerned, of course, a great deal is happening that we do not know about between security services and military intelligence services and others, both in democratic states and in states and regimes of the more rough-handed kind. However, if we look across Europe today with the organised threat that exists from terrorists, for example, we see that we will need enhanced cooperation in the field of intelligence in order to protect our democracy. This is something we support.
i-658d12276c5cf663-938	Madam President, I would like I think the Liberals would say yes in all the languages of the European Union, because that is the feeling that the Liberals have towards the European Union. Like Fredrik Malm, one of Parliament's new tasks is to negotiate the new long-term budget for seven years. The European Commission has put forward a draft budget ranging from 1% of GDP to 1.14% of GDP. It doesn't sound like it's so much, but if you look at what it's all about in real money you can see that it's 105 billion Swedish kronor over the next seven years or an increase of 37.5 percent. I would call this a tax shock. It is perhaps not so often that left-wing parties use that expression, but you usually hear it from the bourgeois side. The Left Party wants to reduce the EU budget. We want to bring the EU's inefficient and unfair agricultural policy back to the national level so that we can invest in the countryside and agriculture that we want to see ourselves, with high ambitions for good animal welfare with low antibiotic use and, above all, for how to achieve our climate goals. The money we spend should be used to increase equality, both within countries and in Europe, and to solve the climate challenges, not to increase militarisation and, above all, not to save speculative banks or have an inhuman migration policy, as we see today. I believe that if we are to take seriously the fight about the EU budget, we must be tough. If the government and Hans Dahlgren are to go down to Brussels and negotiate the budget, there must be strong support. Even now, like the Liberals and partly the Center Party, to say that it's okay, we can pay for this huge tax shock, there's no problem and Sweden is always here as a net payer ready to do that when no one else wants to pay. I am very concerned about this. I am also concerned that the Liberals want to reduce the defence tax by 5 billion, increase defence by 25 billion and give the EU 15 billion more per year. That is as much as we have in aid budgets. Somewhere the Liberals' economic policy does not go together, and one wonders if you have a banknote press in the basement, Fredrik Malm. Who will pay the price for your blinded love of Europe?
i-658d12276c5cf663-944	Madam President, I would like I think Håkan Svenneling misunderstands certain things here. Supporting enhanced European cooperation does not mean saying yes to just all the proposals that come from the European Commission. We don't. We have never done that, but we stand for our liberal policy. We are an independent party in the Swedish parliament, just like other parties here. In Swedish history, there is only one example of a political party in the Swedish parliament that has said yes to just everything that comes from another state, and it happens to be Håkan Svenneling's own party during the Comintern years, from 1919. They were section parties in the Comintern from 1921 until 1943. There are no other such examples. Of course, we value the political proposals that come from the content of the proposals. Madam President, I would like In conclusion, I would like to say that, for me as a Liberal and Democrat, EU cooperation is not ultimately about a certain exactly fixed level of money and money, but for me it is about values and how we are to deal with the common challenges facing our continent. To be honest, I am not entirely fixated on exact levels in Sweden either when it comes to taxes and other things. It may be that we need to raise certain taxes and lower others to make our economy work. The total lock-up of some parties at precise per mille levels in terms of budget and other matters is somewhat in conflict with my view of European cooperation. I think it has a value in itself that we cooperate together and solve the challenges we face.
i-658d12276c5cf663-947	Madam President, I would like We live in a time we never thought we'd come to again. Authoritarian tendencies are strengthened in country after country. The rating-based global order is under attack. Protectionism and nationalism threaten to strangle the world. Now more than ever, we need a strong and united European voice in the world that can stand up for the defence of international law and the inviolable human rights and freedoms and which can be a voice for women's freedom, a voice for our earth and for the climate. If Europe is to be the voice for peace, freedom and progressiveness that the world is looking for, we must start by cleaning up our own doors. That is why today I would like to highlight two crucial issues concerning the legitimacy of the European Union. Firstly, it concerns respect for the principles of the rule of law and human rights. Secondly, it is about reducing inequality, both between the EU Member States and within the countries. In recent years we have seen a regrettable development. In the annual report of the Democracy Institute Freedom House, EU Member States have always been classified as completely free. However, in the 2019 report, the EU has for the first time been given a partially free country – Hungary. Hungary has repeatedly received criticism over the last decade from the EU institutions, the UN, the Council of Europe, the OSSE and a number of other independent organisations for insufficient compliance with human rights. Criticism has been directed against deviations from democracy and the rule of law in the conduct of fair elections, a lack of separation of powers and an increasingly politically controlled judiciary. The scope for civil society has also been limited by the Hungarian Government on the grounds that some organisations threaten national security by engaging in activities that help refugees. Journalists are being discredited, and a number of newspapers and television and radio stations have now been taken over by government-controlled actors. The right-wing Conservative Government has not dissociated itself from restrictions on free speech and harassment of journalists, but rather encouraged continuation. On 12 September 2018, the European Parliament voted in favour of a proposal to activate the Article 7(1) alert in respect of Hungary for deficiencies and limitations in the various rights and freedoms of the country. It should be pointed out that the Swedish Democrats then chose not to support the warning procedure to Hungary. Several leading Swedish democrats, including MEP Kristina Winberg, have instead made statements that the Hungarian Prime Minister and party leader of the right-wing populist party Fidesz, Viktor Orbán, is a political model. Madam President, I would like Developments in Poland are also very worrying. Since 2015, when the ultra-conservative party Law and Justice gained its own majority in parliament and formed a government, the country has taken major steps towards a more authoritarian government. The situation of the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms in Poland is in real danger. Poland now has an abortion law that is one of the most restrictive in Europe. Access to legal abortions is also threatened when doctors are able to refuse abortions on the basis of a conscience clause. According to civil society organisations, the number of hate crimes against minorities has increased, especially against Muslims and LGBT people. The Public Prosecutor's Office in Poland registered about twice as many reported hate crimes in 2016 as in 2013. Madam President, I would like The anti-democratic forces in Europe are mobilizing. So do the right-wing extremists in the European Parliament. They are not just using Parliament as a platform for their conspiracy theories and lies. They use their votes to weaken employees' rights and restrict women's rights to their own bodies. Many of them want to divide the Union once and for all. In the 1990s they were about ten representatives. Today, they're over 100. According to forecasts, there may be even more of them. We have to stop them. There is another Europe. It is a Europe in which we work together to benefit not only the market but also the people. It is a Europe in which we have free movement but never free exploitation of workers and in which Europe creates a common labour market that does not crush the dreams of employees but ensures that they are realised. It is a Europe where cross-border threats are met by cross-border cooperation. It is a Europe that is resistant to political and religious extremists, because safe, equal and equal people are so much more difficult to incite to hate each other. What Europe we want will be decided in the forthcoming European elections. The Social Democratic entrance is that we need to keep up the pressure on those countries that violate the values of the European Union. We want to introduce a new mechanism to review the EU Member States' compliance with fundamental rights, the rule of law and democracy and to complete work on the legislative proposal to withdraw funds from EU funds from Member States that have systematic threats to the rule of law. Above all, we want to strengthen social security in Europe. When people have livelihoods and can feel secure and confident in the future, the breeding ground for fear and extremism decreases. I am proud that the government has worked for us to have a social pillar in place in the EU – a handshake on social justice at intergovernmental level that goes well hand in hand with the adopted objectives of Agenda 2030. The 20 principles of the social pillar lay down, inter alia, the right to education, equal pay for equal work for women and men, and the right of workers to a fair salary that allows for a fair standard of living. Madam President, I would like Right-wing populists, whether they are right-wing parties such as the National Marine Le Pen collection or bourgeois parties which have gone extremely right-wing as Hungarian Fidesz, should not be allowed to shape the future of the European Union. Their ideas are part of Europe's dark past. People in Sweden and Europe should be free to develop as individuals, control their own lives and shape their lives according to their own desires and by being able to influence their own society. These are the preconditions for equality and freedom, and that is the prerequisite for the legitimacy of the EU as a global player. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-658d12276c5cf663-965	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! The European Union is perhaps the most successful political union in the world. It is a unique project since its inception in 1957, where Sweden has participated in almost a quarter of a century. It is a success, but it is also a necessary cooperation to cope with tasks that no country can manage on its own. During the previous term of office, the EU has taken several important steps forward. Emissions trading, as has been mentioned earlier here today, has been reversed. And the price has already risen considerably. It is important for the EU's climate action. Jobs and the social dimension have been put higher on the Union's agenda in the wake of the financial crisis. The EU has taken important steps to combat cross-border crime. The internal market has been strengthened. Businesses and consumers have great freedoms, but there is also protection and clear rights in this common market of ours. But not everything is positive. For the first time in the history of the EU, a Member State has decided to leave the Union. We have faced challenges in the form of a serious migration crisis. We have seen cruel terrorist crimes affecting several Member States – even us here in Sweden. All of this has put pressure on European cooperation. We have had a more polarised debate, and several Member States have refused to take responsibility for joint decisions. Madam President, I would like When the European Union began to form more than 60 years ago, efforts were made to bring peoples and countries together in an ever closer Union. It was based on common values, such as the equal value and rights of all human beings. These are values that may seem self-evident in our part of the world, but, as several speakers have touched on earlier today, these values are being called into question in several Member States as right-wing and nationalist forces grow stronger. In some countries these forces have even taken government power and gained direct political influence. These developments cannot be allowed to continue. Cooperation between us cannot be the same if some of the members do not accept the basic values. Nor can the EU be a strong voice in the world for democracy, for freedom of expression and for the independence of the rule of law unless all Member States also stand up for these values at home. In the case of Poland and Hungary, the government fully supports the use of the article of the EU Treaty which could ultimately lead to a loss of voting rights. We also support the proposal for a new review mechanism for all Member States regarding respect for the principles of the rule of law. However, it needs to be done even more – and more forcefully – to strengthen and protect our democratic values in Europe. In the next decision on the long-term budget for the EU, the government is pushing for a conditionality that is linked precisely to respect for the principles of the rule of law. We are also pushing that countries that have not taken responsibility for migration should not have the same access to EU funds as they would otherwise have had. It's supposed to cost you not to take responsibility. Madam President, I would like The budget that the EU will follow in the future needs to be adapted to the new challenges ahead. The government is therefore prepared to re-prioritise, focusing on areas where the EU's efforts really have the greatest added value. These are areas such as climate, migration, security, innovation, research and development. That's the most important thing. However, this must be paid for, and we do not want to increase the EU budget. That is why we must also reduce agricultural aid and regional aid as we invest in new things. With Europe now becoming richer and having greater prosperity, it is not reasonable to spend as much on regional cohesion. Nor can it be reasonable for 40% of the EU budget to go towards agricultural aid that drives up land prices and, furthermore, makes it more difficult for young people to start farming. When the British leave the EU, now that it is, there will be a gap in the budget. The Union's expenditure must be adapted to that; we need to correct the mouth after the lunch. We must keep the Swedish levy down, and we want a fair burden-sharing in terms of what all Member States pay. Sweden and a few other countries should not have to pay more than is right. Madam President, I would like The threat posed by climate change is a real existential issue. The warming that is going on not only threatens our economy, human health and the cohesion of countries – I think it is absolutely crucial to solve the climate crisis if this planet is to be habitable for future generations at all. Here too, the European Union has a key role to play in leading climate-smart development and setting more ambitious climate targets, and in ensuring that the Paris Agreement is actually implemented and global warming is kept below 1.5 degrees. We want to see a binding target where our net emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases will be zero across the EU by 2050. This will be an asset not only for the environment, but also through climate change, new jobs, new industries, new businesses and green jobs can be created. Jobs and growth issues are also at the heart of the government's EU priority. We want to develop the internal market, we want to remove several barriers to trade, we want to promote the digital market and we want to make services as mobile as goods. But we also want to ensure that the internal market benefits everyone. The jobs created should be decent; it should not be possible to compete within the EU with lower wages or lower working conditions. In order to do the jobs, Europe and the EU need to stand better in global economic competition. This requires more investment in innovation, research and development. We also need a balanced debate on EU industrial policy, which takes into account both competition in our own internal market and the EU's global competitiveness. We shall also continue to stand up for free trade – even at a time when multilateral systems are being called into question in several places. Madam President, I would like The issue of migration is another European challenge. Here in Sweden, we have changed our migration policy after the large influx in 2015. Now we accept fewer asylum seekers, while others receive more. It's more fair. Protecting people who are fleeing war and persecution and thus have the right to asylum is a common European responsibility. We need to create a system of legal certainty in which everyone takes that responsibility. Another area where joint action needs to be strengthened is security and defence. Through better cooperation, we can more easily combat international terrorism, more quickly detect other organised crime and also strengthen the EU's capacity for conflict prevention crisis management and resolution. Madam President, I would like The coming months will be important in defining the future of Europe. First, we need to clear up this Brexit thing. The government, of course, hopes that there will be an orderly withdrawal so that the British will not crash out of the EU. We want a strong relationship with the United Kingdom even after the withdrawal. Then there are the elections on Sunday next week, as well as the summit that will follow – in midsummer, in June – and where the strategic agenda for the next five years of the European Union will be determined. After that, it is time to start working and realize all these goals. I very much hope that it will be possible to do so with great consideration of what is Sweden's interests in this cooperation. The work on these interests is constantly strengthened by the commitment that exists in our country – now stronger than ever – behind the fundamental ideas and values of European cooperation.
i-658d12276c5cf663-982	Madam President, I would like Yes, Minister, it's time to get to work! But before that, we're going to have a real debate. European cooperation should focus on areas that bring real added value to Europe's population. In this context, it is important that we safeguard national competences in areas such as labour market, family law and taxation. National competence is worthy of protection. It should not be used as an elastic band. It is a question of legitimising the European Union. Although there has been an increase in support for the European Union these days, it can easily be changed and, above all, when people perceive the European Union as being in and poking at things that it has nothing to do with. The conditions and traditions of the Member States are very different. In Sweden, for example, wage setting is handled by the social partners, and other systems have been chosen in other Member States. In spite of this, there are forces that want the EU to get involved in this. The 20 principles of the social pillar contain far-reaching and detailed ambitions in these areas. The concern of the Moderates that the social pillar would provide a basis for pushing forward EU legislation which, in some cases, infringes the Swedish model, has unfortunately come true. A real social Europe is being achieved by increasing economic prosperity and ensuring stability, freedom and democracy for Europe's citizens. Making Europe stronger is not the same as making Europe wider.
i-BAqU45QmCBxMFLGvic8E77	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for the question. The social pillar is about 20 principles which in no way transfer any power of decision under the Treaty from national competence to the institutions in Brussels. It is a common position of the 28 governments of the European Union on equal opportunities and access to the labour market, fair working conditions, social protection and social inclusion. Not anywhere in the text on the social pillar, which I have before me, does it say anything about moving decisions on wage formation to the European institutions. On the contrary, it states that pay should be transparent and predictable in accordance with national practice and with respect for the independence of the social partners. ..................................................... It's not moving a border, it's having it the way it is. But you have respect for the interests that exist here.
i-658d12276c5cf663-990	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Strong proposals are being made. We can take the text of the directive on predictable working conditions. It is said that that Directive contributes primarily to the implementation of Pillar 5 on safe and adaptable employment and No 7 on information, conditions of employment and protection in the event of dismissal. That is a very sharp proposal. The text of the Regulation on the European Labour Authority proposal states that the proposed Regulation will contribute to the implementation of the principles and rights set out in the European Pillar of Social Rights. Surely the government must see the link with the social pillar? He can't deny that it leads to sharp suggestions, can he? We are then at the European debate we have in Sweden. How much Europe is it supposed to be? I would argue that Europe is the best when Europe is good at what it is relevant to. In my previous speech, I have indicated a number of areas in which we Moderates and many other parties see that Europe should be able to become stronger. But here it is a question of diluting the EU by giving it more and more tasks. These are tasks which, according to subsidiarity, should be put on the table of the individual nation states. It is not giving the EU any more muscle or legitimacy. We need a policy in Europe that strengthens competitiveness and creates the conditions for jobs and growth and builds on the internal market, as the Government rightly said. However, the social pillar does not contribute to this. The social pillar contributes to thinning.
i-658d12276c5cf663-995	Madam President, I would like I would like to say to Mr Rothenberg's second reply that it is clear that it is possible to refer to what is in the text that all the Member States of the European Union have supported when making proposals. We will have to test each one of those proposals as they come forward. There may be differences of opinion as to their relevance regardless of the reference made to the text. It is not the case that the decision on the social pillar has decided that the EU should manage decisions on labour market issues, working conditions, wages or social security in any other way than it has done in the past. It is one way of showing that European governments are also taking account of it. Freedom of movement is not just about what companies should be allowed to do and about being allowed to send goods and services freely across national borders. Those who work in the industries that manufacture goods and services should also have their rights. It is well expressed in the various chapters.
i-658d12276c5cf663-998	Madam President, I would like The war in Yemen has created the world's worst ongoing humanitarian disaster. Over 22 million people need humanitarian aid, more than 3 million are on the run in the country, and 85 000 children are believed to have died of starvation. The war began in March 2015 by Saudi Arabia and its allies when air raids were made against the Huthirebelles in Yemen. They, in turn, have the support of Saudi Arabia's archenemy Iran. Saudi Arabia is one of the world's largest arms buyers, by far the largest in the Middle East. Between 2013 and 2017, 34% of the weapons that Saudi Arabia bought came from the EU. The coalition fighting the Huthirebelles also consists of Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Egypt, Jordan, Morocco and Sudan, in addition to Saudi Arabia. The European Parliament has adopted several resolutions calling for arms embargoes against the states that are part of the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen. Parliament believes that the export of arms to Saudi Arabia, for example, is contrary to the EU's own rules. Parliament's decision means that the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign and Security Affairs, Federica Mogherini, has been given the task of producing a proposal for an arms embargo. The decision is also a clear signal to Member States to stop exporting arms to Saudi Arabia. Recently, the weapons of war used in Yemen were revealed. Among other things, Swedish Saab's radar and combat management system Erieye is used in the war. It is no longer possible to duck the partial responsibility that we in Sweden have for the enormous suffering in Yemen. Paragraph 70 of the January agreement between S, MP, L and C on which the new government rests states that: ..................................................... Halting the supply of weapons is an effective tool for putting pressure on the parties to the conflict. Does the government intend to press for the EU to impose an arms embargo on the states that are part of the Saudi-led coalition?
i-658d12276c5cf663-1004	Madam President, I would like What the government's attitude is to send weapons to Yemen or to countries acting in Yemen is clear from what Håkan Svenneling just quoted from the 73-point programme. As far as the EU's responsibility in this area is concerned, I believe that it was already in the late 1980s that the Member States agreed to establish common rules for the control of arms exports, even if it is still national competence. There are criteria to be applied by all Member States in the examination of individual export cases. That, of course, is also the case. These include respect for human rights, but also the risk that an armed conflict may continue or worsen. Sweden is a strong promoter of strict and clear regulations for arms exports. But I would ask you to come back to exactly what can be decided in the European Community. I'm not clear on that right now.
i-658d12276c5cf663-1007	Madam President, I would like The Government emphasised in his speech that he wanted the EU to work in conflict prevention. Then I'd like to give you a tip: stop exporting weapons to dictatorships. I think that's very good. I really appreciate the principled approach that you have with three other parties. If we want to implement it seriously, I think we should push for an arms embargo also at European level. I understand it's hard. I understand that there are many Member States that will resist. However, if you are to stand up for feminist foreign policy and conflict prevention, you must also raise these issues at European level. I was going to change the question. We have touched on the EU budget many times. I appreciate the Council's clarity on these issues and that we do not think that the EU fee for Sweden should be increased. This is perhaps the single most important task that the Government has this year and perhaps throughout its term of office. It is the task of Minister Dahlgren to negotiate it. What you can feel as Swedish parliamentarians is that the EU is an association of 28 or 27 Member States. A budget is agreed. It lasts seven years, and it's super hard to change it. It's a long and tough negotiation that you'll be a big part of. What you often feel is powerlessness. The budget line that we decide on every year in Parliament – I think it is Category 26 – is not something that we can go in and change and say: we probably want to pay a little lower EU fee. Once it's settled, it's settled. It makes our power very weak. In fact, I wonder how the Government views the budgetary process. It will have a lot of obstacles, problems, closed negotiations, ongoing negotiations and so on. But what power do we have as net contributors? After all, it is Sweden that stands for the large part of the cake. We're the ones to cover for the British withdrawal. It will cost the Swedish taxpayer and mean a big tax shock if you do not negotiate very well.
i-658d12276c5cf663-1015	I would remind you that we are speaking through the President and not duning each other.
i-658d12276c5cf663-1016	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this second question from Håkan Svenneling! Thankfully, I am not the only one standing on the holding side of the negotiations that are now taking place. We are quite a few countries that absolutely do not accept that the British fallout should be compensated by taxpayers in our countries. At the same time, there are many requests for us to do more in important areas such as innovation, climate and defence. At the same time, there is also strong opposition to cutting back on what Sweden thinks is quite natural to reduce: the major lines of structural funds and agricultural policy. I heard the other day that there are 20 countries out of the 28 that have signed a paper that even opposes any reduction in the current level of agricultural aid. After all, the Commission has proposed a certain reduction. So it's going to be tough. It is sometimes said: how can you think that you will get through the idea of getting less money if you do not live up to the principles of the rule of law? The countries concerned can, of course, veto them. Then my answer is: we can do the same. We all have a veto, because the budget must be adopted unanimously. We have to agree on it, so it will be a giving and a taking. I dare not promise what the final charge will be and what will be in this area of expenditure in the next budget proposal, because it is not just because of our share of the budget. It also depends on how exchange rates have developed and how Sweden's economic growth is in relation to other countries' growth. It is therefore impossible to predict. But we can count on average, and as I very clearly said, our ambition is to keep the Swedish fee down. We also want a fair burden-sharing so that Sweden will not have to pay relatively more.
i-658d12276c5cf663-1022	Madam President, I would like It is quite clear that we can agree on a lot when we discuss Europe and the future of Europe. Some are the question of conditionality, where we share the view that it should apply. From the Center Party we would like to see the government and Minister Dahlgren also stand up for stronger climate targets, because that is what is needed in this situation. In order to do this, however, there is still one question: How hard should you look at everyone always having to be united? What is at risk of happening is that anyone who wants at least will determine the speed. What needs to be done, whether we are talking about human rights, democracy, climate issues, migration issues or anything else, is that we find a common understanding and do not allow any time to block development. A Europe at different speeds where a coalition of the willing pushes forward is something that one must be prepared to look at. Otherwise, we risk losing the whole thing. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to ask you about Magnitsky sanctions at European level. What are the government and Minister Dahlgren prepared to do to bring about a more powerful instrument of sanctions than what we have today to deal with human rights violations and corruption, which are destroying the EU?
i-51EDanYziavXLyHsSt63Vm	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kerstin Lundgren, for the questions! We want stronger climate targets. We want all EU countries and the European Union as a whole to set the target of net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. But we're not there yet. I know that the Prime Minister tried to push this forward in connection with the last European summit and get it into the conclusions. There is not general support for this yet, but we will of course continue to pursue it. As far as the EU is concerned at different speeds, I agree with Kerstin Lundgren; there are situations and activities where some could take precedence and where not everyone wants to be involved. We have several examples of this: we have a euro area that today has 19 countries. We have Schengen cooperation which does not involve all the Member States either. We have the European Public Prosecutor's Office, where not everyone is present, but where Sv erige may still be in the process of becoming a part of it. So there are such things, and I think we should be prepared for that to happen in the future. Then it is not good for the cohesion of the Union if it becomes too fragmented so that there are only a lot of different circles that sometimes overlap. There is, of course, a self-worth in that the vast majority are in most things. Finally, I shall say something about sanctioning instruments. I am very interested in the issue of sanctions. I once had the privilege of being an ambassador to the United Nations and chairing a Sanctions Committee there. If they are done right, sanctions are incredibly effective instruments that can change governments' minds. I think the best thing is if we can have as global sanctions as possible – that the entire UN membership is behind them. But we also have EU sanctions, and it is good that we have this tool. If we can have something at European level similar to the Magnitsky laws in other parts of the world – some EU countries already have them themselves – that is something that we are prepared to test positively. The answer is yes to that question.
i-658d12276c5cf663-1031	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. When it comes to the future of Europe, it is important that Europe is on the move and that no one is allowed to block. What we can see now, Madam President, is rather that those who want to least try to pull Europe back. We can also risk having a European Parliament after 26 May with the same ambition. I have seen notes saying that in principle we want to go back to almost the old economic union, where we retain the freedom of goods, services and capital, but in principle we strangle the freedom of people. That would be a basic shot against the EU. We must then offer alternatives, because otherwise Europe will lose its appeal to the world out there, but also to us as citizens. It is therefore important to try to work also on challenging those who want to and who are constantly challenging today to pull the EU apart and backwards. It is welcome if Magnitsky sanctions could be introduced at European level, but the issue has more or less been buried in a working group that is hardly progressing due to precisely unanimity requirements. The group is having trouble moving forward. That is also why we, on our part, have been prepared to allow Sweden to take the lead here too, together with other EU countries, in order to achieve a counter-force. I wonder: are the Government and the Government prepared to allow Sweden to take the lead with other countries and introduce Magnitsky sanctions, thereby influencing the rest of the EU to move forward?
i-658d12276c5cf663-1037	Madam President, I would like A brief answer to the last question is no. We are not prepared to do this now, but we want to continue to try to bring about a common order at European level. If it does not succeed, we will see if there is any other way to deal with the issue. With regard to the fact that some countries are in danger of slowing down the development of European work and perhaps withdrawing, I agree with this risk. We see this clearly in terms of, not least, the work of migration and the pursuit of joint responsibility. Of course, we also see this in the context of cooperation in the rule of law. But it must not be that some who do not want to do right should just get away with it. If so, it must cost them something that they are not part of joint responsibility. To stick together while those who are not involved really have to pay because they are not involved, I think are two things that we have to hold in our heads at the same time.
i-658d12276c5cf663-1040	Madam President, I would like I would like to say a few words on an issue which has been somewhat obscured in this report, and also in the electoral movement that we are in, but which actually affects us more than many people realise. Although Sweden has traditionally been spared, or relatively spared, from corrupt powers, for 25 years, membership of the European Union has gradually changed this situation, without any reaction or countermeasure from the left-wing liberal parties who have spoken in Sweden during this time. Combating corruption is on paper an objective of the European Union. This is clear, among other things, from the Treaties, but also from the mandates of some of the Union's authorities. I thought we'd take a look at the way things are going with that particular question. In 2010, the Commission asked the Council to come back with a comprehensive anti-corruption policy, which has still not happened, almost ten years later. Instead, in 2014 the Commission published a separate anti-corruption report to examine the seriousness of the problem and what Member States are doing to deal with it. According to the report, 76% of Europeans report corruption in their own country – 99% in Grekla nd, 97% in Italy and 95% in three other countries. About three quarters of Europeans say that bribes and contacts are the best way to access public services. Although the problem exists in society overall, public procurement is of course the worst hit d. The main reasons for this are lack of control mechanisms, lack of freedom of information, lack of transparency in lobbying and lack of protection for whistleblowers. According to the report, the cost of corruption and abuse of power within the Union is approximately SEK 1,200 billion per year, which is probably at a disadvantage. According to a summary prepared by the Greens/EFA Group in the European Parliament, the total cost instead amounts to almost unimaginable SEK 9 000 billion per year, which is a terrible sum of money. In the context of the publication of the anti-corruption report, the Commission announced that a follow-up was planned two years later to measure the impact of the measures taken on the situation. However, there is nothing at all to indicate that the Union's work has had any success whatsoever, a problem that Commissioner Frans solved in classical EU manners. He simply chose to put his head in the sand, scrap the follow-up and stop investigating how serious the problem actually is. In addition, Transparency International has sued the Commission under the EU Freedom of Information Regulation to obtain the available data, but the Commission has so far refused to disclose it. At the time of choosing to scrap the investigation, the Commission also made a statement which I think deserves to be read out in its entirety in this debate: ..................................................... Frans Timmermans, the Commissioner whose almost the only task for a few years has been to selectively evaluate, criticise, devalue and condemn domestic political decisions by his ideological opponents within the Union, says, at the same time, that it is not his task, all of a sudden, to interfere in the perhaps greatest cross-border problem facing the Union. The reason for this incredible hypocrisy is, of course, that his Socialist party friends in, among others, Romania and Bulgaria are the worst perpetrators. This is yet another proof that the Social Democrats are a party and a group that have lost interest in everything but power. What about developments since the first anti-corruption report was published? The Council of Europe Group of States against Corruption, a kind of working group, published its latest so-called Greco Report 2017, which concluded that new legislative initiatives in some Member States risk blurring previous important reforms and breaching the anti-corruption standards of the Council of Europe. Transparency International's 2018 Annual Report shows that the situation in EU countries has remained stable since the start of the measurement and that 16 out of 28 Member States are below the average of the corruption index of 65, which means that more than half of the Union's Member States have a worse situation in this area than countries such as Bhutan and Uruguay. The organisation's CEO Carl Dolan Dolan on the work as follows: ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Then why is this so important to us? As I said at the beginning, we in Sweden are relatively spared from this sort of thing. Because today the European Union is in practice a federal state building. Just as a chain is never stronger than its weakest link, a federation is never stronger than its weakest Member State. And, Madam President, the weakest Member States of this Union leave a great deal to be desired. Since we find ourselves in a situation where legislation is decided by politicians who can be demonstrably and literally bought for money, where public procurement is carried out for Swedish tax funds in countries where embezzlement and fraud are as common as eggs is on Easter, where the problem goes as far up as the government level in some Member States, where the Commission itself – that is, the EU government – was not so long ago caught demanding half a billion dollars in bribes from a Swedish company in exchange for legislation and where the political will for improvement shines with its absence, it is of the utmost importance that the Union starts to take this problem seriously. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose a number of concrete measures. Firstly, the Commission should immediately disclose the data contained in the secret report and decide on an update of the same report in the forthcoming legislative period. Secondly, the heavily corrupted Structural Funds must be cut substantially. Poorly planned and poorly supervised public investment risks making the situation worse rather than better. Thirdly, there is a need for a European equivalent of the Freedom of the Press Regulation, which would increase transparency. Fourthly, the EU's anti-corruption agency, Olaf, needs increased funding. Fifthly, the future long-term budget needs to contain rules that states that systematically subject the EU budget to fraud through intent, negligence or neglect should receive a reduction in EU funding. The Swedish Democrats are the only party that takes this issue seriously. We will never let ourselves be bought, and we will never sell out the confidence of our constituents. As a single party, we will push for transparency, for zero tolerance of abuse and waste and for a Union that embraces our administrative tradition instead of the other way round. I would therefore like to conclude by calling on Sweden to give us confidence in the forthcoming elections to the European Parliament and calling for the approval of our reservations Nos 2 and 18.
i-658d12276c5cf663-1062	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that there are very many issues that we could discuss in this debate given the number of areas affected by this European Yearbook. Since my party friend Lars Andersson has already explained the general view of the Swedish democrats on these issues in a commendable way, however, I did not intend to go into that much more. I was going to focus on a specific question on which I myself have worked very much, both here in Parliament and in the Council of Europe. Of course, Madam President, I am talking about Magnitsky sanctions. These are issues where we should have a rather common view, at least if you look at different statements. On 16 November 2009, Sergej Magnitsky fell asleep in his prison cell in Moscow after state-sanctioned physical and mental torture. He suffered as a result of being denied care after suffering from an inflamed pancreas. Magnitsky was a 37-year-old accountant and lawyer who became a threat to the Russian regime when he was able to bring forward information about theft and state fraud in the billion-dollar class in 2007. Magnitsky worked as a lawyer for financier Bill Browder, as many know, who was then Russia's largest foreign fund manager. Browder could reveal how corrupt government officials milked the Russian treasury of at least 230 million dollars. When these charges came too close to Russia's top management, he was subjected to slander, charges, detention and finally in 2005 to exile. After Magnitsky's passing, Browder has chosen to honour his memory by taking the fight against corruption forward, with good results. This is what we call Magnitsky sanctions or Magnitsky legislation. On December 14, 2012, U.S. President Barack Obama signed the so-called Magnitsky Act in the United States. The law intended to punish Russian officials responsible for the death of Magnitsky, and since 2016, the US Government has also been allowed to sanction human rights violations, freeze assets and prevent certain persons from entering the country, even if they had nothing to do with this very thing. Countries such as Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, the United Kingdom and Canada have followed, but unfortunately not Sweden. In fact, I do not see how it can be so difficult for Sweden to follow these good examples and move on with this to prevent oppression that we see and that is state-sanctioned. Madam President, I would like It is not simply to prevent human rights violations in countries that have a great lack of a well-functioning legal society or democratic institutions. However, there are ways to reduce the risk of corruption or violations of human rights and freedoms. This is a clear example of this. Various variants of Magnitsky laws, as I have also mentioned, have been adopted by a number of different countries. So there are several examples. The aim has been that persons who have committed human rights violations should be able to be punished regardless of their nationality. Targeted Magnitsky sanctions are particularly effective precisely because they punish the few people responsible for certain crimes while ordinary citizens are not affected, as when it comes to certain other sanctions. It may seem preventive precisely because a sanction against an individual is particularly felt by that particular person, which discourages corrupt persons from acting unjustly. Madam President, I would like I know that several Members, very many Members, who are sitting here now and who are normally sitting in this House share the view of the Swedish Democrats on this issue. There should be a majority here in Parliament to implement this type of legislation based on the articles we have read, on various statements in the media and so on. It's really not that strange. The European Parliament, but also the United Nations, are in favour of this. So also the Council of Europe where, together with all the other Swedish MPs there – Moderates and Social Democrats – and an overwhelming majority of the elected members of the Council have voted in favour of this very thing. It has actively chosen to call on the countries of Europe to implement these sanctions. Yet today we see that this will not go through during tomorrow's vote, and I regret that. The Social Democrats, who are in power in Sweden together with the Green Party, run counter to Swedish elected representatives in the Council of Europe and across from their sister parties in the Council of Europe who have also worked for this. The Moderates, who, like the Swedish Democrats, are in favour of this kind of legislation, I actually think will eventually join this line. We are now satisfied with a specific opinion. I have respect for that, but I still wish that we could have joined forces so that we could have brought this legislation into effect now. To conclude, Madam President, I would just like to express my regret that the Center Party chose not to join us in a joint reservation in this report. Our proposals are almost identical. It would have given a clear signal if at least three parties could have been united – there would have been four parties if the Moderates had joined. I wish we could have gone further. Given what it looks like now, we'll see how it's going to be in the future. Having said that, Madam President, I am in favour of reservation 18. Of course, I also support the other reservations expressed by the Swedish Democrats in the report.
i-658d12276c5cf663-1076	Madam President, I would like When this debate began a few hours ago, in a reply I asked a question to Markus Wiechels's party colleague, Lars Andersson. Then we have heard another Swedish democrat, Ludvig Aspling, speaking. I was thinking now that Markus Wiechel is going up as the last Swedish democrat that he will also have the chance to answer the questions I asked Mr Andersson but received answers that were completely inconspicuous. I had answers read out, but there were answers to questions that had not been asked. That is why I will now ask Markus Wiechel the same questions. Over the past year, the Swedish democrats have changed their approach to the EU. It says it no longer wants to leave the EU or at least does not want to push the issue of exit. Whether it is an honest attitude or an opportunist approach in times of increased popular support for the European Union is difficult to determine. If this is an honest change, then it must be based on one of the events of the last few years, probably also something that is included in the Yearbook on Europe that we are now debating. My questions to Markus Wiechel are: What happened in the EU during the past year that led the Swedish Democrats to leave the demand for Swedish withdrawal from the EU? Was it when we saw how forcefully the EU acted when Article 7 was activated against Poland and Hungary for their lack of democratic development, or was it something else?
i-BSaDZYjLNS6Vpbx1aY24io	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Rothenberg, for the questions. Of course, there are many things that have caused us to change our attitude on this issue. If we go to the bottom of it, it is a matter of seeing a completely different situation now than we did two, three or four years ago. We see more parties having a similar view of the development of the European Union growing and becoming stronger. We see an opportunity to actually change the EU so that it becomes more of intergovernmental cooperation and less of supranational cooperation. Then we have also seen how Britain has turned out. We believe that we must be careful and always have a different way out if we want to leave the Union. But the fact is that we are now seeing what potential we have as similar parties grow and we can work with others to change so that we actually focus on the core areas of the EU and can focus on fighting crime, doing environmental work and so on. We are trying to bring power back to the Member States from within.
i-658d12276c5cf663-1083	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Markus Wiechel! Here you didn't have to listen between the lines, but here it was actually said cleanly. We see what potential we have to change Europe," said Markus Wiechel – not what potential the EU has. The opportunism that thrives in the EU-critical context is now being used from within. But then there are some tasks to be done. I assume that the Swedish Democrats, as well as the Moderates and other parties, are fundamentally committed to freedom of expression, freedom of the press and democracy and its development. As I mentioned earlier, the V-Dem Institute at the University of Gothenburg conducts annual studies on the development of democracy in the world. Recent reports show that one third of the world's population lives in countries where the democratic trend is receding. There are also countries in Europe where there is a strong trend, but also countries within the European Union which have strong regressive developments. In two of these countries, Article 7 has been activated. Now I will repeat my second question, to which I did not receive an answer last time. In view of Sweden's sudden support for the EU as an institution, I wonder whether Markus Wiechel can explain how further efforts are being made to reverse developments and strengthen democracy in these two Article 7 countries, namely Hungary and Poland. As I said earlier, it would really be helping on the spot.
i-658d12276c5cf663-1086	Madam President, I would like There's a lot you can do. Let me clarify what I said earlier. There is absolutely potential. That is the potential we have for creating a better Europe. It is really about creating a Europe as it was intended from the beginning, that is, a Europe made up of countries that cooperate. We have had the same objectives in the past as we have now, but now we see a real opportunity to influence Europe from within. It's much more effective. Then there were the issues of democratic work within the EU. Work that restores power to individual Member States strengthens democracy in the EU. In addition, we have the opportunity to influence other countries through clearer intergovernmental cooperation within the Union. This does not exclude good contacts with different parties within the EU and with other countries at national level. But the fact is that there is a genuine democracy problem with the EU as an institution. That's what we want to change. Now I know that Mr Rothenberg cannot reply, but I would nevertheless like to emphasise what I highlighted in my speech. The Swedish Democrats and the Moderates share the view of a Magnitsky law. I therefore wonder why the Moderates cannot support the proposal that has come from the Swedish Democrats and the Center Party in today's report. Now, as I have said, Mr Rothenberg cannot reply, but I would like him to take it with him that the situation is regrettable. The proposal shows a way of using a law against corrupt politicians.
i-658d12276c5cf663-1091	Madam President, I would like It has been an exciting debate on an extremely exciting subject, namely the future of Europe. There are many perspectives to be built, and I will be honest with you that I will focus on one thing in particular. I can do so in the assurance that I have a competent colleague in Kerstin Lundgren, who has raised some of the interesting perspectives about Magnitsky laws, the development of the EU at different speeds and how to deal with a Union that wants and needs to develop at different speeds. I would like to focus on the debate on the EU budget and the EU's common agricultural policy. I want to do that, Madam President, because I think we are in an unfortunate situation where most Swedish politicians want to do more with the European Union. You think that the Union should take greater responsibility, but you do not want to pay. We have ended up in an unfortunate situation in which the common agricultural policy has become the cashier where everyone should find money for their own urgent efforts. Although I think it is good that we have a basic view that means that Europe should do more, need to do more, and that problems shared within the Union should be resolved jointly within the Union, I think it is extremely unfortunate when it is rural areas that have to pay for the efforts we do not want to fund otherwise. I am afraid, Madam President, that this is exactly what we are getting into. It has been said earlier in the debate that we can save on outdated agricultural subsidies, which prevent young farmers from entering – from getting hold of land. It happens that I am becoming one of these young farmers. Last year I got into the happy situation that after a generation change I had to take over our family farm at home in Östergötland. It is this year 100 years since my family entered the farm. As I now look forward to a process in which I will not only take ownership of the farm, but also the operation, I understand that if the economy of the farm is to go together, I am dependent on the grazing, environmental and agricultural support that we lift for the business we carry out and the community service we actually provide. I'm not the only one in that situation. Although Swedish farmers do not charge the most agricultural support, Sweden is one of the countries where farmers are most dependent on the support to get black figures in the financial statements, i.e. to cope with the economy of their farms. In this situation, it is extremely unfortunate if it is the case that it is Swedish farmers, who we agree on in Swedish politics that we want to support and increase competitiveness for, who have to pay for all the investments to be made. It is also extremely unfortunate that the CAP budget should become a fat calf to be slaughtered in order to bring together the EU budget. It is not only production aid and agricultural aid that are present in this, but it is also a question of regional policy – which also needs to be more effective; we need to think about what we should do with it – having an important role in developing rural areas in Europe and in Sweden. That is where the money will be missing if the funds for these projects are withdrawn. It is not here in Stockholm, it is in my home district in southern Östergötland. Last but not least, I think you should be careful. Environmental scientists, including Johan Rockström, have pointed out what is happening with the environmental and climate initiatives that also fall within the common agricultural policy. There is a great risk that they are the ones who have to iron their foot first. They are the ones who will be removed from the budget first if we reduce the EU's common agricultural policy carelessly.
