i-T4nXsatc1FwmsYom1XPa2E	Madam President, I would like For more than 200 years, the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee has examined that the Government and the Ministers have complied with the constitutions and other laws and regulations governing the government's work in the performance of their duties. The members of the Constitutional Committee are all elected by the people and belong to different political parties, but the review is formal and is not about what can be considered politically desirable or reprehensible. The review by the Constitutional Committee can be said to mean that political responsibility is required on a constitutional basis, that the constitutional rather than the political perspective is the basis for the committee's review work. It is of central importance. It commits but at the same time offers openings to consensus across party boundaries where perhaps consensus does not always exist. Madam President, I would like This year's review is based on 18 notifications, which may be considered normal but in the lower part of the normal range in terms of the number of notifications. Over the last 20 years, the number of notifications has varied from about 20 to around 40. As far as the Constitutional Committee is concerned, we will come back to what is more detailed during the debate, but I can mention, overall, that the committee is pointing out shortcomings in five dossiers. The ministers involved are Annika Strandhäll, Margot Wallström, Peter Hultqvist, Ylva Johansson and Alice Bah Kuhnke. For 20 years, before 2015, there were on average nine reservations per review report. From 2015 it changed. The KU then began to work actively to keep out political overtones and instead focus precisely on factuality and a strict legal constitutional review. The ambition to do this led to success. The audit reports from 2015 to 2018 had only a few reservations, which may be described as unique. Last year, 2018, there were parliamentary elections, and then new members took place on the Constitutional Committee. Some of them were, of course, still there. The question, concerns and concerns were raised as to whether the Constitutional Committee would thereby fall short of the facts and allow breast tones and politicisation to colour the work. But, Madam President, that has not been the case. This is a completely unanimous report, without a single reservation, and we have every reason to feel both pride and joy. But it is not just agreement that is pleasing with this year's review. If the committee had agreed on a poor report, the consensus would hardly have managed to make up for the shortcomings. There would have been nothing to be proud of. But that is not the case; the committee can present to the House today a solid and well-prepared report with unanimous conclusions. It's a great success. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the committee secretariat for its very good work and also to extend warm thanks to the other members of the committee for their good cooperation. My hope and wish is that we will continue to put the facts first. I believe that this year's review work has provided a good basis for further work. Madam President, I would like As I said, after this initial debate the committee will go through and debate the chapters and dossiers of the review report in more detail. This year's review report begins with a chapter dealing with certain questions about the government's relationship with the Riksdag. A chapter on the handling of certain government matters is followed. The following chapter deals with certain questions concerning the government's responsibility for administration. The report concludes with a chapter which addresses certain issues relating to the performance of the duties of the Minister of State. The division of chapters follows the main nature of the cases. Without going into this in detail, however, Madam President, I would like to comment on two of the committee's inquiries. I'll start with what we briefly call G4. That means "Scrutiny 4. " The committee examined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' handling of an evaluation of the Security Council campaign. This is an evaluation written by Ambassador Anders Lidén regarding Sweden's campaign for a place in the UN Security Council. The KU here criticises Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There has been a discrepancy between the Ministry's and the evaluator's view of the mission, which has affected the perception of public action. While Anders Lidén has understood a document drawn up or received, the Ministry has seen it as work material, which has not had to be disclosed. In this respect, the committee stresses the importance of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, in the context of missions such as this, ensuring that the nature of the mission is carefully examined in advance and that a thorough analysis of freedom of the press is also carried out in order to ensure that any handling of documents is carried out in accordance with the rules on public access to documents. The KU also notes that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has provided unclear and partially misleading information to journalists, which has resulted in the fact that the possibility was taken to request that the matter be brought before the Authority by a decision of a Council of State and, ultimately, the Government. Madam President, I would like In addition to this, the KU finds that the handling of the Foreign Affairs Committee's request for a formal examination of the issue of disclosure of documents has delayed and that the Ministry has provided incomplete information to the Foreign Affairs Committee. All in all, the KU finds it extremely worrying that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' handling of documents has repeatedly given rise to complaints that have been highlighted in different supervisory and audit contexts. Madam President, I would like The most mediated audit case this year is what we call the G8, Review Case 8, the transfer of the Director-General of Försäkringskassan. The KU has previously stressed that the scheme for transferring a head of authority from employment is aimed at ensuring the independence of the authorities and their managers. Against this background, it is essential that there are objective and objective reasons for a decision on the transfer of a head of authority. The Law on Public Employment, LOA, says that if a director of an administrative authority who is directly under the Government is employed for a fixed period, he or she may be transferred to another state employment before the end of the period of employment if required for organisational reasons or otherwise necessary for the best interests of the Authority. Such a transfer order may not be enforced until the decision has been finalized or the right to the action has been lost. However, the decision may be given immediate effect if there are particular reasons for it. In the current examination, the committee finds that the transfer was against the will of the former Director-General, Ann-Marie Begler. The representatives of the government have stated that there was a consensus between Ann ‐ Marie Begler and the Ministry that she could not continue as Director General of the Social Insurance Agency because there was no trust. The committee finds, however, that the transfer was contrary to the wishes of Ann-Marie-Marie Begler. When Ann-Marie-Marie Begler asked for the particular reasons for the transfer, she did not receive them. It is up to the Government to ensure that the conditions for moving a head of authority exist and that these are also made clear to the head of authority. Madam President, I would like Ann-Marie-Marie Begler and the representatives of the Government have presented various images of what has occurred in both government dialogues and the dialogue on Begler's continued employment. The KU points out here that it is unsatisfactory that the information provided in the audit is so disparate. The committee also notes that the dialogue between the department and Ann-Marie-Marie Begler has not met the requirements that can be imposed on it. Ann-Marie-Marie Begler has not understood the comments that have been made about Försäkringskassan's interaction with the stakeholders. The committee further says that when an authority is run by a board, as is the case with the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the board must also be involved when comments concerning the authority's management are raised by the Ministry. KU also writes that no documentation on the transfer has been available and that, in the context of the consideration of whether there are sufficient reasons to separate a head of authority from his employment, account should be taken of the documentation that may be needed by the dialogue with the head of authority. Finally, KU writes: For the shortcomings that the committee has found, Minister Annika Strandhäll bears responsibility. As I said, this will be described in detail during the day in the forthcoming debates. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to report on behalf of the Constitutional Committee the results of the review presented in our report under Chapter 13. Section 2 the form of government.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-26	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say something in general about this year's KU review. The KU has to examine that the government complies with the rules that exist for government work. The power of control of which the KU is a part is important in a country like Sweden, which has a strong government power. For we live with the inheritance of the reign of 1809, where it is written that the king owns to rule the kingdom alone. Now it is not the king but the government, but the government is actually still strong. It is therefore important that Parliament also has a strong power of control. Part of KU's work is to identify shortcomings and criticise ministers for these shortcomings. Another equally important part of the KU's work is forward-looking. We observe things and can say, this doesn't seem to work very well. The Government has not made mistakes, but here it is routines or application of rules that are wrong. In the future, I think you should do this. We are in the area that is commonly referred to as the good accountant. We are talking about how rules should be applied in the future. It may also be worth saying what the KU is not: the KU is not a court. The KU does not determine the question of Parliament's formal confidence in a certain minister. I would like to say something more in general about this year's review. We've had 18 reports to take a stand on. Two of these were actually the same as others, so in fact there were 16 notifications, which is considerably fewer than we have had in recent years. More serious deficiencies have been identified in three cases, and a few minor deficiencies have been identified in some other cases. What is special about the period we have reviewed is that we had a transitional government for a long time after last year's elections. We note that we have not had any complaints against the actions of the transitional government. This suggests that it observed great caution in the exercise of government power. A transitional government has the same formal rights as an ordinary government except that it cannot dissolve the Riksdag. But it is clear that the long period still raises a question, and now we are again the good accountant: perhaps a transitional government will eventually have to start ruling a little more? It took a very long time for government works to get new Directors-General and new ambassadors to be appointed. This is something that the KU will look at in the future to see if there is reason to think about it. The KU has a completely unanimous review report, and I believe that this is important in order to maintain the legitimacy of the KU's scrutiny. If the price of unity had been a totally toothless report, it would have been a very high price, as the President said earlier, but on the contrary, the report contains comments on the government's actions on a great many points. My committee colleagues will go into matters in more detail, but I will mention a few of them briefly, overall. The first concerns the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the principle of public access. We note that several foreign ministers of different political colours, such as Carl Bildt and Margot Wallström, have received complaints regarding the handling of public documents by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is not good, because it indicates that there is a culture of government that needs to be addressed. There is, of course, reason to respect the special mission of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry has to deal with relationships with foreign power, and there are more cases of secret nature where a security clearance has to be carried out. It is also a difficult structure in such a way that the foreign authorities are their own authorities and that there will be a large number of documents to be handled and tested by. But Swedish legislation applies, and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs must find ways to apply this legislation. What we have seen and about an event in 2017 is not satisfactory. On the other hand, the committee welcomes the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has put in place a package of measures in 2018 to address these elements. We look forward to not having to receive notifications in this area in the future. You really need to get to the culture of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The move of the former Director General of Försäkringskassan is the most debated matter this year. I will not go into detail about it, but Ida Karkiainen will do so later. But what can be seen in the case is that there are shortcomings in communication and documentation and that there is a particular problem around government-run authorities that the government has not handled properly. This will be further commented on. Perhaps these cases should be placed in a larger structure. We have a unique administrative structure in Sweden. In part, it is also found in our brother country, Finland, which is also the heir to Axel Oxenstierna's control system, namely the self-governing state authorities. We have smaller ministries in Sweden and self-governing government agencies. These are part of the ministries or departments in many other countries. This creates a special challenge, because according to the form of government it is still the government that is responsible to the Riksdag for the government of the Reich. If we in Parliament are to be able to hold the government responsible for the government's board of directors, the government must also be able to govern the authorities. There is a rule system for this, but it is not easy to say that there is a clear line there. That is why the governance model we have is a challenge, and I think we have to expect to receive notifications almost every year. It's a hard-to-apply limit drawing to make sure the control system works. Another issue that often recurs is the participation of ministers in the general debate. It must not be understood that they are in charge via de n, i.e. that it is ministerial government. I think there is a picture that the public would be very surprised if ministers did not take part in the public debate for fear of being under the authority of the ministerial government. There is also an ever-difficult boundary. How much can one say, and in what context can one say it so that it does not become ministerial rule? This is, as I said, very much a consequence of the control system that we have chosen in Sweden, and there we are guard dogs that will ensure that you stay on the right side of the slightly blurred limit. Finally, I would like to thank the committee secretariat for the work that has been done. I would like to wish my committee colleagues and the President a good summer and the same to the President.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-43	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking my committee colleagues very much for their pleasant and fruitful cooperation in the short time I have had the privilege of being a Member of Parliament and a substitute member of the Constitutional Committee. It has been an interesting spring, and I very much hope that our good cooperation will continue at the reviews during the forthcoming Parliamentary Session. I would also like to thank our fantastic office staff, who are always there and are there when we have questions. You have incredible patience with our whims. Although sometimes, not to say often, we come up with proposals for minor adjustments rather late in the course of the dossiers, you finally manage to include them in our reports. Not to mention your invaluable help in the scrutiny cases– you are doing an amazing job, and we are very pleased with the support you provide for the committee. Madam President, I would like This year it is 210 years since the Constitutional Committee was formed and began its review of the government and that it has complied with the laws and rules governing the government's work. The work of the Constitutional Committee, as well as the results of its work, has varied over the years. I am pleased that the work has developed into what it is today, and I am proud to be a part of it. I would also like to make it clear that it is not up to the committee to assess the appropriateness of the government's measures, but only whether the existing laws and rules are complied with. So we are not looking at the political content, but rather at its formal preparation. Madam President, I would like During the spring, we have discussed the various review cases on a number of occasions. In the discussions, many wise points of view have been made, and we have turned and turned arguments, sometimes several times. We have questioned the Prime Minister and Minister, but also senior officials in the administration. We have requested written opinions, which we have then had supplementary questions on or needed clarification of. We have requested documents from the government and the authorities. On the whole, we have had a good basis to work with. Yet it has not always been easy to investigate what has actually happened and what has been said. For example, in our review of the transfer of the Director-General of Försäkringskassan, words have stood against words, and documentation that was able to substantiate claims has been lacking. The situation has been further complicated by the fact that Försäkringskassan is a Board of Directors and the Board has not been involved in the plans to transfer the Director General. At such times the review becomes more difficult. In the committee's view, however, it is clear that the transfer was not voluntary and that the documentation needs to be clear in cases such as these. The Constitutional Committee therefore considers that the Government is responsible for the shortcomings identified in the review. Also in the review of the U Trikes Ministry's handling of an evaluation of the Security Council campaign, the Constitutional Committee has found shortcomings. These are requests from several quarters for access to documents. A journalist was denied documents, and the justification for the refusal was unclear and partially misleading, which led to the impossibility of having the matter examined by a minister or government. In addition, the discussion of the request by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to have access to the document has been overly long. The question of a document is general when a former employee is modifying his or her work from time as an employee has also been part of this review. Here, too, the committee's assessment is made more difficult by the fact that two parties disagree. However, the shortcomings identified by the Constitutional Committee cannot escape the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Madam President, I would like The review by the Constitutional Committee may also lead to the dissipation of suspicions of inaccuracies. I am thinking, among other things, of the review of the government's control of the Swedish power grid. Here, many parallels to last year's review of the Swedish Transport Agency and saw before them an extensive review with a difficult outcome. However, the investigation soon revealed that there were no formal errors in the handling of this case. The Constitutional Committee has also examined a number of statements by ministers. In some cases these have been party political statements, and in others they have been purely false statements. We will go into the individual dossiers in more detail later in the debate. Madam President, I would like Despite some difficulties in the audits, we in committee have agreed on a report based on the data we have had at our disposal. I am pleased that we have agreed, because it is important. This shows that the Constitutional Committee is to trust and examine the government and ministers objectively and impartially. In fact, the fact that we are doing this objectively and impartially means that both the citizens and the parliament can rely on what we come up with. It shows that whatever parties currently in power, the constitutional committee's scrutiny will be objective and impartial. Madam President, I believe that this gives the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the power and importance that is needed. That is why I would like to thank the committee once again for its good cooperation.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-56	Madam President, I would like Now that we are going to debate and sum up the first review report of the parliamentary term, I will look back and give a personal reflection on the KU's work on this year's review report. Last autumn, when I was a new member of the Swedish Parliament, I received the confidence and privilege to represent the Center Party in the Constitutional Committee, I approached the mission with great joy and curiosity and, frankly, quite high expectations. I had high expectations of how much new I would learn and acquire in the coming year and on what working environment, what culture and what rules we would jointly create, nurture and safeguard in committee. And I had high expectations of how we, a largely replaced gang compared to the set in the previous legislature, would cope with the legacy of Andreas Norlén's and Björn von Sydow's work in restoring the Constitutional Committee. Nine of the seventeen members of the committee have not previously served in the KU. Seven of the members were present during the last parliamentary term. It was not obvious, at least not to me, how we would manage the inheritance responsibly. What kind of inheritance am I talking about? Well, the solid work of the KU during the last term of office, under the leadership of the above-mentioned gentlemen, was successful in the part of the committee dealing with the audit work. I am talking about the work of bringing the KU back to its roots – to the legal and constitutional review that the KU was set up for the year 1809. The task is to examine in the annual spring review whether the government and its members have complied with the constitutions and other laws and regulations governing the government's work in the performance of their duties. Last autumn, my thinking was, as I said, about and in what way we were going to do the task. I had high expectations of myself and us and how we would manage it during the first Parliamentary session of the parliamentary term, which still has to be seen as a formative stage. Madam President, I would like I have tried to get to grips with the mission as a member of the KU not only with great enthusiasm and curiosity but also with humility – in front of colleagues and faced with difficult matters and situations. I've been politically active for 30 years. For me, it has always been urgent to constantly return to and examine my own driving forces in moments of success and adversity and in ordinary everyday routine. What drives me as a politician? What are the values and ideas of society that give me the courage, energy and energy to reload, try again and not give up? Why am I doing this? I am politically active because, probably with most of you, I share the dream and vision of changing society for the better. We may have different ideas and values about what a good society is and how to get there, but that is ultimately why we are here, as I see it. I'm here because I want to do something – not to be the meanest on Twitter, to spread disrespect and misinformation on social media, for power search or to chase 15 seconds in the spotlight. I really believe in the purpose of controlling how the government and its authorities do their work, what is called the parliamentary power of control. I believe that it can help the government and the authorities to comply with the laws and work effectively and that citizens have confidence in public power. The KU is one of Parliament's several tools for exercising control and according to the constitution, the government form, has a special task to review the government. Call me naive, but I think that task, properly handled, makes a difference. That is why I have taken the work of the KU very seriously. I have tried to do so with sincere intentions, with openness and curiosity, with the readiness to have my positions and arguments challenged and with a willingness to take the impression and perhaps even change my own position when I listened to our discussions and arguments. It has therefore been important for me to try to do everything I can to contribute to the KU's commitment to the KU – so that the basic idea of the review should be administrative and not politically oriented, as the KU pointed out back in 1968. The KU is at its best when an election year makes a unanimous review with well-founded and factual remarks about shortcomings in the duties of the Minister in several large, controversial and complex cases. The KU is the worst when you allow yourself to become a tool or an arena for a politicizing pie throw. What KU do we want? It is we who sit in the KU at every given opportunity that chooses. Madam President, I would like Let me put our KU review into a broader and broader perspective. Recently, I heard one of the national auditors, Helena Lindberg, speaking of the Swedish National Audit Office's own development work in passing say something like: Nothing is so good that it can't get better. I was very happy and inspired when I heard her words. If she, who together with Stefan Lundgren leads an audit authority with constitutional independence, has that starting point and that basic view of all her work, I mean that one has the right focus. The Swedish National Audit Office is another part of the parliament's control power. The task of the Swedish National Audit Office is to examine what the state's money is spent on and how efficiently it is used. The Ombudsmen of Justice are also part of the parliamentary control. The job of the JO is to monitor every person's right to be treated according to the law by the authorities. Without claiming to give a comprehensive picture of the parliamentary power of control, because I have not signed it here, I would nevertheless like to state that the power of control is one of Parliament's most important tasks. It can contribute to the development and improvement of the state's activities, the administration of the state administration, the administration of matters, the performance of the duties of the ministers, the rule of law of the citizens and the efficient and legally secure management of state resources. Riksrevisor Helena Lindberg's view that everything can always be better – this constructive focus – should therefore be the purpose of all the power of control. It is always easy to find faults and point out flaws, and it has its time and place. But perhaps it is even more important to try to learn from the experience gained, to reconsider, to think again, and to do differently the next time you face the same situation. Madam President, I would like I would also like to stress, as at the press conference on the review report, the importance of using the parliamentary tools of the supervisory authority, such as the KU review or the declaration of censure, with caution and discretion after careful consideration. Should the KU be worth listening to, and should the observations and observations of the KU be taken seriously, it is self-evident for the Center Party that the KU points to shortcomings where it is justified, no more or less. There must be coverage in each investigation for the remarks KU makes. Right should be right. In a few of the subsequent debates, I will return to observations in some of this year's audited cases. Madam President, I would like So what has happened to my high expectations of my own contribution and of us who, for the term of office, are a new KU? How I've managed to do this, others will have to judge. My own assessment is that it has gone like that, both with my own contribution and with KU's review work. On the whole, we have taken up the task. The way in which we have done it can and should be discussed in other forms and in other forums. I believe and know one thing: nothing is so good that it cannot be done better. KU can do better. Me and we can do better. Having said that, I would like to extend warm thanks to all my colleagues and a particularly warm thanks to Marta Obminska, Karin Enström and Mr Ekström, who in their work in the Bureau have drawn an extra heavy load. Last but certainly not least, I would also like to thank our fantastic committee office, without whom we would be lost. The skills, commitment, time and energy and care that you meet us Members with are invaluable and a prerequisite for us to be able to fulfil our mission. Thank you very much.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-75	Madam President, I would like So, then, the Constitutional Committee again has a unanimous review report to hand over. We're all happy about that. As we all know, the formation of government took some time, and that is certainly a contributing factor in the fact that there have been fewer notifications than usual. The government simply could not do so much, either good or bad, and so there were not so many complaints. Among the 16 reviews we have done, there are some things that can be sorted out under the department's constantly recurring questions. It concerns the disclosure of public documents, registration, lack of documentation, behaviour in the EU context in relation to what has been said in consultation with the Riksdag and ministers' opinions in the media. As far as documents are concerned, we also have a case this year where the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has had problems with both registration and disclosure of public documents. We understand that there is a particular problem at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs with the assessment of what can be disclosed and what should be classified because it not only affects Sweden but can also affect relations with other countries. However, it is not reasonable that this problem should come back year after year. The same applies to registration. Now there is work going on within the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to tackle the problems, and we really must hope that we do not stand here next year with another dossier on the same issues. There is more to be said on this matter, and it will come back later in the debate. The main subject of discussion is the separation of a Director-General from her post at Försäkringskassan. Here we have been able to see that it is difficult to review because there is no documentation – also a recurring problem for the KU. The contacts that have been between the Department and the Director-General cannot be recapitulated. Here I hope we will see improvements throughout the Government Office. This issue will also come back later in the debate. What ministers say and do at EU ministerial meetings is also a constant feature of the KU's reviews. It is different from year to year, but the question always comes back. How free can ministers be at lunch meetings? How are ministers to act in informal discussions? Can a minister at all say anything other than exactly what is the Swedish position? These are the balances that the KU returns to every year. This year we have a matter concerning the fact that at a Council meeting the Minister for Labour had not presented the Swedish position in connection with a discussion that arose about a European Labour Authority. The Minister had earlier informed the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs that a progress report would be submitted at the Council meeting but that there would probably be no discussion on the matter. The Minister also said that if there were to be a discussion, she would present the Swedish position. The committee notes that the Minister was not obliged to have any consultation at all because it was an agenda item with a progress report. However, since there was a discussion at the meeting, the Minister should of course have put forward the Swedish position because, in consultation with the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, she had said that she would do so. If she had not said anything at all to the Committee on Employment, then there would have been no problem, but since she said that she would be presenting the position, she should have done the same. We also usually have a number of statements from ministers to consider every year: has the Minister tried to rule the Authority through a statement, or has the Minister spoken out in favour of influencing a case? This year we have several such dossiers, and the committee once again says that ministers both get and should participate in the general political debate, but it is of course important that they are particularly careful when it comes to statements that could jeopardise the independence of courts and administrative authorities. Then we have also pointed out that it is important that the statements are correct, so that what the Minister says is true. This is true even if the Minister is particularly involved in one issue. The former Minister of Culture and Democracy has, during a visit to one of the country's newspapers, talked about the action plan for the defence of the free word. In connection with that, the Minister said, among other things, that the police have a basic mission to specifically protect freedom of expression and thus also journalists – and they will have contact with every damn publisher in our country. It can certainly be something the Minister wants, but it is not actually a mission that the police have. It is simply not true that the police should have contact with all publishers. If the police are going to have such a mission, the government has to make a decision about it, and the government hasn't. I would like to see ministers involved in discussions and debates involved, but a minister must think a little more carefully about what he says. Besides, the KU has of course checked with the Ministry of Culture that the quote is correct, and it does. Security issues, especially regarding IT in the authorities, have been up in the KU before. This year we had a new notification regarding the Swedish Transport Agency's IT operation and one about the Swedish power grid's control system. There were probably many of us who thought that there would be new missedes and security risks, but we have been able to see that the authorities have acted to close the security holes that existed, and the departments have followed up their activities. Generally speaking, there seems to be a much greater level of security awareness at the level of the authorities on cyber issues. When there are fewer notifications than usual, it seems that there is still at least as much to talk loudly about – a lot of noise for little wool, one might say. This does not mean that there are no errors at all, but compared to other years it is relatively small misses that have become major cases. But it is good that the KU has had the time and opportunity to put energy on problems that in another context might have been handled a little more comprehensively. Finally, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the office, which has guided us through this examination and all other matters during this Parliamentary session.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-89	Madam President, I would like When you follow the debate that the KU is having today, you hear the words, and the review of the government by the Constitutional Committee, what are you thinking? Do you possibly think of the nearly 900 pages that we have worked out for almost a year, with emphasis on spring? Or are you possibly thinking of a rather famous quote about knowing the hut? I think it would be wise to think more about the nearly 900 pages than on a catchy quote, because behind the KU's review is an enormous amount of work and not the winning words and formulations of the ester. Every Member of Parliament has the right to file a complaint and ask the KU to examine something possibly wrong under the regulations or possibly not wrong. Everything is done as carefully as if it were a police investigation or a preliminary investigation. You go through all the facts in the case. Then, on a constitutional basis, the KU will judge by. The KU therefore has a special task. It's clear over the years. To put it in its proper context, I have to go back to 1810. In the 1810 Parliamentary Order, it is stated in Section 76 of the Swedish Parliament that everything that the Riksdag has approved or left unobserved should be considered to have won decharge in respect of the audited, and no new to liability for binding scrutiny of the new Parliament in the same case should be allowed. ..................................................... From there came the expression decharge debate. That was the name of the review debate earlier – of the French decharge, which means unloading. In this context, it is therefore a matter of discharge granted for the discharge of the tasks entrusted to it. It then designated a discharge granted by Parliament to the members of the Government. The discharge won was called decharge. But now it's not quite the same thing. In the current form of government, Chapter 13. Paragraph 1 provides that KUs are to review the performance of their duties and the administration of government matters. In 2009, the Constitutional Committee tried to formulate what this means in RFR14 – or the KU's little green, as it is also called. Constitutional control functions are the correct name. This publication has served as a handbook since 2009. Page 11 states: the Constitutional Committee stated in 1968 that the basic idea is that the review should be administrative and not politically oriented. It has been tried, with varying success, since then. According to the Constitution bill 1973:90, p. 415, the review now focuses primarily on judicial control and administrative practice. And that's the way it should be. I also have something that's smoking fresh. Today, this focus was confirmed in the parliamentary inquiry into the management structure of the Swedish National Audit Office (URF1). P. 77 states that, in agreement between all parties in Parliament, the Constitutional Committee has a role which differs in several respects from that of other specialist committees, in that its task is to maintain long-term legality and the rule of law in the exercise of government power. In addition, the committee also prepares and examines matters of such a nature that its members are expected to put respect for the rule of law above loyalty to political objectives and members of the public. In the preparation of constitutional matters, a broad consensus is a prerequisite for respect for the constitutional foundations of the kingdom to remain stable. For those elected by the Riksdag for the important tasks within the supervisory authority, it is of crucial value that the Riksdag stands united behind their mandate. This is day-to-day, and it confirms what has been applied in particular over the last five years. With the 2014 elections, a united KU decided to try to be united – it was not quite straightforward and not without some work. Essentially, the last parliamentary review reports were entirely unanimous – there was some small exception. But it is one of the committee's honour and pride that this year there was complete agreement – there was not the slightest reservation. It is therefore a question of verifying whether, in the performance of their duties, the Ministers of State and the Government Office have complied with the rules and practices in force when dealing with government matters. In the event of failure to act, the question of whether the obligation to act existed in accordance with rules and practices is examined. The background rules that are primarily referred to in relation to the review are those relating to procedural and competence rules in the governance and the parliamentary system, i.e. rules on legislative referral, norm-making competence and proposal delivery. It can also be a matter of substantive legal provisions that the Government applies to decisions in administrative matters, such as provisions in the Aliens Act, the Planning and Construction Act, the Privacy Act and so on. It may have to do with whether the government and its Members have made factual and correct statements or not. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs takes great care to give its opinion in such a way that there is a substantive review of an individual case. Normally, the KU does not interfere with the material assessment made by the government, i.e. the political assessment. As I mentioned, the KU does not test whether the government has done the right political thing, has shown good judgment or something similar. We cannot go in beforehand or afterwards and make a political assessment and indicate a political path. Having said that, the members of the Constitutional Committee should make an assessment: has the form of government been followed? Has good practice been followed, i.e. the practices that have been established? I have now been a member of the Constitutional Committee for nine years. Before that, I sat four years as a working alternate. I have to say that what I now read out and, above all, today's quote is an ideal for how the KU should operate. It has been said since 1968, but it must be recycled every year. Each member and working alternate must meet this high objective every time they examine it. It is a question of putting politics aside and assessing whether it is good state-manship, whether it has followed practices and regulations and whether it has followed the form of government. I'll mention a little side effect. Perhaps the most important thing in what we have done this year is not the 900 pages but a small simple press release. The press release serves as an interpretation key, which we have found practical to agree not only on 900 pages but also on how it should be interpreted. In five cases, the Government's Minister receives criticism. We agree on that, and we bone it out in this small press release. This year too, it proved to be very useful. I, too, would like to stand in the queue to congratulate, thank and pay attention to the work we have done. In particular, I would like to thank the KU's office. Almost 900 pages don't write themselves. It is not our fingers that have crossed the keys, but it is the KU's office, with its head of office, deputy head of the cabinet, various experts and office staff, that has done this. We thank you very much for that work. We know that this year too, if you had not done an excellent job, we would not have finished. Having said that, I must also thank the President and Vice-President for their very good work and all the Members and alternates for a good atmosphere. It has not been without a certain crosswind, if you put it that way, but we cleared it together.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-104	Madam President, I would like The Parliament has three overall tasks: to legislate, to tax and to review. The latter task has been exercised and developed as the constitutional fathers once thought long ago, through slow, careful and conscious work in the Parliament's constitutional committee. The parliamentary power of control should be one hundred per cent focused on the constitutional, legal and practice- and regulatory part and how this is followed by the government and the ministers. The KU must not and must not engage in political scrutiny. This scrutiny and criticism takes place in our other political work, usually between majority and opposition, but also in and between our various political parties. The elected representatives of the Constitutional Committee – also as the constitutional fathers originally intended – will focus on the duties of the ministers. Madam President, I would like There have been years that have been just the opposite, as several of the previous speakers have highlighted. At the time, it was the majority of the committee that decided whether or not criticism should be left. In the end, party political considerations weighed the heaviest. Now one can say that the order is restored to what was actually the thoughts of the constitutional fathers. This manifesto is also contained in this year's report. It is a unanimous review report, which has been produced with great effort. If there have been errors according to law and practice, the KU also criticises the Prime Minister, individual ministers or the government as a whole. It is not for the KU to take a position on whether the government is pursuing a good or bad policy. We do so in other forums. Madam President, I would like This year's KU decision signals that the committee lives up to what we should be according to the form of government. As I said, a united committee criticises several ministers on a principled basis. KU's criticism is unanimous and, as usual, correct and factual, not to say gentle, put. And that's how it's supposed to be. It is a constitutionally directed review, just as it should be. Ministers who pursue a line in Brussels without having established the issue in Parliament receive comments, as well as ministers who have spoken on judgments – but not if you speak on newspaper headlines or participate in political debate. That's the way it should be. The mediatly most noted and most remarkable are well the several points of criticism that are directed against the Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll. At the same time, it is important to highlight that the continuing, serious criticism of the general handling of documents and documentation within several departments, mainly the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is a recurring sequel in the KU's review. This is at least as serious as highlighting an individual case of great media interest. These parts will be returned to in the following posts. Madam President, I would like In particular, I would like to mention the chairman of KU, Karin Enström, and the vice-chairman of the committee, Hans Ekström. They deserve all appreciation and attention for lifting the KU to a continued good, sharp and fair constitutional review. This also applies to the members of the KU, who have done so much work to make the form of government fully fair and to drive the development of our democracy forward. Behind this is a hard-working and wonderfully well-organized office under Peder Nielsen's leadership, which deserves all respect. The candidacy's great accuracy is of the utmost importance for our democracy to stand firm and work forward and develop. Thank you very much for this!
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-113	Madam President, I would like Members, listeners! The parliamentary year is coming to an end. The Constitutional Committee concludes the spring traditionally with its review report on the performance of the duties of the Ministers of State and the handling of government matters. Looking back on the past year, we can see that it has been a rather unusual year. Turbulent maybe a lot of people would call it that. A year ago, the election movement had started. Everyone knew that the election outcome was uncertain, and for quite a long time we had to live in uncertainty before a new government came into place. Despite both the election year, which is usually followed by a high political tone, and a transitional government for several months – where we are not used to having one – few KU notifications were made during the period covered by this report. In fact, the previous parliamentary term became increasingly narrower year by year, and the report we are presenting today follows that trend. I see this as a good rating for the previous S-MP government and also the current one. Madam President, I would like Now it is not the case that notifications and subsequent audits are in any way evil. Members of Parliament have the right to report ministers in the government to the committee when they fear that the government and ministers do not comply with the rules of government work. The KU must then objectively examine and account for what has been achieved and what has not been done. I fully agree with the views of previous speakers on the importance of an objective examination without political overtones. To speculate is not for the Constitutional Committee. By focusing on a constitutional and legal analysis, the committee contributes to positive democratic development and a reasonable and well-functioning practice formation for both the government and the Riksdag. Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the President of the Bureau, the Vice-Presidents and Members and, like everyone else, the office staff.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-119	Madam President, I would like We continue to debate the review report KU20 and go to chapter 1, Some questions about the government's relationship with the Riksdag. Allow me to begin by thanking the members of the committee and the secretarial staff for their work during the examination. As we approach the annual accounts of this Parliamentary session, I would also like to thank you for the year before. I joined the Riksdag in 2014 and was then given the opportunity to work with a variety of policy areas, but since autumn 2018 I am the permanent constitutional committee. Misunderstand me correctly; allow me to say that political work has changed character. However, I would like to point out that the work of the previous Parliamentary Session has been extremely fruitful in terms of the committee's working methods and areas of activity, which gives new and much-needed perspectives on the political work that we are in the middle of. Thank you very much for allowing me to be part of this historic committee! Returning to the debate on this chapter, there are only two events that have been the subject of the committee's scrutiny. It is the acquisition of an anti-aircraft system and the action of the Minister for Labour in relation to the European Labour Authority. I will dwell on the latter matter. The report against the Minister for Labour has its origins in her statement to the EU Board linked to the proposal for the creation of a European Labour Authority. Instead of debating the matter in substance, we can concentrate on the arrangements for the government's obligation to consult with Parliament. As the committee notes, the arrangements are such that there is no formal obligation for the government to consult the Parliament's EU Board on matters such as progress reports and information points. In substance, the Government has not expressed a different view of the Council either, although it is widely known that the majority of the Parliament in the matter in question does not include the support of the government parties. On the contrary, the committee has noted that, in the further discussions on the creation of a European Labour Authority, the government has promoted the position formulated by the then Committee majority in the Labour Market Committee. The answer to the committee from the Government Office about the government's action on the matter should be a response enough that there has not been a failure to promote Parliament's position. Madam President, I would like It is extremely important to affirm the role of Parliament in defining the future of Europe. Parliament is the main representative of the people. Less than a month ago, an EU election was held that was a success for Eurosceptic parties. It is therefore of the utmost importance that we, as representatives of the national parliaments of the Member States, safeguard influence and participation, otherwise the legitimacy will be eroded and it feeds the nationalist forces that want to divide the Union and want to break up European cooperation. Legitimacy is, therefore, and should remain, the key word in the development of the European Union. This requires us to maintain the close cooperation that we have between the legislative assembly – the parliament – and the executive and governing body – the government. Sweden is in many ways an example in comparison with other Member States. During the last term of office, I had the honour of serving on the EU Board. It became very clear in meetings with representatives from other Member States that Parliament's influence in the EU legislative process is kept at a very high level. That is how it must remain. With this in mind, it is not possible to have views on the statement by the Minister for Labour in the EU Board in relation to the outcome of the Council of Ministers – even if the matter in its then form as a progress report, which I have been discussing, did not require consultation – or, for that matter, that the government acted by omission in a way that would be contrary to Parliament's opinion. In this case, it was about the Council of State not saying anything, and at the given meeting the Council joined a majority of Council representatives who did not speak. Only eleven Member States commented on the Commission's proposal. In spite of the fact that this clears up the Government and the Government to those who suspect that action is the result of a hidden agenda, it does not mean that we can overlook when missteps are taken. Madam President, I would like The Government expressed its views at the meeting of the EU Board, although it was only a matter of a progress report, and said that if a discussion were to arise at the Council meeting, her intention was to present the Parliament's position even if there was no obligation for Member States to present a position on the substance of the Commission's proposal at this stage in the context of a progress report. As is widely known, and as is also the origin of the complaint against the Government, the Minister did not follow through on what was presented to the EU Board. We cannot overlook this in our position. In order to safeguard the legitimacy of European cooperation, but above all of Parliament's institutions – such as the EU Board – we must be able to ensure that what Parliament and the Government agree on is also fulfilled. There are no exceptions, regardless of the size or nature of a political issue. The Swedish Parliament's Constitutional Committee cannot allow beauty spots to pass by. It is not just about the matter at hand, but about positions that will guide the work of this government and future governments on European issues. Parliament's role in the anchoring process must not be taken lightly. I think that signal is clear from the committee's position.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-134	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to join the group which thanks the committee secretariat for a spotless and fantastically well done work during the past parliamentary year. There was a colleague who earlier said: Without you we would have been lost. I can only agree with that. I would also like to thank the other members of the committee for the work that has been done and that we have landed in a completely unanimous report. It shows a strength in our review. Although we sometimes have very different starting values, we have, at the end of the day, landed in a joint report. It is a strength, especially when what is not toothless this year. The first chapter of the review, which deals with the approach of Parliament and the Government to each other, is perhaps not the longest and most comprehensive one of this report. That is why I am not going to drag this out more than necessary. Nevertheless, I would like to emphasise a few points. I will begin with the first case in the chapter dealing with the acquisition of anti-aircraft systems. The Parliament had expressed a wish to the government for an anchoring of the work on this. Although this was expressed only in the form of an announcement, the Minister of Defence nevertheless came to the Committee on Defence and described what the government intended to do. But when you make an anchor, it should in some way play a role. This sends the Constitutional Committee a hint to the government. If you express your intention in a radio interview just before the anchoring takes place, the experience of anchoring may be somewhat lost. Such a radio interview could well have been conducted after the committee meeting of the Committee on Defence, when such an anchoring would have taken place. Nevertheless, I have to say that any obligation to make such an attachment can not be considered to exist purely constitutionally. That is why we must consider that the committee does not criticise, but perhaps a hint as to how things should reasonably be done in order to make it seem logical. The second point in this chapter is the point on which Erik Ezelius was particularly concerned. I agree that it is this of these two dossiers that requires a little extra thought. It is true that there is no obligation to consult in the situation at the time when the Minister was on the EU Board and had a dialogue there. However, when a Minister for the EU Board states that if there is a debate, the Swedish position will be expressed – it was clear on the EU Board what the Swedish position was – that one should be able to rely on something like that as an EU Board and as a parliament. There is also a clear statement from the Constitutional Committee that this should be the case. I think it is a good thing that we can get around this kind of statement even in those matters that may not be the most important part of our time. Perhaps the reason is that we agree with each other that this is the right and the right thing to say.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-141	Madam President, I would like We have come to some questions about the government's relationship with the Riksdag. If it sounds like Members say the same thing, it's because we sing from the same music. It is as it should be; it is not a mistake. We note that the committee has examined the anchoring of the Parliament with regard to the acquisition of an anti-aircraft system. The review concludes that the decision of the Riksdag to establish the foundation has taken the form of an announcement and is therefore not made as a binding condition in the actual authorisation of the acquisition. The announcement did not reveal the stage at which the anchoring would take place. The Defence Committee was informed in advance that the Government's letter on the acquisition would be submitted to the Riksdag after the Government's decision on the matter. This has not led to any action by the Committee on Defence. In the review, we also note that in a radio interview, the Minister for Defence stated that Sweden would buy the current anti-aircraft system. He did so before informing the Committee on Defence about the proposed acquisition. How does the KU feel about that? Indeed, in the language of the KU, it is said that if the purpose of the information provided by the Minister for Defence was to form part of an anchoring process, the statement in the media would have been able to wait until after the meeting, according to the committee. ..................................................... I put an end to it and let that sentence speak for itself. The committee then writes: In addition, the committee has examined the action of the Minister for Labour in relation to the European Labour Authority. There is no formal obligation to consult the EU Board on progress reports or similar information points prior to Council meetings. In the examined case, however, the Minister for Labour had stated to the EU Board that she would present the Swedish position if there were to be a discussion at the Council meeting. According to the committee, it is important for the government to follow up on what has been said in the EU Board, although there has not been a fundamental obligation to consult. When there came to be a discussion on the substance of the proposed labour authority, the Minister for Labour should therefore, in the light of his statement in the EU Board, have expressed his views in order to present the Swedish position. ..................................................... That's where the KU ends.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-148	Madam President, I would like The previous speaker has gone through and pointed out two issues in the chapter we are now discussing. It is partly the examination of the foundation of the Parliament of the acquisition of an anti-aircraft system and partly the action of the Minister for Labour in relation to the European Labour Authority. I shall comment on these matters, but I do not need to go into them in substance because the previous speaker has explained them very well. Madam President, I would like These are two dossiers that show that it is not just about the ability to comply with formal rules to the letter – it has been stated by the KU – but also that compliance with our institutions' need for transparency and the expectation of objectivity and sincerity is desirable. This is also something that the KU actually states. In order for the work of elected representatives to function in the best possible way and for confidence in the division of powers and tasks between the parliament and the government to be maintained, it is important that information is provided in due time, that it is factual and correct and that it is followed up. The institutions must be confident in how they are to be secured between them. These two dossiers show, Madam President, that it is better to inform once too much again too little. It is better to be out in good time than too late, and it is better to be careful about promises made. Trust in Parliament also needs to be followed and made follow-up.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-151	Madam President, I would like As I said in my introduction, the Constitutional Committee is also able to dispel suspicions of errors. Someone said earlier that we can also offer guidance on how to improve the process. That is about what has happened in the Constitutional Committee's review of the acquisition of an anti-aircraft system. There the committee has concluded that there have been no formal errors. The Parliament had authorized the Government to decide on the acquisition of a new medium-sized anti-aircraft system. The acquisition would, however, be anchored in the Riksdag, for example by a letter from the Government, but it has not been stated in what form of anchoring would take place. In spring and summer 2018, the Government informed the Defence Committee that the Government's letter would be submitted to the Riksdag after the Government's decision. This did not give rise to any action by the Committee on Defence. It may therefore be considered that the Committee on Defence was satisfied with that order. At the meeting of the Defence Committee on 1 August 2018, the Minister of Defence provided information on the planned acquisition and that the Government intended to decide on the acquisition the following day. Before the meeting, the Minister for Defence spoke in a radio interview about the purchase of the current anti-aircraft system, and that is what the report is about. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs believes that the statement in the radio interview could well have waited until after the Defence Committee was informed. That is the guidance I have just mentioned. If this had been done as proposed by the Constitutional Committee, it would probably not have led to a KU notification.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-154	Madam President, I would like I will present the chapter of our review, which is called the Processing of certain government matters, etc., where we deal with a total of four notifications. In the case of the preparation of proposals for a new residence permit – better known as the Upper Secondary Education Act – the notification focuses on the preparation of the matter itself. Was there any reason to prepare an additional amending budget or not? And how did the government relate to the Council's views? The Law Council had comments on the bill. However, a government does not need to follow the Council's views to the letter; however, it should justify in its proposal why views have been met or not. We note that the government has justified this and that it has argued for its positions. As far as the budget issue is concerned, we in the committee note that it is possible for the government to deviate from normal practice but that it should be avoided by good anticipation and preparedness by the government. If an additional amending budget is to be submitted, it is important that it is well justified. We see that the Government has explained its motives, and we also note that the Committee on Finance did not object to the Government's assessment that there were particular reasons for submitting the proposal to Parliament. We note that the committee sought additional views on the bill and that the Parliament then decided in accordance with the Finance Committee's proposal. Madam President, I would like Another matter we have examined concerns a press secretary's employment at the Ministry of Defence and his links with a company active in the defence industry. It is important that everyone who works in the public sphere does so with great integrity and great respect for public confidence. Having a secondary job alongside or close links with private interests that may benefit from one's public employment may damage public confidence in the public administration and jeopardise the functioning of the authorities. For this reason, there are provisions on conflict in the form of government, as well as provisions on acts of trust-impaired by-laws in the Law on Public Employment. In addition, the Government Office has drawn up ethical guidelines concerning all its employees. In this case we can note that the employee a at the time of employment announced that the commitment and ownership of the company was discontinued, despite the fact that links still existed. We also note that the Minister of Defence acted as soon as he became aware of the information. However, we find reason to note that it did not become known earlier, which is why we believe that the Government Office has reason to review its procedures regarding employees' possible secondary activities. Madam President, I would like We have also examined a further case relating to a number of issues linked to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Security Council campaign. The Security Council campaign should be the most well-examined and transparent campaign Sweden has ever engaged in – which is a good thing, because it was a big and important commitment. In this case, it is an evaluation that is in focus and whether the publicity of action applied to the entire evaluation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs claimed that this was an internal evaluation which was intended to publish only the conclusions. The employee who carried out the evaluation had a fixed-term position in the Government Office with a position at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and was to carry out the evaluation independently. However, the employee did not have the final result of the evaluation. It is this relationship that has been discussed. There is a certain discrepancy between the evaluator's and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' assessments. We believe that this is unfortunate and would like to stress that the Ministry of Missions of this kind should carefully review the nature of the mission and carry out a freedom of the press analysis. Furthermore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs provided misleading information on a question from Dagens Nyheter regarding whether there were additional documents that were not generally linked to the conclusions of the evaluation. We shall point out, as previous speakers have also mentioned, that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, regardless of the party colour, has a particular challenge regarding the public access to documents in the Swedish state administration, since the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has, on the one hand, foreign authorities and, on the other hand, deals with matters relating to foreign affairs. In this case, the Government is responsible for the shortcomings identified. However, the committee notes that extensive work has been initiated to get the documents in order in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Madam President, I would like We now come to the matter of the Constitutional Committee's scrutiny, which has received the greatest attention, namely the government's decision to separate Ann-Marie-Marie Begler from the post of Director-General of the Social Insurance Agency and appoint the person responsible to the Government Office. First of all, we need to clarify the premises on which Directors-General are employed and separated from their positions and how they are given other assignments. The government decides to hire Directors-General. They are appointed for a term of six years, and the Government has the right to transfer them in the civil service during their employment. But this must not be done in any way. It relates to the law on public employment, called LOA, but does not make any direct LOA decisions on transfers. This is what all governments, regardless of party color, have done. A government must be able to move directors-general, otherwise we cannot demand responsibility for the government's administration. But that does not mean that the government can move Directors-General arbitrarily or in any case. Was this an arbitrary movement? In the documentation, we have been able to take part in the Government's view that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has failed in its obligation to cooperate and that other actors – not only the Government – have pointed out the shortcomings, such as the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Swedish Association of Local Authorities and Regions, the Swedish Public Employment Service and the Swedish Medical Association. In view of this, the Government states that they had exceptionally many government dialogues with Försäkringskassan and attributed no less than eight assignments to the Authority regarding the obligation to cooperate. This is the basis for the transfer which the government has stated and which the then Director-General does not agree with. However, the transfer decision is therefore justified. We note that the various images are unfortunate, that there had to be a clearer anchoring of Försäkringskassan's board and that there could have been a clearer documentation on the matter. However, as far as the documentation is concerned, we in the committee also say that it should be taken into account what documentation should be made. We think it would be unfortunate to make a general demand for documentation. There are specific reasons for each individual transfer, and it would be an increased administrative burden for a government if it needed to document this every time. In addition, there is very sensitive information about a government's relationship with the Directors-General and how they do their job. We do not want this to be documented on an individual basis. We believe that this would be unfortunate for the power of appointment, and it also undermines trust between the government and the Director-General. Madam President, I would like It has been argued that Annika Strandhäll has both lied to the KU and violated labour law. There is no support for these claims in this review. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to say that I have a great honour in being a member of the Constitutional Committee with colleagues in this House. I have the honour of working on the issues and laws that form the basis of our society and our democracy, namely the constitutions. It requires care, care, responsibility, and thoughtfulness. It is something other than the political context in which the war on the most important tweet is going on and where politicians compete for who can score the most political points in a debate. It is superficial policy, which is not suitable for the Constitutional Committee if we are to work to protect our Constitution. However, I do not only pay tribute to working on the issues themselves, but also to participating in the important and special work of the Constitutional Committee on the review of how the empire is governed. In this context, I am proud to be able to put aside party political bickering and instead step into the role of the good internal auditor that the Constitutional Committee is intended to be. It's kind of tough, and it requires a high degree of integrity. We will try, as far as possible, to be objective, regardless of the color of the government, and to review the duties of the ministers. Each of us MPs has the opportunity to report a minister to the Constitutional Committee for review if the member does not feel that the Government has complied with the usual rules resulting from the office. It is a central part of the legitimacy of the government to tolerate such a procedure. But it is up to us to ensure that scrutiny remains factual and does not degenerate in party politics. I will not defend the wrongs of a minister, even if the minister is a party partner. In the same way, I shall not be making unfounded criticisms of a minister just because I belong to the opposition. Our examination must be well founded in the facts we have been able to find, and we need to be united – otherwise what the KU says will be neither legitimate nor serious. Madam President, I would like I'm sorry I'm running out of time a little bit, but this feels important to say. Not many years ago, the KU was heading that way, just as many have been in the past. It is thanks to the solid work of Björn von Sydow and Andreas Norlén that the committee has now been able to land in a united review report. Madam President, I would like It is with great sadness that I note how easy it is to again end up where the KU was a number of years ago: in party politics and great discord. In this review process, particularly with regard to the transfer of the Director-General of the Social Insurance Agency, we have been on our way in the ditch many times. Some have argued that the Government has lied and violated labour law or has already determined in the hearing what errors have been committed and how they have been committed. This has been done before all the facts were on the table. And when party leaders have decided in advance what the KU will come up with, the leaders put their members of the Constitutional Committee in an extremely difficult situation, which was exactly what happened in the case of the transfer of the Director-General of the Social Insurance Agency. But, Madam President, I am pleased to note that we are once again consecrating the legitimacy of the KU and landing in a united, balanced final report. When party politics otherwise feels like a wind flute that changes depending on how the current political winds blow, it is more important than ever that the constitutional committee's review work stands firm. It is with honour and pride that I am on this committee. Thank you to the office for your excellent work! Thank you, committee colleagues, for this Parliamentary meeting. Thank you to the President and Vice-President for your work in the Bureau. Special thanks to the veterans of the committee, who have been a rock in piloting us who are new at work!
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-192	Madam President, I would like If the previous chapter we debated was a limited one, then we must think that this is something more comprehensive. It contains four interesting and exciting matters, the first of which is a law on new residence permits, also known as the Upper Secondary Education Act. This case contains a rich flora of constitutional considerations. It is about the position and role of the Law Council, it is about the preparation requirement for a bill to be submitted to the Riksdag and it is about the government's responsibility to be prepared to lead the Reich even in a difficult and tricky situation that can require rapid action. In conclusion, it must be said that this is a matter on which there have been very different views politically. However, when we have looked at how the work has been done formally, we have been able to see that there are, of course, areas for improvement. One such area of improvement is possibly the readiness with which the government should arm itself to be sure of being able to deal with an emerging situation. The report states, among other things, that it was a state where we had received a large influx of people who applied for a residence permit in Sweden in the autumn of 2015 and that these people were to a large extent at risk of turning 18 before a review of their cases could be completed. It should have been clear at that point that a certain level of preparedness could be needed to deal with such a situation and the possible consequences that it would entail. I also think it is important, in this context, to highlight the very important review function of the Law Council before a proposal is submitted to Parliament. In the Law Council are some of the kingdom's most experienced and competent lawyers, and their advice weighs heavily. As has been mentioned before, the government has the opportunity to deviate from the recommendations and views of the Law Council if justified. The parliamentary committee is then responsible for examining whether the reasons are complete. Here there may be reason to remind Parliament's committees of the very important audit function that one has when dealing with a proposal where the Law Council has made criticisms or questionings. Then we come to the question of the processing requirement in this matter. Here you can have a variety of approaches. But what is important for the Constitutional Committee is to ensure that the requirement is met. The Constitutional Committee has then been confronted with the question: when was the requirement met? Was it when the bill was submitted to the Riksdag, or was it after the Finance Committee had taken further consideration of the matter? The committee does not give a strong opinion on this. However, we note that the Committee on Finance did not criticise the preparation requirement when it chose to deal with the proposal. When the President chose to put the question under the bill, there was another point along the way. The Parliament finally chose to approve the bill, albeit with very different motives politically once it came to the Chamber. Madam President, I would like A personal reflection is that we must sometimes, even in other committees outside the Constitutional Committee, attach a little extra importance to this particular form of formal examination when we receive proposals to the Swedish Parliament, because the Finance Committee's report does not show whether or not it has approved the reasons given for derogating from the recommendations of the Legislative Council. This chapter of the report also includes the case of the press secretary of the Minister for Defence, who, before taking up her duties with the Minister for Defence, had a company active in the defence industry. It was a secondary job that was found not to be entirely appropriate during the employment. Measures were taken at the time when the person in question chose to sell and dispose of his shares in the company. It eventually became common knowledge that they had been disposed of to a related party, which may be considered less appropriate, especially because it is not a matter of any ministerial post but of a ministerial post dealing with the defence and security of the nation. And the credibility of this particular form of political office must be safeguarded, especially in relation to the other countries. When something like this happens, there is of course a great responsibility for the individual to be transparent with his employer and to be honest and honest. However, we can note that when dealing with this form of very important part of the government of the kingdom, there may be reason to review the current procedures for following up this form of controls on ancillary activities. This is also what the committee says. When, in the present case, the full value of the company was in the personal contacts of the owner of the company itself, it could be considered that there was reason to ask a further question of how the value of the company could be maintained even though the owner disposed of the shares to someone else. The issue of the evaluation of the Security Council campaign is also one of interest to those who are constitutionally interested, perhaps even outside this very narrow circle of people on our planet. The evaluator, who was employed for a limited period of time, had an idea of his role and position, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs possibly had a different shade of the perception of the position of the person in question. This, of course, is something that might be useful to clarify, and it is at a rather early stage of employment so that there is no confusion about this. There are some prerequisites for an act to be regarded as an al man. Either it's established or it's in. Our investigation has focused on determining whether the documents in this particular case were drawn up or received, and then the status of the examined person is decisive for what they are. Here we can see that we may not be able to clarify whether they are drawn up or, above all, received, because there is a lack of practice precisely with regard to a document received from a former employee who submits a document relating to what the person concerned has worked with in a workplace in the past. In this case, the committee does not take a position on the legal situation, as the legal situation is not quite clear. What we do note, however, is that the handling of the request from Dagens Nyheter, and to some extent also from the Committee on Foreign Affairs, took quite a long time– in fact too much time. In addition, when replying to the request from Dagens Nyheter, reference was made to an incorrect statute. This took the opportunity of today's News to follow up on this request legally. The handling of our public documents is an important part of our democratic governance and transparency in how we lead the country. It was something that we chose early in our democratic history to decide for would be a cornerstone of our way of managing the government of the kingdom. It is therefore important that we continue to safeguard this in our role as a constitutional committee but also as representatives of the people in various roles. It is therefore extremely sad that we have this as a recurring theme in the constitutional committee's reviews – something that we should have addressed over time. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude with perhaps the most talked about issue in this chapter. It is about the transfer of the former Director General of Försäkringskassan Ann-Marie Begler. When you hire someone as Director-General, you take on employer responsibility as a government. It is a special employer's responsibility based on an appointment, and it must relate to the Act on Public Employment. There is, of course, the right to transfer. And there has been concern that the Constitutional Committee, if it is too clear in its constructive audit criticism, would restrict the government's ability to deal with the movement of Directors-General. In this context, I would like to point out that the Members of this House are doing well to reflect on the first chapter of the form of government. Paragraph 1, third paragraph, that public power is exercised under the laws. It is inevitable, and it is therefore important to always relate to the laws when exercising that form of power. That is why the committee also notes that it is important to adhere to the Law on Public Employment when transferring Directors-General. This is not to restrict the appointing authority or the transfer instrument, but to ensure legal certainty when this happens. Special reasons shall be given if a movement takes place immediately. In this context, Ann-Marie-Marie Begler, when she was informed of her transfer, was asked by the Ministry's representatives to have such particular reasons presented. The committee notes that it was not a voluntary transfer, that she did not see it as a voluntary transfer, and that no particular reasons were ever given. There should be a consensus or voluntary approach in this context, and we must note that there was no voluntary approach. Voluntaryity means that, in practice, it is done on the employee's own initiative. The committee notes that it is for the Government to ensure that the dialogue between employees and employers works in this context. There is a lack of dialogue in this regard. It has been stated that there have been several different assignments from the government to Försäkringskassan and Försäkringskassan's Director General to improve the so-called coordination obligation. This is right and proper, but the majority have also shown that the dialogue on how this has been perceived and the dissatisfaction that has existed with dealing with the obligation to coordinate could have been better. Documentation on this and the movement itself has been difficult or impossible to obtain. Finally, the Constitutional Committee notes that when you have an authority that is a board authority, it is reasonable to assume that the board should be informed of this form of crucial management issues for the agency. Madam President, I would like I apologise for having oversold my speaking time.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-218	Madam President, I would like I too would like to thank my colleagues in the committee for their good discussions. Thank you very much also to our very competent and diligent committee office! Politically, there is a sharp dividing line in the Chamber in view of the societal benefits of migration and Sweden's future challenges in this area. However, since the review by the Constitutional Committee does not concern the material content of political decisions, but the way in which they have been created, I will stick to that very point in my speech. I am, of course, talking about the preparation of proposals for a new residence permit. Nor will I go into too much detail about the substance of what is going on in the cases where there is very good and detailed evidence in the written version of these cases. Having said that, however, I would like to highlight a number of points in our position which I think are particularly important. The committee stresses the importance of maintaining both the review requirements of the government form and the review of the Law Council. These create the conditions for quality in legislative work. The KU also points to the importance of the provisions of the Parliamentary Order on the budgetary process for the maintenance of the principle of full and comprehensive budgetary management, including in connection with changes in the state's budget. In the present case, the Legislative Council, among other things, has taken a particularly strong view of the proposal, stating that the limit has been reached on what is acceptable in terms of how legislation can be drafted. The government, which has had a political will, despite this very sharp criticism, to introduce the law, has then responded to the criticism of the Law Council in the bill and obtained a parliamentary basis to get through the amendment of the law in the House. The KU has previously stated that such argumentation is important in order for the Riksdag in the preparation of a proposal to be given the opportunity to consider the reasons behind the position not to comply with the Law Council. The committee has also had to examine whether the government could have avoided a haste by having sufficient international coverage. The KU notes that in certain situations preparation needs to deviate from normal procedures but that the need for urgent preparations should to some extent be avoided by continuous external monitoring, good anticipation and preparedness. In autumn 2015, Sweden received a significant number of asylum seekers. This resulted, among other things, in a high load on the Migration Agency. The work pointed out on several occasions that several unaccompanied young people were at risk of reaching the age of 18 before their cases were dealt with. At the same time, the Finnish Immigration Service stated in a forecast in July 2017 that all asylum seekers who arrived in Sweden in 2015 and 2016 would have their cases examined by the agency in time. Although the asylum process during the current period was special, the KU wishes to stress the importance of the Government and the Government Office being familiar with various issues through continuous international monitoring, good anticipation and preparedness, so that matters can, as far as possible, be prepared in accordance with the usual procedures. Madam President, I would like In the case of the transfer of the Director-General of Försäkringskassan there are a number of points to make. However, I would like to point out that I am pleased that we were able to agree on this too many so charged issues. In order for the State administration to function as intended, proper governance is required. In several respects, the State authorities have an independent position. At the same time, the administration is governed by the government and has the task of implementing its policy. If these two functions do not work – the government's legal governance and the independent implementation of politics by the state administration – society does not work. That is precisely why the review carried out by the Constitutional Committee is so important, and that is precisely why it is so important that the principles resulting from our positions are indeed respected. The government must comply with the Law on Public Employment. The current scheme for separating or transferring a head of authority from employment aims to ensure the independence of the authorities and their managers. Therefore, there must be objective and objectively acceptable reasons for the execution of a decision on the transfer of a Head of Authority. In addition, it must be for the Government to prepare questions about appointments and transfers in such a careful manner that it can be assumed that the Head of Authority in question will remain for the duration of the appointment. It is by now widely known that the representatives of the Government and the former Director-General have different views on what has occurred in the government dialogues and in the dialogue on Begler's continued employment as Director-General. As the committee has noted, this is unsatisfactory. In order for the review to be meaningful, the KU must be able to expect that the information provided will help to provide clarity and a true picture of what has happened. What has been made clear is that the transfer took place against her will. When she asked for the reasons for her transfer, she met with silence. The Government must ensure that the right conditions are in place to remove a Head of Government from his employment and that these are also clearly acknowledged to the Head of Authority. In addition to this, it has emerged that the necessary documentation on the relocation was lacking and that the Authority's Management Board was not sufficiently involved. As I said a moment ago, if the political governance of the authorities fails, the social apparatus does not function as intended. For the shortcomings revealed in the audit, the Government is responsible. Madam President, I would like Finally, a word on the appointment of a press secretary at the Ministry of Defence. The KU's position takes on something very important, and I now read before the first two sentences of our joint text: There should not even be reason to suspect that someone in the government or the Government Office benefits e.g. himself or someone close to him. ..................................................... In short, a press secretary to the Minister for Defence has claimed in connection with her employment that she has disbanded the involvement of her company when she has actually transferred the same to a close relative. Since the Ministry did not pay due attention to this in due time, the KU considers that the procedures should be reviewed in order to ensure that employees in the Government Office are given the necessary attention to their responsibilities in terms of objectivity and impartiality and to the ethical guidelines. Madam President, I would like Some time ago, the Group of States Against Corruption reviewed the Swedish work in this area and noted that bribery is very rare in Sweden but that conflicts of interest and friendship corruption are all the more common. The Group considered that awareness of these forms of corruption is necessary and that rules aimed at high officials and police personnel need to be clarified regarding integrity and conflicts of interest. The Constitutional Committee is therefore in good company when we come to the conclusion that the Government Office should consider more closely whether there is a need for clearer regulation of employees in the Government Office. If the law's demands for objectivity and impartiality are not respected, trust in the public will be undermined. Nevertheless, the fact that this and many other things are being addressed and examined by a united constitutional committee suggests that the control functions function and perform their function.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-244	Madam President, I would like The matter of the transfer of the Director-General of Försäkringskassan is the matter that during this year's spring review attracted the greatest attention. Let me therefore take this opportunity to discuss some of the issues raised in the general debate. First of all, Minister Strandhäll provided various information on the reason for the transfer, partly at the press conference on 27 April 2018, and partly at the KU hearing on 25 April this year. The fact that there is some discrepancy between the statements of the State Council on these occasions is indisputable and easily verifiable to anyone by looking at these broadcasts afterwards. The interesting thing is how there is a discrepancy. At the hearing of the KU on 8 April, one of the State Council's then State Secretary stated that the reason why the Government at the press conference last year was not even more forceful in its criticism of the way in which the Social Insurance Agency failed to cooperate under the leadership of the then Director-General was that the Government had already communicated this directly to the Director-General and had no need to criticise the Director-General publicly. I am aware that not everyone accepts this task, but I would nevertheless like to point out that explanations have been given. The discrepancy has not been left behind. I would also like to point out that Mrs Strandhäll and her State Secretary have been consistent about the reasons for the separation of the then Director-General and the handling of the matter from the first response memorandum to the KU on 21 February this year and then during all the collection of documents, both in writing and orally. Here, too, I know that not everyone can be convinced of the reasons given by the State Council, but I would like to say that it cannot be said with good reason that the KU's investigation has provided contradictory information from the Council of State and its staff. Mr President, I would like to Outside the Chamber and, unfortunately, even in this House, strong words have already been used on this matter of scrutiny. In May, party leaders and colleagues who themselves do not sit on the Constitutional Committee have drawn far-reaching conclusions on the KU's review. It has been claimed that Strandhäll has gone with untruth in the KU. It has been claimed that the government has violated labour law. I find these statements to be serious and deeply unfortunate. They have not only pre-empted the KU's review. I would like to go so far as to say that they have abused the KU's scrutiny. The allegations are serious because they lack coverage. They lacked coverage when they were spoken in this House, and they still lack coverage. Parliament is the main representative of the people. We live and work in the trust business. When we in this House cannot stick to reality, how can we ask others to do so outside this House in the increasingly polarised climate of debate? Let me therefore comment on these allegations. Has Minister Strandhäll gone with untruth in the KU? No, it's not proven in the KU's investigation. Everyone agrees that the Government, her then State Secretary and the then Director-General have different images of how the criticism of the shortcomings in the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's obligation to cooperate and coordinate was communicated. This concerns both the period up to and the very time of 25 April last year when the Government declared that the Government lacked confidence in the then Director-General. To conclude from the relationship with conflicting images that the Council of State has gone untruthful about the reasons for the separation from office is therefore, diplomatically expressed, far-reaching. So to the claim that the government violated labour law. The Government and her employees have argued that the decision has not been taken on the basis of the Act on Public Employment. The then Director-General has said that he is surprised that only this year, when she received the documents obtained by the KU on the matter and was given the opportunity to comment on them, had she learned that the employer's position was that the decision was not taken on the basis of the Law on Public Employment. Has the government violated labour law? No, nor has that been shown in the KU's investigation. The question whether the Government's decision to transfer a Director-General – even if the decision is in fact accepted by the Director-General – can legally be qualified as a transfer decision under Section 33 of the Public Employment Act is very interesting. It is just one catch: that question has not been settled legally. It was up at the Labour Court when Maria Ågren sued the state, but the Labour Court chose not to examine it. The KU therefore does not take a stand on this issue, and that is what it should be. The role of the KU is not – nor should it be – to set a precedent for labour law. The role of the KU is to carry out a constitutional review. Mr President, I would like to No one needs to doubt that the Center Party honors the proud Swedish official tradition and the independence and integrity of heads of government vis-à-vis the government and parliament. But let me put the question in context and remind you that when the Parliament chose not to introduce ministerial government into the Constitution, in contrast to many other countries, independent and independent officials were balanced with the instrument of the government's movement. As far as the Centre Party is concerned, the decision to move the then Director-General was bad in substance. We still believe that Ann-Marie-Marie Begler is a competent head of authority and would have liked to have seen her continue to have confidence as Director General of Försäkringskassan. We believe that the government's handling of the matter is flawed, but the question in the KU's constitutional review has not been about the then Director-General but about the government's formal handling. The KU highlights the shortcomings in the Government's and her employees' handling of the transfer of the Director General of Försäkringskassan and holds the Government responsible for the shortcomings identified in the review. This is a lack of documentation and a lack of dialogue with the Agency's Management Board. Since Försäkringskassan is a board authority and therefore the board is fully responsible for the authority before the government, it is unsatisfactory that the chairman of the board has been confronted with the completion of the fact when the Government has moved the Director General from the post. Although the Chairman of the Board participated in 4 of the 16 government dialogues conducted by the Ministry of Social Affairs' management with Försäkringskassan's management during the period from 25 January 2017 to 9 April 2018, according to the Government, the growing criticism and frustration of Försäkringskassan's lack of coordination mission should have more clearly involved the Board as well. Mr President, I would like to Another important issue where there is a need for strong improvement measures by the Government is the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' non-compliance and incorrect application of the principle of public access. In the audit case, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' handling of an evaluation of the Security Council campaign, disturbing information has emerged about the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' inability to perform basic tasks in Swedish government, namely disclosure of public documents and public action. During the KU hearing, the Government of Margot Wallström presented the programme of measures implemented by the Ministry last year, known as Action 2018. Given that, as recently as last year, the KU again pointed out the need for the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to ensure that the working methods used are compatible with the freedom of the press acquis, the implementation of this action programme will not be too late. In view of the serious shortcomings highlighted in the current review report, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs still has considerable competence development ahead of it, not least because there is also a certain turnover of staff in all major organisations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must now ensure that all employees know what applies and that procedures regarding such fundamental aspects of government work. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs is not the exception to the Constitution, but, like all other Swedish authorities, must of course comply with the requirements of the Constitution and the law of public access and confidentiality. The KU assumes that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs is now taking all necessary measures to address the shortcomings in the activities related to the management of documents by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-267	Mr President, I would like to In this year's review, there are several interesting and high-profile cases, in particular in this section. It is clear to me as a new Member of the Riksdag that certain questions arise in relation to the scrutiny matters. This concerns in particular the handling of documents and the lack of documentation. In the case of the preparation of the so-called Upper Secondary Education Act, I would like to stress the importance of a continuous international monitoring and good foresight. The review shows that the Migration Agency pointed out at an early stage that several unaccompanied young people were at risk of turning 18 before receiving a decision from the Migration Agency. Sometimes there may be a need for urgent preparations. However, through good preparedness and external monitoring, such preparation should be avoided as far as possible and should instead be carried out according to regular procedures. In the case of the transfer of the Director-General of the Social Insurance Agency, it is unfortunate that representatives of the Government and the then Director-General have so widely differing images of what has happened, both in the public service dialogues and in the dialogue on the continuation of the position as Director-General. It is the government's task to govern and manage the administration. However, this is calling for a clear and confident dialogue with the authorities. This year's review shows that the dialogue between the Ministry and the Director-General has not met the requirements that can be imposed. It is clear that the views of the Social Insurance Agency and how the Social Insurance Agency carried out its task of interacting with the stakeholders were not understood by the Authority's then Director General. Where consideration is given to separating a head of authority from his/her position, account should be taken of the documentation that may be needed from the dialogue that has taken place. When an authority, as in the case of Försäkringskassan, is led by a board, the board must also be involved when there are views regarding the authority's management. Mr President, I would like to Another noted review concerns a press secretary's employment at the Ministry of Defence and his involvement and ownership in a company related to the Ministry of Defence's responsibilities. In connection with the employment, the Government Office's ethical guidelines were clarified, which deal with issues such as conflict of interest, by-laws and other conflicts of interest. The provisions are in place to prevent employees from engaging in acts of trust that may upset confidence in the impartiality of workers and damage the confidence of the general public. When the secretary was hired, he was told that he would wind up his business and ownership in the company. However, it was later found that this had not happened when ownership was transferred to a loved one. On this basis, the KU believes that the procedures should be reviewed so that employees in the Government Office are adequately informed about the merits, impartiality and ethical guidelines. Mr President, I would like to The last matter I want to touch on concerns the evaluation of the Security Council campaign at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its management. It is clear that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs has and still has shortcomings in its record keeping. It is not a new problem but is unfortunately recurring year after year, regardless of the color of the government. It is worrying that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' handling of documents repeatedly gives rise to complaints that are highlighted in different supervisory and audit contexts. It is, to say the least, a breach of confidence. As regards the position of the evaluation in relation to the department, it appears that the evaluator and the department have had different views on the evaluator's independence. The status of the evaluator is directly relevant to the handling of documents by the Authority from the point of view of freedom of the press. It is therefore important that the Ministry ensures that the nature of the mission and the issue of independence are carefully examined in advance, in order to ensure that all handling of documents is done properly. KU has also examined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' handling of Dagens Nyheter's and the Foreign Affairs Committee's request to take part in the evaluation. The review shows that the information given to Dagens Nyheter was unclear and partly misleading. With regard to the handling of the request made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it may be assumed that there is a dialogue if a requested document is public or not and for what reason it is not disclosed. However, it can be noted that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs prepared members from the Foreign Affairs Committee the opportunity to access the relevant material at the Ministry. However, it is possible to consider with what legal support the committee was prepared for this. Finally, I would like to thank the Office for their good work.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-280	Mr President, I would like to We have come to chapter 2, the handling of certain government matters, etc. In the review, we have examined the preparation of proposals for a new possibility to obtain a residence permit – what is popularly known as the High School Act. In this context, the committee stresses the importance of the review requirements of the government form and the review by the Law Council. The committee also points to the importance of the provisions of the Parliamentary Order on the budgetary process for the maintenance of the principle of full and comprehensive budgetary management. We note that a parliamentary review was necessary in order for the law to be considered prepared. In addition, it is noted that the proposal was preceded by urgent preparation, which meant that the usual procedures for the preparation of legislative proposals were abandoned. As previously stated by the committee, in certain situations the preparation may have to deviate from the usual procedures, but the need for urgent preparations should be avoided at least to some extent by continuous external monitoring and good anticipation and preparedness. The review shows that the Migration Agency pointed out at an early stage that several unaccompanied young people were at risk of turning 18 before the Migration Board's decision. ..................................................... The KU concludes by emphasising the importance of continuous environmental monitoring and good anticipation and preparedness for the preparation as far as possible in accordance with normal procedures. The matter of the Director-General of Försäkringskassan has, of course, been the most attentive of the 16 cases and 18 notifications handled by KU. Personally, I didn't think it would get that much attention. But that's what happened. I believe that this is largely due to the fact that the trial has taken place in different ways. The government can be tried by oral questions in this House. The Prime Minister and the Ministers get questions, and in this way the Riksdag has the opportunity to review in various respects. We also have written questions. The instrument of interpellation is also available. Then there are the KUs that try strictly constitutionally. And there is the possibility of a vote of censure. What is the difference between the latter two, the KU's review and the motion of censure? The vote of censure is, of course, what the word says: a question of whether there is confidence in a given minister or in a prime minister, and then it is crucial if the government can remain in office. On what grounds is there a motion of censure? It is done on strict political grounds. You don't have or don't have political trust. The motion of censure has nothing to do with a constitutional test, except indirectly in that case. It is handled by the parliamentary groups, and it is handled by the party leaders. It'll never end up on the KU's table. Then there is the constitutional test. That's what we've done. That's the one we've agreed on. That is what we have done and now stand united behind and report. In the constitutional test, which is supported by the KU, we stress that the government is responsible to the Riksdag for the administration's activities and must be able to reassign a head of authority if it believes that the management is not exercised adequately. At the same time, the Government must always comply with the provisions on the transfer of the Law on Public Employment (LOA) so as not to undermine the purpose behind them, even in the absence of a compulsory resignation. The KU considers that it is for the Government to prepare questions about appointments and transfers in such a careful manner that it can be assumed that the Head of Authority in question will remain for the duration of the appointment. This is, in the view of the KU, a good order, which should always apply. In the committee's view, there is no reason to be less careful in a situation where a Head of State and the Government agree that the Head of Government should leave his employment in an authority to be employed in the Government Office than if the separation from the employment is against the will of the Head of Authority. In the present review, the representatives of the Government and the former Director-General have various pictures of what has occurred in both the government dialogue and the dialogue on Ann-Marie-Marie Begler's continued position as Director-General. The Government and the former state secretaries have stressed to the committee that there was a consensus between Ann-Marie-Marie Begler and the Ministry that she could not continue as Director General of the Social Insurance Agency because there was no trust. Ann-Marie-Marie Begler claims, for her part, that she has asked, in talks with the former Secretary of State, what particular reasons were there for carrying out the transfer immediately. The fact that the information provided in the audit is so disparate is unsatisfactory. The committee shall be able to expect that the information provided will help to provide clarity and a fair view of what has happened. As can be seen from what I have read before, it is the government's task to rule the kingdom and to lead the administration, which calls for a clear and confident dialogue with the authorities. According to the committee, the examination shows that the dialogue between the Ministry and the Director-General has not met the demands that can be made in this regard. The views on how the Swedish Social Insurance Agency carried out its task of interacting with the stakeholders were not perceived by the Director-General of the Agency. It is also clear, according to the committee, that the transfer took place against the will of Ann-Marie-Marie Begler. When Ann-Marie-Marie Begler asked for the reasons for her transfer, she did not receive them. According to the committee, it falls to the Government to ensure that the conditions for moving a head of authority from his employment exist and that these are also clarified to the head of authority. Furthermore, the committee notes that no documentation on the transfer was available. In the context of the consideration of whether there were and are sufficient and strong reasons for separating a Head of Authority from his/her employment, the committee also considers that consideration should be given to the documentation that may be needed by the dialogue with the Head of Administration. In this context, the committee would like to point out that, in cases where an authority, such as the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, is headed by a board, the board must also be involved when comments concerning the authority's management are raised by the Ministry. The Government is responsible for the shortcomings identified in the review. Another review concerns a press secretary's employment at the Ministry of Defence. The review has revealed that, in connection with her employment, the press secretary had contact with the then Head of Expedition and Justice at the Department regarding the winding-up of the Secretary's involvement and ownership in a particular company. This contact took place in accordance with the current routine. The committee considers it appropriate to note that it has not been known that the company has been transferred to its immediate relatives. How it comes about and why the issue of her remaining involvement in the company has not been noticed and investigated until August 2018 is not stated in our review. According to the committee, there is room to question whether the procedures of the Government Office are adequate. The procedures should be reviewed with a view to ensuring that workers in the Government Office are adequately made aware of their responsibilities in terms of objectivity and impartiality and of the ethical guidelines. In doing so, the Government Office should consider in more detail whether there is a need for clearer regulation of employees under the Political Agreement with central locations, such as press secretaries. The committee stresses the importance of respecting the constitutional requirements of objectivity and impartiality and of continuing efforts to maintain confidence in the general public. Let me move on. In the review of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' handling of an evaluation of the Security Council campaign, the committee argues that the Ministry's assessment of the evaluator's position vis-à-vis the Ministry from the point of view of freedom of the press is of direct importance for the Authority's handling of documents arising from the mission. It appears that a discrepancy has occurred between the department's assessment and the evaluator's interpretation of the mission. The KU therefore stresses the importance of ensuring that the nature of the mission and the issue of independence are carefully examined in advance, and that the Ministry regularly conducts a thorough analysis of freedom of the press in order to ensure that all documents are handled in accordance with the rules on public access to documents. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' handling of Dagens Nyheter's and the Foreign Affairs Committee's request to get the evaluation out. The information in the review shows that the information given to Dagens Nyheter was unclear and partly misleading. As a result, in practice, the possibility of requesting a review by the Authority was also taken up by a decision of a Council of State and ultimately by the Government. The committee considers that the Department's handling of Dagens Nyheter's request has failed. Finally, with regard to the request made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the committee argues that if a document requested is not public and the department does not, for that reason, comply with the request, it may be assumed that the department and the committee have a dialogue on this. The committee notes that members of the Foreign Affairs Committee were admittedly given the opportunity to access the relevant material at the Ministry. However, the discussion that followed the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs for a formal examination was delayed before the documents were finally processed. The review also shows that incomplete information was provided to the Foreign Affairs Committee, and the committee underlines the importance of the Ministry providing complete and accurate information. The fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' handling of documents has again given rise to complaints that have been highlighted in various supervisory and audit contexts is of particular concern, says the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. For the shortcomings highlighted by the committee on this matter, the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot escape responsibility.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-304	Mr President, I would like to A unanimous constitutional committee criticises Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll for handling the transfer of the former Director General of Försäkringskassan Ann-Marie Begler. The background is that the Government decided on Friday 27 April 2018 to transfer Ann-Marie-Marie Begler from her position as Director General of Försäkringskassan. The transfer took place on 1 May. Annika Strandhäll explains this by saying that Ann-Marie-Marie Begler did an excellent job but that the agency needed a new management. She then explained that Försäkringskassan failed to strengthen her collaboration with mainly Arbetsförmedlingen so that individuals do not fall between the chairs, and Ann-Marie-Marie Begler also explained that she had wanted to continue as Director General. What does the law say about this? Under Section 33 of the Public Employment Act, a Head of Government with a fixed-term appointment may be transferred if required for organisational reasons or if otherwise necessary in the interests of the Authority. Movements carried out immediately can only be considered if there are exceptional reasons, says section 37 of the legislative text. Mr President, I would like to This is not a mandatory law, but in the work that describes how the government should react to this, one should just relate to this in all of its decisions. This is where it has broken, i.e. how you have dealt with it. Another point in this section that is worth highlighting and which we in the Constitutional Committee have discussed in the spring is that the Social Insurance Agency is an authority led by a board of directors with full responsibility. The Chairman of the Board has publicly declared that she had not been contacted by the Government regarding dissatisfaction with Ann-Marie-Marie Begler. This is strange when a board has full responsibility, because then it is also responsible for its staff. On the two occasions when government dialogues took place with the Chairman of the Board at the table, according to the Chairman of the Board, no criticism was raised, which is remarkable. The reasons for the criticism in the Constitutional Committee in this case are lack of communication, lack of documentation and shortcomings in the approach to the Law on Public Employment when Ann-Marie-Marie Begler was relocated. When you separate a Director-General from a post, you have to follow certain forms, Mr President. The review clearly shows that Ann-Marie-Marie Begler was transferred against her will with insufficient documentation and without the government's compliance with the Law on Public Employment. When Ann-Marie-Marie Begler asked for the reasons why she was separated from her post, she did not receive any answers, despite the fact that responsibility for this falls to the Government. However, it must be stressed that the government clearly owns the power of appointment and thus the associated power to separate the appointed person from the mission. That is not what this investigation is about. Nor is it about the view of how the Swedish Social Insurance Agency under Ann-Marie-Marie Begler has handled its work or followed the government's instructions. We have, not least the undersigned, often criticised and debated this in this House, but that is not what the matter of scrutiny is about. It is all about the independence and independence of the authorities and the intransigence of a Head of Administration in owning his mission. Unfortunately, the shortcomings in documenting go like a red thread through several of this year's reviews. In this particular case, it is particularly serious. It is important that there are agenda items and/ or commemoration notes on what has been raised at meetings. It is of the utmost constitutional importance that cases can be followed and that the traceability of reasons for decisions etc. is on the agenda, so that documents can be collected to follow up and review a case. The dialogue between the department and Ann ‐ Marie Begler has not met the requirements that can be made, nor the documentation of the dialogue between the department and the authority or the description of what has been raised at meetings. KU's criticism of Annika Strandhäll is that the committee notes that the Government is responsible for the shortcomings that have emerged in the review, which is very strongly expressed by the Constitutional Committee. When the Liberals reported Annika Strandhäll to the Constitutional Committee for wrongly separating Ann-Marie-Marie Begler from her assignment, the suspicion was that the reasons were invalid. The KU has now established that this suspicion was correct.
i-9nv4FSkbMyNH7r79xcsDwZ	Mr President, I would like to In 2014, a campaign was launched for Sweden to have a non-permanent seat in the UN Security Council. The campaign work achieved the goal and ended in 2016. In October of the same year, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs decided to carry out an evaluation of the candidacy work. An investigator was hired to work independently until 12 December 2016, when the evaluation was to be handed over to the Head of UN Policy at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs was not entirely satisfied with the evaluation but suggested changes, which are not common. In January, the investigator submitted an updated version of the document to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. There, previous comments had been taken into account in part. On 2 March 2017, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in turn completed a summary of the conclusions reached by the investigator. The conclusions were published on the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' website the following day. That was where things started to go wrong, Mr President. In March 2017, the Committee on Foreign Affairs requested the full evaluation. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs soon submitted the 13-page summary to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, not the document requested by the committee. In December of the same year, a journalist requested the full evaluation, which would be on 44 pages, but he was denied. An official at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs replied that a summary of 13 pages was the document submitted by the investigator, which would then turn out to be untrue. Furthermore, the refusal was unclear and partly misleading, which led to the impossibility of having the matter examined by a minister or government, something to which one is otherwise entitled. But it won't end there. On 1 March 2018, the Committee on Foreign Affairs reiterated its request to receive the full evaluation, and on 27 March, the Committee formally requested the issue of disclosure of the full version of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' internal evaluation report. Nevertheless, it took until 18 May, almost two months, before the full evaluation was submitted to the committee. There has been no formal examination, despite the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. In conclusion, it can be said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has failed in several areas in this matter. Firstly, information has been withheld when it has been denied that the full investigation exists. This has made it impossible for a journalist to seek redress. Secondly, the duration of the request by the Committee on Foreign Affairs to examine the full version of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' internal evaluation report has been overly long. It has simply submitted the evaluation with a classification mark instead of examining the request for disclosure. Thirdly, the status of the investigator's work has not been clear from the outset. Mr President, I would like to For the shortcomings that the Constitutional Committee has pointed out in this matter, the Minister for Foreign Affairs cannot escape responsibility. Furthermore, the Constitutional Committee considers it extremely worrying that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' handling of documents has repeatedly given rise to complaints. However, the Constitutional Committee also welcomes the efforts that have been made within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this area throughout the administration. It is high time that these shortcomings were rectified, as the Ministry for Foreign Affairs also seems to have realised.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-323	Mr President, I would like to This section, Chapter 3 of the KU20, deals with certain issues concerning the government's responsibility for administration. I will briefly go into each of these, but first let me give a little personal reflection on the spring's work as a whole in the KU. For me, who would like to advocate a pragmatic and compromise approach and see this as a way to move forward and show good leadership for the good of society, the KU's way of working has been inspiring. The role of the KU has been mentioned here today. I would like to mention the concept of the KU spirit, which is based on the fact that narrow party political considerations often have to stand aside for a coherent view of the role of the entire parliamentary reviewer. Not least, the efforts made by the former KU, the current President of which was the President of the Bureau, together with the then Vice-President, Björn von Sydow, have been mentioned here. This has been carried on in the bottling that we are now working on with a meritorious leadership by Karin Enström and Hans Ekström. We are building on the KU spirit that we experience. This in itself may indeed be a challenge for many, I think, but, as I see it, it is ultimately a matter of credibility and trust in the committee's function. The recognised knowledge and competence that actually exists in the Registry is, of course, at the heart of the work, based on the fact that the positions that the report leads to are based on a solid foundation. Having said that, I would like to touch on some of the matters contained in this section. The four notifications have concerned the governance of the Swedish power network, a re-examination of the management of the Swedish Transport Agency, the appointment of the head of the management staff's total defence department and the risks of irregularities in the migration activities of the foreign authorities that have been highlighted on various occasions in recent years. Mr President, I would like to To start with the Swedish power grid, it was a matter that was perhaps initially considered by many to be rather problematic. It was highlighted from the point of view of shortcomings in safety protection and security clearances. The notification that came in requested a review of the government and responsible Minister Ibrahim Baylan to a sufficient extent acted to prevent the serious abuses that were considered to have been discovered at the time by the Swedish power grid. Among other things, what was meant was a conflict of interest in procurement, possible actions to influence the election outcome in the 2018 parliamentary elections and shortcomings in the protection work. Among other things, reference was made to the fact that a designated Director-General wanted to delay information on electricity price increases until after the elections. That is what was referred to with regard to the election outcome. It was further stated in DN that there had been a deviation from the provisions on security and that false information on security clearances had been provided. The questions were raised in committee through hearings by Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan and former Directors-General Mikael Odenberg and Ulla Sandborgh. At the hearing of Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, safety issues related to the Swedish power grid were also discussed. KU's position is that in the present case there have been no shortcomings in the government's way of controlling and keeping informed of the activities. The government's work on security issues can also be highlighted in this context. A national strategy for society's information and cyber security has been developed. This is an expression of the government's overall priorities aimed at providing a platform for further development work in this area. Security issues have also been part of the ongoing dialogue conducted between the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Swedish Power Network. The committee assumes that the government, while respecting the autonomy of the administration, will ensure that the authorities are both governed and kept informed of their activities. In the present case, therefore, there have been no deficiencies in these respects. Mr President, I would like to Another notification requested that the committee examine whether and how, following the events of the Swedish Transport Agency's outsourcing of IT activities, the government ensured that something similar to what happened at the time could not happen again. In this case, reference was made to an article in the DN which in turn referred to a report from the Swedish National Audit Office. The committee's opinion is based on the fact that only Swedish safety-tested and approved personnel have been handling the Swedish Transport Agency's overall IT operations since 1 October 2017. Since 1 October 2018, only the Swedish Transport Agency's own personnel have the highest competence in the Authority's competence system. In this case, the examination does not give rise to a statement from the committee. Mr President, I would like to A third review concerns the appointment of the Head of the Command Staff's General Defence Department. In this case too, the committee notes that the examination does not give rise to any particular statement. Mr President, I would like to However, I would like to say a few words about the final and fourth reviews of this section. It concerns the availability to unauthorised personnel of sensitive information in the IT systems in relation to risks and the handling of migration cases by the foreign authorities. Perhaps one can consider whether the human dimension here becomes part of the problem. The Swedish National Audit Office has also examined the system that the Finnish Immigration Service and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs have been working on. At the hearing, the Minister for Foreign Affairs presented a series of measures taken by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to improve security work and to ensure the proper functioning of the ethical guidelines. There is zero tolerance in the external administration in the case of irregularities and all suspicions are followed up. It can be noted that in 2018, 69 000 residence permit cases were dealt with by the foreign authorities and more than 250 000 visa cases. During the year, 34 suspected irregularities were reported, of which two were confirmed. If an irregularity is found, a worker can either be given a warning or be separated from his post. In conclusion, it can be said that increased transparency and awareness among employees is a way to prevent and work forward-looking. In this examination, too, the committee has not seen any reason to make a statement.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-338	Mr President, I would like to As the previous speaker said, this section concerns four review cases. As has been pointed out several times by the speaker, it is a unanimous report. There is no formal criticism from the Constitutional Committee in relation to these four matters of scrutiny. Having said that, I would nevertheless like to refer to the four reviews which have received a little more media attention. This concerns the issue of the control of Swedish power grids. Swedish power grid is the authority responsible for managing and developing the main grid. They are also responsible for the security of electricity supply in Sweden during various types of crises. The criticism that has emerged and which concerns the notification is that the authority has not properly verified the safety of the company when it has acquired a new safety and control system. Staff have not been classified in accordance with the guidelines laid down and inappropriate conflict of interest has existed within the Authority. There have been signs that there have been serious leadership shortcomings in the authority. That is very serious criticism. It is an important authority with important tasks. The Authority has also pointed out problems in risk and vulnerability analyses a couple of years back. It has been noted that there are a number of problems facing it. Nevertheless, the Constitutional Committee has chosen not to criticise the government in the light of the fact that the agency has reported problems it faces and also presented solutions. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that there is no reason for criticism here. At the same time, I would like to point out that the Constitutional Committee does not take a position on whether the government's management has been complete. The question therefore remains as to whether there has been more that the government could have done. Overall, the third part concerns four review cases where there is no reason for the Constitutional Committee to express formal criticism.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-344	Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has examined the government's handling of the risk of irregularities in migration activities in the foreign authorities. Notification to the Constitutional Committee is based on the Swedish National Audit Office's review report, which states that irregularities have occurred. The Swedish National Audit Office identifies risks of irregularities in handling migration cases and the absence of rules and procedures for controlling such risks and the availability of sensitive information in the IT systems by unauthorised personnel. Mr President, I would like to There are two levels of competence in the migration systems for staff of the foreign authorities. The level of competence of seconded staff is higher than that of local staff. However, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Migration Agency together can grant a local employee the higher level of access after a security clearance. A security clearance is not always easy to perform when it comes to local staff who are not Swedish citizens. Fortunately, it is quite unusual that such security checks need to be carried out. A problem in the handling of permissions applies to staff who terminate their duties or change their duties. In this case, the staff's competence to the IT systems shall also be terminated. The Swedish National Audit Office notes that both the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Migration Agency have failed in this area. Neither the Ministry for Foreign Affairs nor the Migration Agency carry out systematic checks on the privileges. The Finnish Immigration Service lacks this possibility, and the Ministry for Foreign Affairs believes that it is the individual foreign authorities who are responsible for ensuring that the competences are correct. It feels like you blame each other and no one takes responsibility. However, it should be added that access to migration systems also requires physical access to the IT environment, which staff do not have after the end of their service. Mr President, I would like to The Constitutional Committee has stated in its review that the government had already taken a number of measures before the Swedish National Audit Office's report to minimise the risk of irregularities. Further measures have also been taken as a result of the Swedish National Audit Office's recommendations. That's how it's done. The review therefore does not give rise to any statement by the Constitutional Committee. However, the shortcomings mentioned are serious. The government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have some work ahead of them to secure the operation. We must assume that they really take on board the Swedish National Audit Office's criticism and implement the proposed improvements.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-350	Mr President, I would like to I shall select a single dossier out of these four and comment on it, precisely because there is no criticism. This concerns the issue of Swedish power grids, where there have been shortcomings in the work on safety protection and security reviews. Security agreements have initially been lacking in the acquisition of a new control and monitoring system. This was the case that I thought could lead to a similar hearing last year about the Transport Agency and the scandal associated with it. It is with pleasure, Mr President, that in the present case there have been no shortcomings on the part of the government. I think it's so important. In doing so, Mr President, I have saved the five minutes that I may have taken over last time.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-353	Mr President, I would like to I will also comment somewhat on the issue of the governance of the Swedish power grid. With regard to the identified shortcomings in security protection and screening at the Swedish power grid, we can see, as several previous speakers have said, that although we probably thought that this would be one of the heavier cases, this was put to shame – again, it must be emphasised, in a purely constitutional perspective. As far as we can see, the government has handled the shortcomings of the agency in an excellent and correct manner. The committee assumes that the government will ensure that both the authorities and keep themselves informed of their activities, and that relevant parts of the Government Office will be informed when events that may be relevant to national security occur. In the present case, there have been no shortcomings in this respect. Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, what can be considered in relation to this type of case is the Swedish model of administration. This has often been pointed out as something unique, something unprecedented in the world. However, two movements are currently taking place which make the Swedish administration increasingly similar to foreign management systems, which generally have more elements of ministerial management and government, while simultaneously these foreign management systems move in our direction, to less of the mentioned elements. This means that we are no longer quite as unique as we have been. At the same time, the parliamentary scrutiny power in this regard, what we are debating today, is becoming increasingly topical and increasingly important in these areas of movement. Sometimes it is pointed out that independent authorities are something undemocratic and something that is not so good in a free society. However, independent authorities cannot be considered undemocratic, on the contrary. Through laws and regulations, the government can and will influence and govern its administrations, as well as through economic instruments and not least, as we have discussed before, the power of appointment. It follows that if political governance is primarily held at a general level, the status of laws as authoritarian, democratic instruments is promoted. In conclusion, Mr President, it may be appropriate to point out here that the Liberals see the importance of developing the model of governance and the principles of separation of powers under which we live in our country with the introduction of a constitutional court in order to further strengthen our democratic foundations, the free legislative system and the free and independent authorities.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-359	Mr President, I would like to Of course, one of the most important grounds of government in addition to popular government and freedom of expression is that the officials of the agencies observe the facts and impartiality and comply with the law and are not influenced by whimsical and irrelevant considerations or even disregard the nature of the task. These are generally applicable rules and apply in all public activities, always. However, for several years there have been revelations where authorities or high government managers have not met these high demands. Care or discretion within the authorities has been taken into account, ranging from individual activist officers to the Director General of the Swedish Transport Agency. It is therefore sad that as a member of the Swedish Parliament and the Constitutional Committee, it is necessary to present another example where an authority has not lived up to Swedish administrative law principles. Swedish power networks – an important authority that manages the operation, management and development of the Swedish electricity core network and, in addition, is the system responsible authority and the power preparedness authority – must operate impeccably. During this spring's review, the Constitutional Committee has found that there have been shortcomings in the work on security and security clearances. Security agreements have been lacking in the acquisition of a new control and surveillance system. Newly employed staff in certain services have not been immediately screened on the basis of the security class established. These shortcomings have been accompanied by systematic work on security issues at the Swedish power grid in the form of risk and vulnerability analyses established within the public authority's field of activity. In these analyses, Svenska Kraftnät has also reported on implemented, ongoing and planned measures. The Constitutional Committee notes that security issues have been part of the ongoing dialogue between the Ministry of Environment and Energy and the Swedish Power Network. The review has not revealed that Swedish power networks in these dialogues have reported some of the shortcomings that have later become known. Nor have these shortcomings been highlighted by the risk and vulnerability analyses. The fact that the committee has found it serious that an authority with important social tasks has not properly handled security and security clearances is therefore not surprising. Furthermore, the committee has found that the government, while respecting the autonomy of the administration in accordance with the form of government, has ensured that both the authorities are in charge and kept informed of their activities and can be assumed to continue to do so. Before concluding this, however, Mr President, I would like to make the personal reflection that it should prejudice the government's ability to govern its authorities – and thus, by extension, make it more difficult for the Constitutional Committee to be able to examine the government's government's governance in a fair manner – when the authorities do not endeavour to properly carry out, document and report their actions to the departments. Given the development of society, I regret to say that this is not the last time that a spring review contains positions of this kind, and it is sad.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-368	Mr President, I would like to My speech on the performance of the duties of the Minister of State includes the following reviews: G2, G3, G5, G6, G9, G10 and G18. I will summarise these in a general and comprehensive way. The common denominator in the reviews is the said word. Our ministers will speak in their areas and make clear positions. There's nothing strange about it, but sometimes you have to keep your tongue right in your mouth. Mr President, I would like to The challenge arises when the recipient hears and perceives something other than what was meant to be said, or, as also happens, when the statement is completely taken out of context and thus becomes very wrong or one-sided. We have had matters on the table where the Minister made statements in the role of party representative, and here it will be difficult to know, as the recipient, what the role of the person in question is at that particular moment. We have had reviews which stemmed from the fact that the Council of Ministers has been particularly emotional on certain issues, and thus the individual statement has been reinforced. You might even say something with a smile on your face, but it is not clear in text, and it matters. What kind of politicians do we really want? I don't think either of us in this Chamber can disconnect the emotions from the intellect. It is with emotion that we revitalise the political debate and create nuances. Keep it in mind. In previous studies carried out by the committee, it has been stated that, like all other citizens, ministers have the right to make statements in different contexts, but given the special status of a minister, special care should be taken in certain respects. Mr President, I would like to Overall, the committee cannot see that the statements themselves have had consequences which show that there has been a basis for addressing some degree of criticism, but the meaning of the performanceative statement or the meaning of doing something by saying something, as we have heard earlier during the review period, is something that the Constitutional Committee has called on the Council of Ministers to bear in mind since before. Mr President, I would like to As it is my first term of office and I have the honour of being a member of the Constitutional Committee, I would like to thank the Members, and of course the Office, for intense discussions and extremely fruitful results. Not only is unity beautiful, but it also creates confidence in the work we have done and for the work we are going to do in the future. Having said that, I would like to wish Mr President a pleasant summer!
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-377	Mr President, I would like to This part of the review by the Constitutional Committee concerns six reviews of essentially statements by various ministers. Ministers, like everyone else, can say in principle anything – we have freedom of expression here in Sweden – but there are a few things that are especially up to ministers to think about. The first thing is that a statement must be factual. This has been stated by the Riksdag as a prop that should apply to the statements of ministers. Although they may be polemic and pointed, they must nevertheless be correct in their empirical content. The second point is that statements must not jeopardise or in any way affect the independence of courts or authorities, and it is also crucial that ministers do not make statements that are directly in conflict with what other ministers are saying or what is the official position of the government. This is particularly true in relation to other states, i.e. in foreign policy. Two of the statements that have been examined concern Alice Bah Kuhnke, the former Minister of Culture. One of the reviews concerns a statement by Alice Bah Kuhnke that she would arrange a meeting with the Head of the National Police to follow up police work on an action plan. There the Constitutional Committee notes that the meaning of what Alice Bah Kuhnke said was to ensure that the police keep in touch with all publishers. The Constitutional Committee notes that this is not a task for the police, and so her statement is incorrect. Her second statement, which was examined, concerned film support. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that what she said was not incorrect, but that when a minister makes a statement on the meaning of which there may be questions, it is important that a minister, in this case Alice Bah Kuhnke, clarify the facts so that there is no uncertainty as to what was actually said. Finally, we also have a statement from Mrs Wallström that she could never forgive Britain for Brexit. In this respect, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that it is important that ministers, in particular, who speak things about relations with other states, do so in a considered manner and that it does not give rise to misunderstandings or that a signal is sent to another state that we have changed our approach or policy in relation to that state if it is not intended. The Constitutional Committee notes that this has not happened in this case. No one interpreted Margot Wallström's statement as saying that Sweden as a state cannot forgive Britain. In this respect, there is no reason for criticism. The Constitutional Committee does not take a position on political substance, as has been pointed out several times before. The question of whether this was a sensible or a good statement is something on which the Constitutional Committee does not speak. Other players are free to make their own assessment of it. Having said that, I would like to agree with the previous speaker's view that we cannot have politicians who have no feeling and who cannot have a glimpse in their eyes and make even spontaneous comments. But having the feeling and the glimpse in your eye does not justify indiscriminate statements. I would also like to conclude by saying that it should be noted that the Prime Minister's statement in connection with the hearing on this matter is problematic. The Prime Minister said that it is not possible to establish any rules for so-called performanceal statements, that is to say those that have an impact on our foreign policy. The Constitutional Committee has stated in previous reviews, as has the Foreign Affairs Committee, that there are clear definitions of what can be considered a performative statement.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-387	Mr President, I would like to Of course we should have ministers who can take part in the general political debate. It would be boring if they were not allowed to make statements here and there. However, it is important that these statements are factual and correct, that they do not interfere in the case of individual independent administrations, and that they do not prejudge legal proceedings in the courts. I thought I'd focus on audit case number six. A report has been submitted to the Constitutional Committee asking it to examine a statement by former Minister of Housing Peter Eriksson. The statement was made in SVT, and it concerned the housing situation of new arrivals after the end of the state's start-up aid for two years. It is as if all of Sweden's municipalities have been allocated new arrivals. The Housing Act stipulates that municipalities must provide housing for these. They shall be a priority group. In this context, the State pays a start-up aid for a period of two years. Municipalities in Sweden have chosen to deal with this issue in different ways after the two years. Some municipalities have chosen to interpret the law so that after two years all citizens of the municipality will be treated equally whether they are Swedish citizens or if they have a permanent residence permit, and they can apply for housing on the same terms with the Housing Agency. If it doesn't work, the municipal social services will help them. In this case, it was the municipality of Lidingö. After two years, they had chosen to terminate the contracts with the municipality-placed new arrivals and assign them to housing queues and social services. The former Minister for Housing, Peter Eriksson, was then worded as follows: There is no establishment period called two years. ..................................................... Of course, the Government should make statements in the public debate, but care must be taken to ensure that statements are factual and correct and do not interfere in individual cases and that they do not prejudge ongoing legal proceedings. In this case, the case in Lidingö Municipality had been appealed to administrative law and subsequently to the Administrative Court of Appeal. In both cases, Lidingö Municipality was right in what they did. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs would like to emphasise that, even if we are going to be able to take part in the public debate, we must nevertheless bear in mind that we must not approach legal proceedings in our statements.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-394	Mr President, I would like to In this round of debates, which deals with the performance of the duties of the Minister of State, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs deals with issues that are constantly recurring, namely the issues of the statements of the Minister of State. Mrs Sydow Mia mentioned this in the initial debate, as several colleagues have done here in that round, but I would like to highlight the KU's practice in this context. The KU has previously stated that the Minister, like all other citizens, has the right to make statements in different contexts, but that the Minister may need to take special consideration. One obvious starting point is that the statements are correct. The KU points out that it does not exclude the expression of acute and polemical words by ministers in debates and in other political contexts. I do not intend to discuss the statements now except on a couple of points. First of all, I note that the then Minister of Culture and Democracy, with regard to the responsibility of the Political Authority regarding the follow-up to the action plan for the defence of the free word, made statements which were not correct. Secondly, the KU has examined the statements made by the Minister of Housing at the time concerning the municipality of Lidingö. In this case, the Minister of Housing chose to visit tenants who had been dismissed by the municipality of Lidingö. The municipality had chosen to terminate all housing contracts for new arrivals in connection with the end of the start-up period. You can have views on the municipality's decisions and how it contributes to the integration of new arrivals. In any case, it was the then Minister of Housing. The municipality's decision was appealed to the Administrative Court in Stockholm, as the Minister of Housing at the time knew. The KU has nothing to recall, but I personally want to problematise that a minister in a situation where a controversial issue is appealed to a court of law chooses to form an opinion in that particular municipality. It's a tad strong. It is powerful in itself, and it is provocative from the point of view of municipal self-government. Let us hope that, in the future, the Minister remains too good to speak politically in such a context. As Per Söderlund said in the initial debate, matters may from the outset seem extensive and tricky, but on closer examination the question marks straighten out. The corresponding course is also normal. One such review is of the then Minister of Culture and Democracy's handling of film support. The KU has not found any shortcomings which can be attributed to the Minister of Culture and Democracy at the time. On the other hand, KU's review has raised questions about the governance of the Film Institute and its mission regarding the distribution of film support. It is important to clarify any uncertainties regarding the formal handling of film subsidies. Both the Swedish National Audit Office and Statskontoret have looked at, among other things, the private legal formation that regulates the activities of the Film Institute. Yet no one has come to grips with the issue of today's appropriations and the regulation of the conditions under which Filminstute can decide on the distribution of film subsidies. It is important that the Government reviews the matter and, if necessary, returns to the Riksdag.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-400	Mr President, I would like to This chapter deals with various statements made by ministers and when they become more or less good, their responsibilities and their freedom. I would like to highlight two of the dossiers in brief. One is about Alice Bah Kuhnke when she makes a statement in connection with an abandoned police investigation. She states that it is part of the police's mission to contact all the country's publishers. The KU notes briefly that there is no such assignment. The statement is not correct. That's how we end it. Another statement was made by the Foreign Minister at a conference when she said that she could not forgive Britain for Brexit. It's a bit strong for a foreign minister to say so publicly. That statement was reported by a Christian Democrat, and it fell into my lap. How was this to be considered? I agree with the committee on the assessment here as I am otherwise, namely that the key point was that the Foreign Minister said this at the hearing: It simply means that we will be reminded of it. That's what I described. So she nuanced her statement. But then she said, "I said, with a smile, And that's what I'm proposing her for myself. The KU says that there are specific demands for statements in foreign policy, and the committee would like to point out in general terms the importance of the foreign minister's statements being worded in such a way that they do not lead to misunderstandings or give rise to conflicting interpretations. It can be concluded that the statements in this particular case did not have such consequences, as far as is apparent from the examination. The committee assumes that what the committee said earlier in its reviews of e.g. performance statements are taken into account by ministers in their continued work. .....................................................
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-405	Mr President, I would like to I will say a few brief words about the G18, although I do not have much more to add than has already been said by the previous speaker. At a conference on Finnish and Nordic foreign and security policy in January 2019, the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke about how she looked at Brexit. Among other things, she said, "I can't forgive them for this. There has been a discussion about who are they referring to. The next day, the Foreign Minister made it clear that it was not referring to Britain but to the political establishment there. She also said that for a long time there had been poor political leadership in Britain. These statements are, of course, remarkable when seen as detached, not least because the UK is not only an important trading partner for Sweden but also an ally in the EU. These are comments on an internal democratic process in another Member State. This led the KU to investigate what had happened and what had been said and whether it was a formal deficiency. After an exchange of letters with the Government Office and also during the hearing we had with the Foreign Minister, it became clear that the statement would rather be seen as a general concern about Brexit and the consequences it would have for Europe. The KU has stressed in a number of previous reviews the importance of the accuracy of the ministers and their statements, even if they express themselves a little. It can be said, to say the least, that it happened in this case. As far as foreign policy is concerned, it is particularly important to exercise caution because foreign policy is very much shaped by statements. The statements must therefore not lead to misunderstandings or conflicting interpretations. Having now examined the matter, the KU notes that the statements in this particular case have had no consequences for Swedish foreign policy and have not involved any new Swedish foreign policy. We have therefore added the matter to the file.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-411	Mr President, I would like to My four minutes will hardly be spent, as my colleagues have so exemplaryly explained the dossiers in this section of the report. I can say that the KU believes that our politicians, ministers and ministers are and should be people with feelings and commitment and that they should be allowed to speak as long as they stick to the objective requirement and do not restrict the courts and authorities in their exercise of power.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-413	Mr President, I would like to This is another report in which the Constitutional Committee is in complete agreement. However, although we are united and there is no political conflict about the report, it is important in principle. The report, which is usually referred to as letter 75, deals with an annual report sent by the Government to the Riksdag on the extent to which and how Parliament's decisions have been met. What is particularly interesting is what is usually called announcements, i.e. an order from the Riksdag to the Government where the Riksdag instructs the Government to deal with or resolve a matter of substance in a certain way. The starting point must be for the Government to satisfy what the Riksdag requests the Government to resolve. This is not always possible because there can sometimes be practical complications. Not least, one can disagree about what the Riksdag has really ordered from the government. It is therefore necessary to distinguish between the fact that a case is closed, that is, that the government has dealt with it, and that it is actually satisfied. We have such an issue in the report where there may be some differences of opinion on the issue, and it is linked to the Lottery Inspectorate. The Alliance, i.e. the Moderates, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Center Party, voted earlier with the support of the Swedish Democrats that there would be demands for it to be made clear to those who buy lottery tickets if the lottery gives money to political activities. The government considers that this issue has been addressed, on the basis that the Swedish Lottery Inspectorate can actually make such demands and in part makes such a test of different types of lottery activities. We on the part of the Moderates cannot object to the conclusion of this. However, even if there is another issue that does not concern the report, we believe that, in substance, if you buy a lot where the money goes to political activity, this should appear on the ticket at the time of purchase, just as it is clearly stated on cigarette packets that smoking can lead to cancer. Similarly, when buying lottery tickets, it must be stated that any lottery activity gives money to a political party. It is primarily the responsibility of the Committee on Culture to deal with this further, but in the procedural and formal sense, the announcement made earlier by the Parliament may be deemed to have been finalised. We will have to come back to the substance of the matter.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-419	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Parliament has previously announced that it is reasonable for lottery buyers to have clear information about a lottery organised to finance party political activities. It is appropriate to say a few words about this in the context of the letter. The government reported the announcement as finalised in the bill A reregulated gaming market. It was argued that the Lottery Inspectorate already imposes such requirements in its licensing decisions on lotteries, not only in relation to party political activities but also in relation to public service activities at all. However, if this is the case in practice, it remains to be seen. We note that we are several parties in this House who believe that it should be explicitly stated on each individual lottery whether the sales of the lottery are directly or indirectly supporting your party political activities. If this is not fully implemented, we can be sure that we will come back to the issue in order to obtain a clarification on this.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-422	Mr President, I would like to I have to admit, we forgot one important thing. We had planned to buy a summer present, namely lottery tickets, which say on the back that revenue goes to party political activities. It could have been good source research for those who run this issue, but maybe it's more fun with political pie throwing than finding out the facts– I don't know. I am also one of those who do not think that party political activity is comparable to smoking, that is, I do not think it is harmful.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-424	Mr President, I would like to We will now deal with the penultimate matter on the KU's day of debate in this House. We have concentrated our debate on matters to this day. However, this is not part of the review report, but is a motion report called the KU27 Freedoms and Rights, etc. The committee has dealt with a number of motions and requests for exercise from the general exercise period. Indeed, the claims concern a wide range of questions. It concerns discrimination, the prevention of violent extremism, citizenship, property rights and freedom to conduct a business. I would like to highlight what is about freedom and rights, but also how we moderates view the constitutions. I would first like to say that we Moderates are, of course, behind the agreement we had in the previous Fundamental Law investigation. However, it has now been quite a long time since that investigation was set up, and we think that there is reason to consider again a series of reinforcements of constitutional protection, both in terms of individual rights vis-à-vis the state and in order to build the Swedish rule of law and democracy stronger. We Moderates would therefore like to see a new constitutional investigation set up, including proposals for strengthening the independence of the courts, how to strengthen the position of the Law Council and judicial review, and how constitutional changes can be made more difficult. We are now seeing around us, even in European and EU countries, that not least the independence of the courts is being challenged. We do not see that threat in Sweden today, but in order for Sweden to be better equipped in the future for the risk that this entails, we believe that there is reason to look at whether there are proposals – and it does – that can increase the independence of the courts. We also believe that there is a need to strengthen the protection of human rights and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution. We believe that it is justified to continue gradually developing the form of government. We cannot see that there is any reason why the fundamental human rights and freedoms enshrined in our own constitution should play a less practical role and thus have a lower status than the corresponding rights in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. We also have proposals to review the prohibition of discrimination in this context. There is therefore a difference between the form of government and the law of discrimination in terms of how discrimination is expressed – how it cannot be done, on what grounds and how it is expressed. With regard to constitutional issues, we also have, I am pleased to say, an announcement to the government that a parliamentary committee should be set up with the task of reviewing and strengthening constitutional property protection. It is an important fundamental element of free society that ownership is respected, and this must also apply to traders, forest owners and green industries, to take some examples. We have a number of different reservations in a variety of areas, but, Mr President, for time-winning, we are only calling for reservation 1.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-432	Mr President, I would like to If I were to miss it at the end of my speech, I would like to say right now that I wish you a good vacation in the coming months. I would also like to extend warm thanks to my colleagues in the committee and to the fantastic office we support! So we in the Constitutional Committee have also dealt with a number of motions, more than 20. One of those motions has actually been approved, which is quite unusual in our system, as you know. It happens to be a motion with which we had some difficulties, so there will be a reservation on that point. I would like to emphasise that the fact that only one motion has been approved does not mean that the exercise is superfluous. On the contrary, many of these movements reflect concerns and a sense of priority as well as a willingness to move forward with regard to the agreements we have on human rights. I am convinced that the Government Office is also looking at the motions that have not been approved by us here. In fact, I would like to recommend the forces that fortunately exist in society, the various organisations that work for human rights, to look at the document that is the result of our work on human rights and freedoms. There is, in fact, a lot of good background information and a connection to various charters, including, of course, the form of government, of which it is important for those who work with human rights to be aware. It is therefore a valuable document. I am also saying this because I believe that there are some movements in this year's harvest that actually reflect a certain Islamophobic tendency, which I had hoped would not be there. Otherwise, however, I think that the motions are really worth taking very seriously and discussing even if they have been rejected. I would like to mention a few things in general. The first is that this year we can celebrate that it has been just 40 years since the Riksdag decided that children should not be abused – the war ban. This was seen internationally as very far-reaching and perhaps a little subversive. Now we have a situation in which the idea of protecting children from abuse of various kinds, including in their own homes, is reflected in legislation reminiscent of spring in a majority of European states and also in several other countries. This has been important. In terms of international influence, our Ombudsman system has also been important. Our old Ombudsman system has now been copied in country after country. In all the countries of Europe, there are now ombudsmen's institutions which are watching to see that human rights are respected. We are also aware that our work on women's rights has been spread and has become an inspiration for various new initiatives to protect women from abuse and to give them the opportunity to participate actively in, for example, politics. We have played an important role there. We have also been active in trying to strengthen international human rights standards, year after year. This has meant that we have also taken on a certain responsibility to listen to the critical views against Sweden that come, for example when representatives and rapporteurs from different organisations come here to look at how we carry out the work on human rights. We have been criticised, for example, as regards the rights of the Sami people. Internationally, there is a view, which in my view is well founded, that we have not gone far enough on this point. So here we have some things to be humble in our own eyes. It is not only a question of giving something to the international community, but also of having a lot to learn from experience in other countries. This was more general. I would also like to say something about the movements that we have looked at a little more closely. A motion that we have reacted quite strongly to includes proposals to withdraw the nationality of persons who are already nationals but who have a foreign background and have committed some form of criminal act. We believe that we should be extremely careful when it comes to withdrawing the citizenship of someone who is already a citizen. If we look at the form of government, we see that it is very clear on this point. It does not accept that one who has citizenship should be deprived of this privilege. It is also clear that you cannot refuse a person who is a citizen to come to our country, and as long as you are a citizen you cannot be exiled from our country. There is really only one reason to question citizenship, and that is when the very decision that you are a citizen has come about on an illegal basis. It may have been a matter of bribery or false, improper information. It is then possible to look at this, but otherwise it must be stated that citizenship is not a test. Citizenship that exists should be protected, and the problems that arise with this will be solved, as with all other Swedish citizens. That is our position on this issue. Then there is this about property rights. Ownership is defended in the form of government. It is very important to stick to this. Of course, no one wants to reverse it in any way. In the form of government, it is stated that no one can be forced to renounce their property or to suffer restrictions on the use of land or housing unless it is necessary to meet urgent public interests. The right to full compensation is also guaranteed in the form of government. We believe that this is important. We believe that the issue should actually be discussed on the basis that there is a need to look at the various interests that may be involved in property rights. There is a need for a fair balance and a sensible decision-making process when interests are against each other, such as property rights on the one hand and beach protection, right of public access and protection of animals, plants and ecosystems on the other. To only strengthen constitutional property rights at the moment we did not find an ideal solution, especially since some work is now under way in the Government Office to improve the conditions for financial compensation in this case. We will therefore reserve ourselves on this point, as I mentioned earlier. A small addition: the question of ownership can in fact be seen as an aspect of economic and social rights. This is interesting, because there is a debate in our country that economic and social rights should not really be seen as rights. Everyone has the right, of course, to have their own definition of what is human rights, but there are international agreements that Sweden has so far supported that the concept of human rights also includes economic and social rights. The important treaties that we are now supporting, such as the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities or the important Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, are based on respect for economic and social rights as well. We believe that starting to tear this up would be most unfortunate. I hope that, regardless of our other party political positions, we can agree that the definitions of human rights which we have at international level and which we have supported so far should not begin to loosen. Right now there is actually a conversation in Templum, where one of the Swedish honorable organisations working for human rights will present economic and social rights with a focus on Sami rights and rights for people with disabilities. I request the approval of reservation 17.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-452	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to take this opportunity to wish my colleagues on the Constitutional Committee a pleasant summer and also to thank the Office for its wonderful work in the past. Mr President, I would like to The largest segregation in Sweden is the cultural. It cannot be ignored that many people have come to Sweden from other countries who appreciate our welfare and our strong social safety net. It is people who appreciate our nature but who may not always share Swedish values about equality or the freedom of the individual. In cultural segregation, extremism has flourished, and with it there have been new demands for special treatment. Instead of clear guidelines on what should be tolerated, most things have been accepted in the name of multiculturalism. This policy has now come to an end. Instead of encouraging people to get involved in ethnic exclusion, often with stronger standards of honor and an orthodox view of religion than in their home country, they would have encouraged assimilation and thus inclusion in the Swedish majority society. We would have made it clear to them from the outset: Sweden is a secular country where freedom of religion prevails. What a higher power you worship is your private business. Religion should not be involved in public affairs. In addition, we strive for gender equality in Sweden. Those who choose to move to Sweden must accept this. Terrorism and extremism are fundamentally ideologically motivated. There is a need for a regulatory framework that at an early stage detects and counteracts the emergence of the extreme fringes of politics or religion. Too often it is noted that non-profit associations or religious communities invite preachers who spread anti-Semitic or anti-democratic messages or glorify Islamist extremism. The Swedish state should never finance the emergence of or facilitate and promote violent extremism and anti-democratic values. As far as the general administration of justice is concerned, people lie or bribe officials in order to obtain a residence permit and later citizenship in Sweden. Other individuals may have behaved well at first and gained citizenship but then began to engage in crime. Furthermore, it is unfortunate that individuals go to participate in foreign forces in a way that is contrary to international law, international law and Sweden's interests. We find this totally unacceptable behaviour. Citizenship should not exist to protect such people. We Swedish democrats have for a long time been pursuing a policy that aims to create a better assimilation through clarity about what applies in Sweden – much the same as in the rest of the world, that is, what is normal when you move to a new country. You adapt and follow the laws and regulations of the country. Mr President, I would like to In several of our motions to Parliament, which are addressed in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs' report on Freedoms and Rights, etc. We have been exercising to stop the legitimisation and adaptation of public society to Islamist ideology. We want a stronger regulatory framework and stronger supervision of contributions to non-profit associations and religious communities. For a long time now, the Swedish state has been funding Islamist associations, most with strong links to the Muslim Brotherhood. The risk of recognising organisations linked to the Muslim Brotherhood as the most important representatives of Muslims in Sweden is that a minority of politically oriented and missionary activists are given the opportunity to advance their positions in public at the expense of the majority of those with a Muslim cultural background. This helps to create political and social polarisation by putting a premeditated Muslim against a pretense, i.e. non-Muslims. It is an identity policy strategy that pits groups against each other and thus has a negative impact on the integration process. We Swedish democrats do not believe that it is reasonable to give state support to religious movements that preach that religious laws trump the laws of the Swedish law book. It is about movements that have contributed to radicalisation and IS recruitment and invited speakers who have spread anti-Semitic, homophobic and anti-democratic messages. We have also exercised to stop foreign financing of mosques. We do not want Islamist states to finance the construction of Wahhabist and Salafist mosques on Swedish soil, as we know that this leads to radicalisation. If a rich Gulf state offers the financing of a mosque, it is always conditional that the imam or imams should begin to follow a more wa h habist or Salafist orientation of Islam. They want to interpret the Qur'an and live as they lived in Muhammed's time. We also have a motion to ban the veiling and veiling of children in preschool. The complete veil, i.e. burka or niqab, as well as veiling little girls is unfortunately a sign of a beginning of radicalisation. Although we have freedom of religion in Sweden, this freedom of religion also means the right to avoid religious decrees. Your freedom of religion ends when it restricts my freedom of religion or my freedom to avoid religious decrees. Burka and niqab are a complete masking where only the eyes are visible and sometimes not even these. In our daily interactions with people shoes, 90 percent of communication with such a full masking process disappears. We live in a society where we must all be able to socialize and interact with each other. Full masking affects even those who do not want anything to do with it. In Sweden, we also let children be children. We don't sexize little girls. The veil is a women's oppressive garment created by men so that their women do not arouse desire in other men. We think it is a completely wrong view to apply to small children. We have also raised a motion for a ban on prayer eutrope. Often prayer eutropes from mosques have been compared with Christian bell rings as a motive for allowing the exclamation of mosques in the name of religious freedom. However, the difference is considerable, as the Christian bell rings are part of our cultural and historical heritage. Our nation is marked by Christianity for historical reasons, and to think away a nearly thousand-year-old historical embossing is not in accordance with reality. Even atheists accept Christian bells, if nothing else as a historical residue. Another crucial difference between the Christian bell call and the Muslim prayer euthrope is that the bell ring is an unarticulated sound signal, while the Muslim prayer euthrope contains a religiously articulated edict in the form of the creed. This creed is intended, not least, to show power and control over an area. But it is also about the inhabitants being Muslims and that Allah is the only god and that Muhammed is his prophet. This difference is crucial in the right of religious freedom to freedom from religious messages in public places. For freedom of religion does not mean that you have the right to do anything. Freedom of religion also means freedom from coercion, freedom from religious expression, and religious propaganda in the public sphere. Mr President, I would like to In the case of participation in terrorist travel and improperly acquired or manifestly used citizenship, citizenship shall be capable of being withdrawn even if it means that the person concerned becomes stateless. As previous speakers mentioned, this is not happening today according to the form of government. However, international conventions allow the withdrawal of citizenship in two cases. One case is when citizenship has been wrongly granted. For example, bribery, threats or false information, such as false identity, may be involved. The second case is when a citizen joined the service of another State or committed serious crimes against the State. In the latter case, nationality may not be withdrawn if it may lead to statelessness, under international conventions. If we had made it clear from the outset that all migration is subject to certain conditions, we would have had much easier to deal with the challenges that must now inevitably be resolved. Man is adaptable, and conditions for migration to another country are normal in our world. It is in Sweden that an abnormal and bizarre way of managing migration has developed for the rest of the world. The consequences of this failed integration have made Sweden a deterrent example of how not to do so. It is high time to change this now. For the rest, we have also stood up for the reservation on ownership. Today, county boards can classify forest owners' land as key biotopes if they find any specific species or such. The problem is that there are quite a few areas and that there are large areas. And the owners of these lands will not receive any compensation until they have classified it as a conservation area. They're in limbo until then. The forests have been inherited for generations in these families. It's a pretty brutal violation of property rights. That is why we have chosen to support the reservation. Otherwise, I would like to endorse Amendment No 13. We are, of course, in favour of all our other reservations, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 13.
i-R43MuVBEAytaQNn3bhRPct	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for reservation 4 under paragraph 3 and reservation 20 under paragraph 17. Let me start with the argument for reservation 4, human rights in Europe. The fight for human rights, democracy and the rule of law has been going on for centuries. It's still going on today. When Sweden celebrates 100 years of the breakthrough of democracy through the introduction of universal and equal suffrage, we realise that democracy still needs to be defended today. Human rights need to be developed in Sweden, and human rights need to be defended in Europe. In Sweden we recently received an investigation, a departmental spromemoria, about a possible human rights institute. It will be interesting to follow how the government will handle that investigation. Not least in the area of Sami rights, we are now seeing a rather dynamic development of the law. We know that the Nordic Sami Convention is under way. We know that there will soon be a legislative referral on the consultation regime. And there are other proposals in this area. It will be interesting to see how that policy will develop. Then let me go back to reservation 20, which deals with support for the remembrance of the Holocaust. Mr President, I would like to The Jewish minority in Sweden is under very strong pressure. The Jewish people in Sweden are subjected to hatred, threats, harassment and persecution. This weekend, more specifically on Friday, so-called tripstones were inaugurated here in Stockholm. These have been inaugurated earlier throughout Europe, and they are now in our capital. The purpose of these stones – these are small paving stones with brass tiles on top – is to call for reflection. The purpose is to remind of the people who perished in the Holocaust and to honor them. We knew the Holocaust was taking place, but we chose to turn our eyes away. As long as we have Holocaust-deniers in our country and as long as we as a country are unable to protect the Jewish minority and the religious freedom of Jews, the Center Party believes that society needs to provide support to non-profit organisations that, among other things, organise remembrance trips to the sites of the Holocaust. Madam President, I would like Finally, let me touch on the announcement of property rights and the freedom to conduct a business. Shifting political winds have challenged constitutional property rights in the near future. Attempts to prune property rights have been made. I therefore hope that, as in committee, there will be a majority in this House for this announcement. Although this is how Thomas Hammarberg pointed out – that these interventions should be fully replaced – it is not easy in practice for those affected by property rights violations. Let us take a different example from those contained in the report. Let us take the coastal fishermen in the Haparanda archipelago, who are constantly subject to restrictions on fishing. The latest is a provision from the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management that they are not allowed to catch fin-cut salmon. These interventions are to be replaced by the Constitution, but it is based on the ability of those who are subjected to them to pursue legal proceedings. Running legal proceedings against the state is costly. It takes a lot of resources. That is why, unfortunately, I cannot say today that the freedom of trade in our country is undistorted. That's why we need this investigation. I hope that we will gain parliamentary support in order to review how we can further strengthen the protection of property rights in the Constitution.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-482	Madam President, I would like Of course, the Left Party supports all our reservations, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 3. Our fundamental rights and freedoms are protected by the form of government. It states, among other things, that public power should be exercised with respect for the equal value of all people and for the freedom and dignity of the individual. These rights must never be taken for granted, but must be defended every day. We see how fundamental democratic principles and the rule of law are threatened around Sweden, Europe and the world. In several EU countries there is widespread discrimination against LGBT people and in many countries the situation is getting worse. There are also restrictions on free speech. We know this, and we talk about it a lot and often. But as for people belonging to the LGBTQ and transgender group, things are getting worse and worse in a lot of places. It is clear that EU membership is not a guarantee that people will avoid discrimination. It is also clear that many countries are deteriorating their regulatory frameworks and are increasingly discriminating after joining the EU. It should have consequences when Member States choose to restrict their citizens' rights. When Member States fail to comply with human rights, they must be able to act and take action against them. A human right is to be who one desires. Today, not everyone gets it. Sweden is still a country where the price is high for those who challenge norms about gender and gender identity. To be able to express one's gender identity on one's own terms is to be regarded as a fundamental human right. It is a right which, despite this, is not respected in Sweden. Today, the process of changing legal sex is complicated with long waiting times, unreasonable demands and sometimes lack of response that creates ill health. Countries such as Argentina and Malta have abolished all legal sex requirements. The Left Party wants to go the same way. We believe that each individual should be allowed to determine their own legal sex. A modern gender law needs to be based on reality. For many, gender is self-evident, but for others the division between men and women is less obvious. It is therefore important that there is the possibility of choosing a third legal sex. In addition, recognising a third sex in legislation would mean moving away from the current two-sex model and widening our performances. If we are not so firm in our notions of what is typically male and female, we create the conditions for greater variation in how we express ourselves in our gender roles, while in the long term it can change negative attitudes and reduce prejudice against transgender, intersex and other people who are today seen as normbreakers. This, in turn, would reduce discrimination and violence against these groups. A fundamental principle is that in that case the third option should be an option for those people who themselves want it, not something that individuals are assigned. Another important principle is that the continued need for gender-disaggregated statistics should be taken into account. A third legal sex shall be disconnected from any medical process. A legal change of gender shall not require medical intervention. Changing the sex should be a quick and easy process.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-494	Madam President, I would like In report 2018/ 19:KU27 Freedoms and Rights, etc. there are a number of suggestions that have come in the way of exercise. It is handled as the KU deals with everything that has to do with the Constitution: where we can go forward in broad agreement, we go forward in broad agreement. Otherwise there will be reservations, and that will be seen as good ideas for proposals. The Christian Democrats also have one or two proposals that we want to put on the agenda. One such proposal is to set up, like Norway, a value commission, a broad-based group in which the various representatives of society who are relevant in this respect discuss valuation issues. The importance of trust cannot be overestimated for a people-friendly and democratic society. Every dialogue and every discussion becomes meaningless unless there is a common ethical minimum for those discussing. Such a value base would be of value not least to those who come from another value system, to help hold Sweden together. This was done in Norway some years ago, and this could be done in Sweden. This is reservation 9. Reservation 24 deals with the prevention of violent extremism and radicalisation, in which the Christian Democrats highlight a number of proposals which, in the light of what is already happening, could be made much more. More offensive and concrete work must be done in municipalities to prevent people from joining terrorist cells or becoming, for example, IS warriors, or the equivalent that exists now that the caliphate has fallen. Municipalities must have concrete strategies for strengthening tolerance, non-discrimination, fundamental rights and dialogue. Finally, there is reservation 14, to which I request approval. It is a question of withdrawing citizenship. There the Christian Democrats are so sparse that we say that only when it is obvious that a person has acquired Swedish citizenship through bribery or bribery should it be possible by means of a constitutional amendment to the Constitution for a court to withdraw citizenship. In this case, the burden of responsibility lies with the authority. Earlier, Thomas Hammarberg from the Social Democrats said that we must stand up in order not to change and deprive people of citizenship and thus make them stateless. That is, of course, the basis on which we stand together, and that is what the law looks like today. But then there are the cases where it is obvious that this is about fraud. Then the Christian Democrats believe that in this particular case one should be able to try it. If I understood Thomas Hammarberg correctly, the door was not completely closed, even if he did not agree to the reservation. But I do, Madam President.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-501	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to stress that I support all the Liberals' reservations in the report, but for the time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 6 under paragraph 3. Madam President, I would like In this report we have an announcement of a very important principle. It is, as several of the previous speakers have said, that society must further protect property rights and protect the property of the individual. Sweden is on a sloping plane where the infringement of property rights is actually becoming more frequent and clearer. Many reasons, of course, are heartwarming when you look at them in general, but if you look at them individually and in part, it is extremely worrying. In the committee's view, there is a need for a balanced regulatory framework that protects individual property rights and property rights. The government should initiate a parliamentary committee to review and strengthen constitutional property protection. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight my specific opinion in this report. It is about another very important right and right, namely freedom of religion. It is an inviolable right and right and an inalienable part of a free society. The public must consistently work against all forms of hate crimes against religious practice in whatever way they may occur and against all kinds of attacks on places of worship and other places of religious activity. Not least the Jewish minority is particularly vulnerable and needs special protection. Even a number of mosques have been subjected to very severe attacks. Here too, protection needs to be strengthened. There is also christhophobic hate crime as well as hate crimes against other religious groups. The special state budget for security support for religious communities is of great importance in order to facilitate the security work of the religious communities themselves. But it is also of the utmost importance that the intelligence and investigation activities of the Political Authority regarding hate crimes against the religions function effectively and are strengthened. Since these issues are partly dealt with in the budgetary process and the associated governance of the authorities, I have chosen not to reserve myself in this connection for the benefit of the motion but instead to draw the House's attention to the particular opinion. Madam President, I would like Respecting the European Convention is a fundamental requirement for membership of the European Union. The new European External Action Service is working every day around the world to strengthen human rights in particular. At the same time, the EU is worse at monitoring and guaranteeing the development of human rights in those countries that are already members. The EU is a key player in lifting states to the rule of law. However, EU membership alone is not a guarantee that fundamental rights and freedoms are always respected. The EU currently lacks effective tools to counter human rights violations by its Member States. Sweden must therefore push for the urgent creation of a human rights mechanism – a human rights mechanism – within the EU that has clear implications for those Member States that do not guarantee these rights or who themselves commit violations of citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms, as we unfortunately see too many places in our Europe today. Madam President, I would like We also want to give the Commission the opportunity to bring a Member State before the European Court of Justice for violations of the fundamental values listed in Article 2 of the Treaty of Lisbon. The Commission must be able to propose very severe sanctions in the form of, for example, freezing EU aid or using the possibility of withdrawing voting rights in the Council. It should be as obvious that the price should be high in order to violate the fundamental values of the Union as in breach of the Union's economic acquis. It is very strange to distinguish between these two parts. The first step towards the possibility of sanctions that we want to see would be for the Fundamental Rights Agency of the European Union to publish annually a situation assessment of rights and freedoms in each Member State. That would make it very clear what stands out. Such an assessment could, for example, relate to developments in Hungary regarding repressive refugee laws, freedom of the press and the independence of the judiciary – things that are worth bringing to light and highlighting. Madam President, I would like The EU must stand by the values that have founded Europe: democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights, free movement and openness to the outside world. Countries that violate the principles of the rule of law must be able to be the subject of strong EU declarations. However, I would like to support this reservation 6.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-510	Madam President, I would like In this report, S, V and MP have a reservation – reservation 17. Otherwise, of course, we support the proposal by the majority of the committee, which I therefore support. This report deals with important issues of freedom and rights. There, the Green Party has raised several motions, but this report concerns only one. It's about people who don't want to or can't define themselves as either man or woman. We think it is reasonable for people in an inclusive society to be able to define themselves. Several countries have introduced the possibility of choosing a so-called third legal sex. Some speakers before me have also highlighted this issue. We think it is reasonable for Sweden to move in this direction. That is why, in one of our motions, we advocate an investigation into this. The report also deals with a number of motions calling for more bans on human rights today. There is a desire to limit people's freedom in the use of certain clothing and religious expressions. I am pleased that there is a clear majority in the committee that has rejected these motions. The KU also proposes that the Riksdag make an announcement about strengthened property rights. So we in the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Left Party have chosen to reserve ourselves against this. As far as I am concerned, the rejection is based on the fact that constitutional changes should not be left to question and not too often. Ownership is also part of the multiparty agreement that S, MP, L and C have chosen to review. I think we should start with this work before a more comprehensive approach is taken. A certain amount of investigative work is already under way on restrictions of consultation. The Parliament has already made a recent announcement about this and about compensation in the event of restrictions on property rights. As a previous speaker has already pointed out, it is clear from the form of government that restrictions on the right to conduct a business or pursue a profession may be imposed only in order to protect urgent public interests. I believe that this together is a good reason not to support the majority of committees on this particular point. With this, I wish the President, the President's Bureau and other servants here and in the rest of the Parliament a good end to the parliamentary year and a pleasant summer.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-516	Madam President, I would like I choose today to guest-play in the Constitutional Committee – otherwise I am in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture – because property rights are being debated, and ownership is an extremely important part of the green industries. Several speakers have said here today that property rights are constitutionally protected. Yes, it is. Unfortunately, constitutional protection is not strong enough today. Many people in the green industries feel that ownership is being eroded more and more and that they are being restricted in their activities. The announcement to set up a parliamentary committee is a great step along the way. We need all kinds of initiatives to strengthen property rights. I am very aware that work is currently under way within the Government Office to set up a ownership inquiry. But I am absolutely convinced that this ownership inquiry would have been different if it had been appointed by a moderate prime minister. The green industries are some of our most important industries, and they will be the most important part of a transition to an environment- and climate-smart society. That is why we need to limit the restrictions that are currently taking place among the green industries. Madam President, I would like He who sows should also be able to reap. I think that's an important basic bolt. When we say so, we should bear in mind that a hectare of wheat may be sown for a year but that it is about 80 - 100 years when you sow pine. That is why we need long-term conditions for individual ownership. The Forest Board is now taking a new impetus in the key biotop inventory, and we are talking about protecting an additional half a million hectares. So it's a market value of 30 billion we're talking about. Should these forest owners receive compensation from the state? 30 billion is a lot of money. Should we have replacement land that size? There's no such thing. This needs to be investigated. We need to investigate how we're moving forward. In fact, there are announcements about how we should, for example, respond to key biotopes in a legally secure way for forest owners. Of course, I am therefore particularly pleased today when the Constitutional Committee makes this wise decision. I look forward to that committee and I look forward to further work to strengthen the ownership of green industries. We will have to do that.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-524	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that we have full respect for the problems underlying the government's proposals. However, when one chooses to present a proposal that is so controversial and that will entail major changes in the Swedish model's foundation, it should be widely established and well worked out, which the Swedish democrats do not believe is in the sense that one can ask for. Several consultation bodies criticise the lack of transparency in the legislative process. There has also been a sharp criticism of the proposal from researchers, including from the Department of Law at Lund University, where it is considered that the proposal is ill-considered and calls for a deeper impact assessment. Even within LO, unions have gone from being fairly united to heavy unions, such as Buildings and Papers, doubting the proposal. Madam President, I would like The question is why the Social Democrats and the government push the issue of a restricted right to strike further. Of course, it is a question of strengthening the position of the LO trade unions attached to the Social Democratic Party – and, of course, at the expense of those who have chosen to remain outside. Those who are now suffering are the workers, whose ability to really choose who represents them is reduced because the opportunities for politically independent trade unions to establish themselves are greatly hampered. Madam President, I would like Trade unions will still be able to strike in order to negotiate collective agreements. However, the possibility for politically independent trade unions to strike is severely restricted, which is the basis for the whole proposal on the so-called duty to peace. This issue is complex, and one may find it strange that no one but the Swedish Democrats thinks it is problematic when the Social Democrats bring forward legislation that primarily benefits trade unions that are close to the party. Against this background, Madam President, we believe that Parliament should reject the Government's proposal and issue an announcement that the Government should come back with a revised proposal with a much broader base. I therefore support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 1. I would like to conclude by wishing our eminent office staff, in particular, but also the other members of the Committee on Employment, Social Affairs and Citizenship, a pleasant summer.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-530	Madam President, I would like It is both curious and decisive that we should even have to stand here today and debate the Swedish right to strike. But we do so because a Social Democratic-led government has initiated – and forced – a process to unilaterally restrict workers' rights in labour disputes. Now, then, this process has led to the bill that Parliament will vote on tomorrow. This is a strange thing in itself, for many people expected that the Social Democracy – countless scruples and strange compromises in spite of it – would stay away from the law of conflict. But it's even stranger than that. First of all, what kind of problems in society or in the labour market does this law really address? This is hardly well demonstrated in the report. If you sneeze yourself, you come to a conflict in the harbour of Gothenburg. It is a conflict that followed in the wake of the privatisation of the operation of the port. The tender winner APM Terminals had there turned his problems of operating the port effectively against the Port Workers' Union, which organizes the majority of the workers in the port. This also escalated into combat. Funnily enough, the vast majority of lost hours have been due to the employer's lockouts; in 2017 the union struck for eight hours while the work lasted for 371 hours due to lockout from APM Terminals. In addition, the employer took other measures aimed at limiting the union's influence on issues such as health and safety at work. One may think what one wants about the details and tactics and strategy of this conflict, but that the political impulse of a social democratic-led government in such a situation is that this employer must now get extra help in the form of special legislation – that is the next level of strangeness. And yet another little bit more strange because this particular conflict comes to an end within the framework of the current model: a collective agreement, which does not conflict with what APM Terminals has previously had with Transport, and some outstanding issues that need to be dealt with locally while the work continues. But the government has run on anyway – legislative proposals should be pushed forward and the right to strike restricted. Anyone who doesn't know much about the Swedish labour market – and this is now true for quite a lot of people, not least in politics and the media – could of course have the impression that there are a lot of strikes here and there that the legislator needs to look at because they disturb so much in society. But the fact is that Sweden is one of the countries in the industrialized world where there is the least conflict. What about the very specific types of conflict that the proposal is now targeting and which are in the name of the report, that is, conflicts when there is already a collective agreement and in the case of litigation – are they many and growing? At the beginning of 2017, the Government gave a commission to the Mediation Institute to map the incidence of this type of conflict. If you read the Mediation Institute's report, you can see that this is a peripheral phenomenon in the Swedish labour market and that it is also trending. Is it true, then, that this problem has only been discovered now — that no one has thought about this before? Even to that question, the answer is no. With the inclusion of the provisions on strike and peace obligations in the MBL, the co-determination law, it is clear that collective agreements provide a very far-reaching duty to peace and, at the same time, that this duty to peace is based on a free right to take action to promote trade union objectives against a counterpart. Which – note this – stated that a trade union organisation is free to target conflicting measures even against areas of agreement where collective agreements have already been concluded between the employer and another trade union organisation, that is to say explicitly what the present proposal aims to declare unlawful. This has thus been the case, and it has been repeated in several legislative cases since then. It has been assumed that it is being dealt with within the framework of party relations, and that is exactly what has been done. But now we are still standing here with a bill that is unjustified and which places a unilateral burden on the workers' side – in a draft struggle that has long been heavily shifted to the employers' advantage. What, then, are the problems with this bill, in concrete terms? First of all, the draft law lays down certain explicit requirements for a conflict measure to be allowed when the employer has signed a collective agreement. It is about the requirements being aimed at signing collective agreements, that they should have been preceded by negotiations and that they should not be aimed at evading other agreements. This at first glance sounds quite reasonable, but the problem is that the law now provides employers with increased opportunities for abuse of so-called peace-obligation objections. Such objections may serve as a means of, for example, postponing or hindering the use of the right of action and reducing the effectiveness of the combat measures. These objections could also reduce the employer's interest in achieving results at all on substantive issues through negotiations – and thus actually lead to more conflicts. In the port conflict, for example, the employer repeatedly argued that the Port Workers' Union did not want to achieve collective agreements and had not presented negotiable requirements, although the union could openly state the opposite. It is also easy to see that in certain conflict situations it is very important for trade unions to be able to supplement their demands or change their actions if the employer, who has the right to manage and distribute the work, uses this right to take measures that are not presented as conflict measures but which in practice are. For example, it may be a matter of changing schedules or redeploying someone. It would now be possible to refer to legal support in order to make it more difficult for trade unions to take action against this. Secondly, the proposal increases the risk of serious systemic changes in parts of the Swedish labour market in the future. This gives the employer more opportunities to get into contract shopping, i.e. to set different agreements against each other in order to get through the cheapest. It also increases the risk of us seeing so-called yellow trade unions, that is, organisations that actually have close ties to the employers' side rather than being real counterparts in collective bargaining. For example, we have the fundamental conflict at the Figeholm paper mill. ABB took over in 2003 and demanded that it be their agreement with IF Metall, the technology agreement, which was in force, instead of the agreement that previously existed with the Paper Industry Workers' Association, or Papers. Both associates are in LO, so LO was able to establish on its board that it was Papers who should own the agreement. But for this to also be the case in reality, conflict action was required from Papers, with sympathy from the Elektriker League and from Transport. The company, ABB, argued that this measure – already in 2003 – was unlawful. The Labour Court ruled by the law in force in favour of the trade unions. However, with the amendment of the law now on the table, the same measure would very likely have been unlawful, because there was a collective agreement covering the work and because it would then be illegal to demand another agreement that would crowd it out. If such a case goes through in AD, we have a new situation in many workplaces, where employers can say, in connection with changes, that the work is now under another agreement that has already been signed. Then the union is more tied up than it is today. In the case of yellow trade unions, those defending the bill have argued that nothing will change. It is then assumed that employers will act in the same way as they do today despite changes in the law. But the labour market is dynamic. Brand new industries are emerging, and the ingenuity to try to push back the conditions that have been won by the labour movement is great. What happens if a large and powerful employer establishes itself in Sweden and says that they have a great new trade union that they have signed agreements with and that Trade, Property or the Union may not sign agreements? Today it would be quite difficult, or even pointless, for such an employer to act in this way. The established unions are too strong together. They can conflict for their rights and claim that there are agreements that the employer should sign. However, if legal support now emerges that makes conflict action against an innovator of this kind more difficult, the incentives to try such action will also change. This is important! We know, of course, that many of the problems that are already facing workers are due to the fact that employers have pushed forward new interpretations which, from the outset, when the law was passed, were not intended. This was the case, for example, after the so-called Laval conflict, when the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise pushed for restricted conflict law in situations where foreign companies work in Sweden. Another example is the problem of so-called planing, where employers unilaterally reduce the level of employment and thus their salary. It was not something that was expected to happen, but it is a space that employers tried and thus could usurp. Now the government wants to give employers a new gift to try their ingenuity with. Madam President, I would like It will probably be said here, mainly from the Social Democratic side, that these are excesses and miscalculations. But these are analyses that coincide with warnings from heavy labour law experts. Kurt Junesjö, a long-standing expert at LO-TCO Legal Protection, is one of those who have followed Swedish labour law most frequently for decades. He calls the bill the betrayal of the century and points to the very problems I have raised today. In News, we recently heard Mats Glavå, labour law lecturer at the University of Gothenburg, say the same thing: With amended legislation, behaviors change, and this opens up for contract shopping. The same track was Birgitta Nyström, professor at Lund University, inside. These are interventions that can have major systemic consequences, but they are done without particularly impressive impact assessments. The report as a whole, with its annexes, is 16 pages. Ylva Johansson's answer in the section in News was that she makes a different assessment. But it is not that I and others worry that Ylva Johansson will use the law to restrict the right to strike in acute conflict situations in the future. It is the employers' organisations that will be able to do so, but Ylva Johansson and her government give them that opportunity. Madam President, I would like The right to strike is a constitutional, democratic right protected by international conventions. The right to strike is crucial for workers to be able to defend acquired rights and improve them. The relationship between employers and employees – that is, between those who buy and sell their labour – is fundamentally uneven in favour of the employer. The individual worker is dependent on collective action in order to actually assert himself and counteract this structural imbalance. Strike is the ultimate opportunity to realise this and should therefore be protected on strong grounds of principle. The right to strike is a result of the labor movement's long and arduous struggle and today forms an integral part of the Swedish labour market model. If the right to strike is restricted, employers' power will be further strengthened while workers are further weakened. The government's proposal imposes unnecessary and unacceptable restrictions on the right to strike. In the opinion of the Left Party, we should strengthen the position of workers in the labour market and not attack one of the foundations of a free and well-organised working life. My assessment is that the proposal we are discussing today will remain a disgrace on the record of the Socialist Party in relation to the workers' collective. The Left Party rejects the bill in its entirety. I would like to express my support for reservation No 2.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-562	Madam President, I would like The Swedish labour market model is unusual; it is no other country that organises the labour market with as much responsibility for the social partners as we do in Sweden. The Swedish labour market model is also exceptionally successful. We have the highest employment rate ever measured in the European Union. We've had a real wage development in the last 25 years. We have a high degree of accession, and we have very few days lost in conflict on the Swedish labour market. So we are rare in a number of ways, and this is something we should protect. Why are we so successful in the Swedish model? I would say that these are two key words: respect and responsibility. Since the Saltsjöbad Agreement in 1938, the parties have settled the rules of the labour market. The parties show respect for each other and the policies respect the rules of the social partners. This has been important for the freedom of the social partners to regulate labour market conditions themselves. So the second word is responsibility. The social partners have an enormous responsibility. In Sweden we have a more far-reaching right to resort to conflict than in almost all other countries. We have very great opportunities for the social partners to resort to conflict. That is a good thing, and the parties are dealing with this with responsibility. There are very few days lost in conflict, and I think there is a connection with the fact that we have a very strong right to conflict. Politics has not put up very many obstacles to going to conflict. We trust the parties to take responsibility, and so do they. It is this model that we must protect and develop. It is this model that we must protect in order to continue to be unusual, to be exceptionally good and to deliver good results in the labour market. During the previous term of office, I and the government put forward a number of proposals to strengthen the position of employees in the labour market. It was about us tearing up lex Laval. It was about us in the EU getting changes to the Posting of Workers Directive. It was about legislation to protect whistleblowers in the workplace. It was all about legislative proposals to put an end to stacking certainiides on each other. In particular, it was about bringing down unemployment, which is ultimately one of the most important issues for dealing with the balance between employees and employers in the labour market. The proposal we are now debating, described here as far-reaching changes to conflict law, is that we should have a level playing field for everyone in the labour market. Let me first tell you what the bill does not mean. It is without prejudice to the possibility of taking sympathy measures. It does not affect the possibility of political action. It is without prejudice to the possibility of recovery blockades. This does not affect the possibility of starting what is called employer-controlled yellow unions on the Swedish labour market. It does not affect the possibility of so-called contract shopping. This does not affect cases of Figeholm character, which has been an important part of ensuring work on the new legislation. However, this means changes. What, then, are the changes we are proposing? Well, it is that the rules of the game that already apply to all trade unions that are members of a central organisation will now also apply to those organisations that choose to remain outside a central organisation. That's what it's all about. This means that before taking an action against an employer who is already bound by collective agreements, you must have decided on the combat action in democratic order in your own organisation. I think that is quite a reasonable requirement. The second requirement is that one should first have tried to negotiate. If the employer does not want to negotiate, it is of course free to take action, but it should have tried to negotiate. I also think that this is a reasonable requirement. You have to fight for collective agreements. If it is an employer who is already bound by collective agreements, it is a collective agreement of its own that should be fought for. That collective agreement must not have as its object the removal of the existing collective agreement. This is already prohibited by the Labour Court's case law, but we make this clear in the legislation. You can't change your demands. If you meet the demands for which you have fought, you must stop the combat before you can take new action. You cannot change your demands in the meantime, which I think is entirely reasonable. I think these are very reasonable demands, and I find it hard to understand that it is being presented as some sort of far-reaching restriction of the right to strike. There are reasonable rules of play in the labour market. Ali Esbati said here earlier that the social partners solve this with the rules of the labour market. Yes, they do for everyone who is part of the central organisations. The question here is whether the trade unions that choose to remain outside a central organisation should also have the same rules of the game or whether they should have different rules of the game. We got a very clear message from the Swedish Democrats here that they should have different rules of the game, because otherwise they will not make it. I think that's a strange way of reasoning. Of course, employees always have the right to organise themselves in trade unions. And you have to choose whether you want to enter an existing trade union organisation or if you want to start a new trade union organisation. It is freedom of association, an extremely important fundamental freedom. As an employee, you choose how you want to organise yourself and who you want to represent your interests in the workplace and in the labour market. Someone else can never tell you who it's supposed to be. What we have to take a position on in this legislative matter is whether it should be the same game of conflict law for those who choose an organisation that is outside the central organisations and for those who choose an organisation that is part of one of the central organisations. That is what this question is about: should it be equal or different rules of play? Magnus Persson gave a clear answer. He said: There must be different rules of play, or else the organisations that choose to stand outside a central organisation will die. I don't think that's true. I think it is underestimating the power that exists when people choose to join together in a trade union organisation. This bill has been dealt with, just like all other legislative proposals, with an investigation that has been consulted, and we have received comments from the referral bodies. We have taken into account the consultation points, which is the whole point of sending out legislative proposals for consultation. The referrals have improved the legislative proposal. Then we have gone with the bill to the Law Council, which had no comment whatsoever on the legislation. After that, we have gone to the Riksdag with the proposal in a bill, which Members of the Riksdag have the opportunity to re-exercise. The fact that the very starting point of the proposal from the outset was a proposal from the social partners does not affect the legislative nature of the process, but the process has been exactly the same as in all legislative matters and, I believe, is right and reasonable, not least in relation to such important issues. Madam President, I would like As I began by saying, the Swedish labour market model is unique, and it is uniquely good, I would say. We are uniquely strong. One important reason why the Swedish labour market works so well is that we have a far-reaching right of conflict. This right of conflict must be safeguarded, and it does so with the proposal that is now on the table of the Riksdag.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-586	Madam President, I would like Of course, I agree with Ylva Johansson on many of the advantages that were painted here with the Swedish model. One of the main elements is that the legislation remains on a principled level, while a great deal is left to organisations and civil society associations to solve problems based on the concrete situation and on the conditions of power that can be created. This is a step back. It is one way of saying that the law limits certain possibilities that have existed in the past, and that have been assessed for decades should not be regulated. My question is therefore: what has happened since MBL, lex Laval and so on, which makes this government want to go in and restrict the free right to strike, which is, of course, the basis for the value of the duty of peace and should be maintained very strictly? Then the question will also be what Ylva Johansson answers all those people who with a good understanding of labour law points out that it will of course be easier to conduct contract shopping with the new law. I mentioned three people: a professor, a lecturer and one of the most experienced labour law lawyers that Sweden has had in decades, pointing to Figeholmsdomen and a change in behaviour in the future when employers have greater legal, legal rights to act in a different way and not just to lean on practice. What does Ylva Johansson answer them? I'm not the only one asking the question. There's a lot of people out there wondering.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-589	Madam President, I would like This bill protects conflict law and ensures a level playing field for all trade union organisations in the labour market. Ali Esbati himself said here earlier that the parties solve a lot of this themselves, and they do. But the central organisations can only sign agreements and reach agreements for those trade unions who choose to be members of the central organisations. It is quite obvious that this is the way it is. And each organization chooses whether you want to be a member of a central organization or not. What we as legislators have to consider is whether it is good that there are different rules for the trade union that chooses to remain outside a central organisation and for the trade union that chooses to be part of a central organisation. My answer is that I think it is good if there is a level playing field. The second thing we have to consider is the demands that we are now making: that the conflict action should be decided in due order by the organisation, that one should have tried to negotiate and that one should fight for a collective agreement that is not hostile to an existing collective agreement. Is this a restriction of conflict law that justifies Ali Ali's tone, or is it actually what is reasonable rules of the labour market? We also have a proposal in the bill – I forgot to mention it in my speech – which also affects how to act when a case is in court for decision. We are now making it clear that either an issue is resolved with industrial action or it is resolved in the Court of Justice. And we make it clear that they should not be used in parallel, i.e. that combat measures should not be used to put pressure on a case in court. I also think that this is very reasonable ground rules for the protection of conflict law.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-594	Madam President, I would like Sometimes one recognizes the worst part of the Social Democratic rhetoric. Now you're going to protect the law of conflict by restricting it. It's a bit like when you want to protect the welfare systems by cutting them down. I see a lamentable parallel here. If you sign a contract, you are bound by a duty of peace. The point is that there are organisations that are hereby given limited opportunities to fight for their members' rights. They are bound by a duty of peace, although they have not taken part in signing this agreement. As I pointed out, this does not only affect those organisations that are not currently part of the central organisations. As I said, in the Figeholm case both Paper and IF Metal were part of the central organisation LO. Nevertheless, many believe that the case in which ABB considered the conflict to be unlawful, while the Labour Court ruled that it was not, would have a different solution with the bill on which Parliament will vote tomorrow. Ylva Johansson did not want to say anything about this except in her speech, where she said that she judged it differently. But it is not Ylva Johansson who will decide this. It is the Labour Court that will decide it on the basis of the material fact that the law is moving. Employers who test a similar situation will be able to rely on legislation where it is much clearer that a collective agreement should not be legally open to conflict when there is already a collective agreement, any one, which is comprehensive. It will be a serious problem in the future.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-598	Madam President, I would like What Ali Esbati says is not true. It is not the case that a trade union organisation is bound by the obligation of peace simply because there is a collective agreement. We clarify the rules of the game so that you can conflict for your members and your own collective agreement when there is already a collective agreement. It is these rules of the game that we make in this bill, and it is these rules that will apply equally to organisations that are members or not members of a central organisation. It is not true that you are bound by someone else's collective agreement or that it could be any collective agreement, as is clear in the bill. I can assure Ali Esbati that the Figeholmsdom has been very vivid in working on the bill, and I make a different assessment. If you are to stand up for a labour market model that is so strong, so different and as successful as the Swedish one will sometimes have to deal with issues that are not just simple and populist and take responsibility for the overall functioning well. I believe that the proposals we are now making and which the Parliament will hopefully support tomorrow are reasonable rules of procedure and that it is difficult to make the interpretation that Ali Esbati makes.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-601	Madam President, I would like The Moderates agree with the committee that there is a reason to increase the duty of peace and therefore support the bill. I must almost apologise for going up here and interrupting the internal dialogue within the labour movement between Ali Esbati and Ylva Johansson – and soon half of Left Party leadership. This debate is clearly a kind of pseudo-struggle about the labour movement in the wake of the January agreement. Who's going to take the leadership? It is usually said that it takes a Nixon to go to China, and it takes a sosse to restrict the right to strike. But this is one such moment when the principle But if we focus on the issue, we see that the government bill makes sense. It does not contain everything I want, but it is balanced and balanced. Let me remind you, however, of something we have wished for. During the general period of exercise, we put forward a proposal that the possibility of sympathies should be limited by the introduction of the principle of proportionality. A well-functioning labour market requires that the conflict rules are designed in such a way that there is a balance between the parties. It is not difficult to develop a labour market model with zero days of conflict. You just make a party so strong that it always wins. Then there's no value in going into conflict. In the end, of course, it is a matter of balancing two different wills, of ensuring that the conflict days are relatively few and that the conflicts cost more than the possible benefits that conflict brings. We believe that there is reason to draw attention to the fact that even threats of conflict can have a major impact on the labour market, not least when the employer is a small company. Like employment protection, the basic legislation on conflict law has remained unchanged for a long time. We believe that there is reason to consider further changes in this area, although the changes proposed in the proposal are fairly balanced. From a European perspective, the Swedish rules on sympathy measures are particularly permissive. I am pleased with the small step the government has taken, but I cannot refrain from wishing for more. In contrast to other measures of conflict, sympathies can be taken even when the party is bound by collective agreements, and this implies an exception to the overriding principle of the peace effect of a collective agreement. We believe that, from a moral point of view, it is difficult to justify why a party that has nothing to do with the main conflict should be affected. In order to safeguard labour peace and to avoid a conflict between innocent companies and employers, consideration should be given to limiting the possibility of taking sympathies through the introduction of a principle of proportionality. That's what I want. The proposal on the table solves a couple of conflicts that have hit disproportionately against not only companies but also employees and other industries and businesses around Sweden. Here it has been difficult to agree precisely because the current rules are not sufficiently balanced. There is still a form of pseudo-conflict between the Left Party and the Social Democrats. I will not prolong the debate, but it will be interesting to hear the rest of the speeches.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-614	Madam President, I would like Labour law plays an important role in the Swedish labour market. It regulates employment relationships and clarifies areas of activity for both employers and employees. The Christian Democrats are behind the Swedish model, where Swedish collective agreements work together with legislation. Today's debate is about increased peace obligations in workplaces where there are collective agreements and in litigation. We support the change proposed by the government. However, we write in a special opinion that during the general period of exercise last autumn we put forward proposals to introduce changes in the rules on conflict measures and review legislation on measures of sympathy in the labour market. These requests for exercise have already been dealt with in the spring. Since the legislative change that is being discussed today and which we support, further changes in the legislation may prove necessary in the future. Madam President, I would like Sweden has relatively few strikes. Nevertheless, there are different types of conflicts in the labour market, and the cost of these is high. This applies, for example, to the recurring port strike, where we are talking about billions in costs for each strike. The Government therefore appointed a special investigator in 2017 to consider certain changes in the right to take action. The investigator finished his work in June 2018. In parallel, LO, TCO, Saco and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise negotiated in 2018 to find a joint solution. They came in July of the same year with an agreement on changed conflict rules on the Swedish labour market which they handed over to the government. All in all, this has led to the need to find a better solution in several places than at present in the case of the conflict weapon. The government has now put forward a proposal for legislative amendments on increased peace obligations, and we think it is important to support this in today's report. We are amending the legislation on participation in working life so that it is clear which procedural arrangements should apply in the event of conflict with an employer who is bound by a collective agreement. The right of an employee to take or participate in a conflict measure against a collective agreement-linked employer may be exercised only under certain conditions. For example, it must not crowd out the employer's existing collective agreements, as has already been said. It is important to point out that the proposal does not entail an increase in the obligation of peace in relation to employers who do not have a collective agreement for the work in question. The amendment also means that it shall not be permitted for an employer or an employee to take or participate in a combat measure to exert pressure in a legal dispute. The law does not affect the right to take or participate in sympathies, enforcement blockades or political combat measures. In the Swedish model, we want the parties to resolve questions about wages and conditions for the employee in collective agreements. The right to take action is a fundamental part of the Swedish labour market model. It is also a constitutional right that can only be restricted by law or agreement and a right resulting from Sweden's international obligations. Peace obligation is also part of the Swedish model and means that a combat measure taken during the period of validity of a contract is unlawful and can lead to damages or other penalties. This obligation of peace created by the collective agreement is an important driver for employers to sign collective agreements or join an employer's organisation. The threats in the conflict weapon are in some cases used in proportions that are not in parity with the contractual dispute. The Christian Democrats believe that trade unions play an important role and contribute to a stable and secure labour market, but that it is important that action and co-determination take place within a reasonable framework and that the power relations between employers and trade unions are reasonable. With this in mind, I would like to support the proposal contained in the report. As this is my last debate before the summer, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Presidium of Presidents, Parliament staff, all colleagues in the committee and committee staff and wish everyone a pleasant summer eventually.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-631	Madam President, I would like I come from Gothenburg. What defines Gothenburg more than Håkan Hellström, word jokes, football and Bruce Springsteen? Yes, it is the sea, and with it follows the port of Gothenburg. The port of Gothenburg is Scandinavia's largest. Almost 30 per cent of Sweden's foreign trade passes through that port. Each year 800 000 containers are handled there. There's 2,192 containers a day, I can tell you guys who weren't fast in the head. What do these containers contain? It is about both exports and imports. Exports do not unexpectedly represent the basic Swedish industry. You know these goods – they are steel, they are forest products such as paper, pulp and wood products, and they are cars. Imports are made up of clothing, furniture, food and more. The port of Gothenburg has APM Terminals, one of the world's largest port companies. They are the node in port traffic here as well as in many ports around the world. Madam President, I would like The port of Gothenburg has repeatedly been at the centre of attention, not for its size or potential, but for the recurring strikes that paralysed the port and its work. It has had major financial consequences for the companies operating in the port but above all for companies using the Port of Gothenburg as part of their logistics chain. It'll cost you. After 2016 – 2017, a very conflict-filled year in the near future in the port of Gothenburg, it was found that that year became the weakest ever with a decrease of 19 percent for container volumes. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise estimates that the many strikes together cost 4.5 billion. These are undertakings which do not receive their goods as calculated and cannot sell them or process them. The same applies to companies that cannot keep contracts because goods cannot be shipped. Madam President, I would like What is the problem with current legislation? Current legislation imposes a comprehensive obligation on those who are bound by collective agreements. On the other hand, there is no sufficient guarantee of peace when an employer has a collective agreement but is subjected to action by an employee organisation which is not bound by collective agreements. This is what the Port of Gothenburg has been one of the clearest examples of. Madam President, I would like Predictability and reliability are key words. For such a trade-dependent country as Sweden, its largest port must be efficient and reliable. If the owners of the goods that I listed earlier, goods that form a fundamental part of Swedish imports and exports, cannot rely on the port to function without disruption, they will choose other logistics solutions. This can mean logistics solutions that are more time-consuming, more uncertain, more expensive and worse from an environmental and climate perspective. It does not only affect the Port of Gothenburg. This affects local, regional and national businesses. Madam President, I would like It may sound business centered – some would say as a megaphone for the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise – to constantly talk about companies. But let us not forget that every company is not more its employees and that it is the employees who ultimately suffer in the event of financial losses. The Port Four of the Port Workers' Union today has a collective agreement with Sweden's Ports, which means that they are currently subject to the obligation of peace. However, it should be pointed out that the Transport Workers' Association and the Port Workers' Union have different interpretations of the meaning of the agreement that is now established. The bill that is now at the table of the Riksdag is central to rebuilding confidence in the port of Gothenburg with the Swedish business community but also with the shipping companies that come to the port. It is crucial that the events of the past few years in the Port of Gothenburg should not be repeated. Madam President, I would like I will be honest – Liberals would have liked to have gone further on this issue. We believe that a so-called proportionality principle will also be necessary in the future. You have heard it before in this House. What does such a thing mean? A principle of proportionality exists in Norway and Denmark. It aims to further increase predictability in the Swedish labour market. There shall always be a reasonable proportion between the means employed and that which the Party wishes to achieve. Let me be clear: the aim of a principle of proportionality is not to limit one party's influence. It is to give the Labour Court the opportunity to examine whether a conflict measure, carried out by both employers and employees, is disproportionate in relation to the desired outcome. The liberals feel no sorrow for Gothenburg, at least not for a Gothenburg that has a functioning harbour. It can be a hub for Swedish foreign trade and part of thousands of jobs being maintained and expanded, both in Gothenburg and in Sweden as a whole. With this, we would like to call for approval of the Government's proposal. We also want to wish you a happy summer.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-648	Madam President, I would like It was a more clear statement from the Liberals on why this bill exists and why it is supported. It is simply because it is a bit difficult with people who are on strike. To be a little more precise, strike and conflict measures are okay, but not if they are noticed. That's one way to look at it. For me, the right to strike is a crucial opportunity for workers, who otherwise lack many opportunities that the employer has to assert their rights. My question concerns what took up a large part of Maria Nilsson's speech, namely the conflict in Gothenburg. Does Maria Nilsson from the Liberals believe that an employer has a responsibility to try to create a reasonable relationship with an organisation that organizes the majority of those who work in a workplace, such as the Port of Gothenburg, i.e. those who do the job itself? In this connection, I would like to ask how Maria Nilsson and the Liberals feel that the current legislation would have affected the conflict that led to a collective agreement for the Swedish Port Workers' Union. Workers argued that they wanted a collective agreement and wanted to negotiate it, while the employer claimed that this was not the case. In the end, it turned out that it was what the workers said, and they got a collective agreement. How could this new law have affected that conflict?
i-MihqgsUmPUWyqMFtibYAZo	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, Ali Esbati. Am I generally hostile to workers, a bit like that in general? No, I really am not. Do I think the right to strike should exist? Of course! Do I see consequences when one uses the right to strike in a certain way? Absolutely! This is an example of the port of Gothenburg. I will try to answer Mr Ali's questions. I thought the last one was quite counterfactual. So I cannot decide because the question is counterfactual. I'll have to ask Ali Esbati to repeat the question in the next line. I would ask Ali Esbati to repeat the second question as well. I didn't quite get it either. I feel like I'm in the fifth grade. To A, I answer, counterfactual. And on B, I answer: Can you please repeat the question?
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-658	Madam President, I would like I did not mean that Maria Nilsson dislikes workers generally but more when they do something together, such as strikes. I'll try to repeat my questions. How would Maria Nilsson wish that this legislation, if it had already been passed, had affected the conflict in the port of Gothenburg? You have said, however, that it is needed, for example, because the conflict in the port of Gothenburg has occurred. How will that legislation affect possible future conflicts, which are the same, in Gothenburg? What do you think is the point of this legislation? My first question was whether the Liberals and Maria Nilsson believe that employers have a responsibility to try to establish working relationships with an organisation that organizes the majority of workers in a large workplace, such as the Port of Gothenburg. In this case, it is the Swedish Harbour Workers' Association that organizes the majority of the employees in the Port of Gothenburg. They worked to try to do what they thought was best for their members. It is an organisation that has been in and organized port workers in the port of Gothenburg for over 40 years. There have been many conflicts during that time, even greater than those that have been in recent years. However, this has been resolved in the past within the framework of existing legislation. Now, however, comes legislation that will in some way limit those opportunities. How does Maria Nilsson view that limitation?
i-YBAJVcizVS267DiN2wjce7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ali Esbati, for the clarifications. I would like to ask myself again about this type of wording, that is to say, in the case that something could be done. I have met representatives from the Port of Gothenburg and others– I think you can guess who – like the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and so on. For them, this particular bill has been essential. They have pointed out this as a way to tackle the kind of problems that have occurred in the port of Gothenburg. Madam President, I would like I think we can agree that the conflict has actually had consequences for the local business community and for the workers whom Ali Esbati claims to protect first and foremost. That is my answer to that question. Do the Liberals believe that employers have a responsibility as employees' partners to hold talks with those who bring together the largest number of members? That's how I understood the question. That depends on the importance that is attached to the word responsibility and to having a conversation, Madam President. Of course, employers have a responsibility towards all their employees in the workplace. We all know that a minimum level should be maintained and so on. I don't see anything sticking out there. I can imagine where Ali Esbati is going with this issue, because it is about the largest trade union that organises the workers. I believe that talks should be held with everyone.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-669	Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country with very strong trade unions in international comparison but also few days of conflict. We don't strike very often. What is completely dominant and normal in the Swedish labour market are strong parties who negotiate and conclude agreements and who keep those agreements. It's a good order we have. It took the Swedish workers' movement many decades of political and trade union struggles to get there, to be recognized as a counterpart and to achieve the right of conflict that they have today and on which the force rests. Bourgeois parties have always wanted to restrict the law of conflict. It's nothing new. That is not something we hear for the first time here today, but it has always been so. They know that the law of conflict makes employees strong. But perhaps it is something new to hear one bourgeois member after another commend a Social Democratic government for restricting the law of conflict. It's happening today. In this way, I think it is a sad day. This also legitimises the bourgeois world picture, where the trade unions and the law of conflict are always the problem and never the employer or the relationship in the workplace. I think you should be careful not to legitimise such a world view. The labour movement has always defended the right of conflict. It has been done because you know its significance in the long run. It has also done so because it does not want the Riksdag to intervene with the help of legislation and to steer and adjust what can be resolved between strong parties. There's a little strike. Most Swedish employees probably do not strike a single day throughout their working life. However, the law of conflict is important to them every day. Every morning when the nurse or preschool teacher opens preschool, every day when the metal worker rides to the industry that manufactures the trucks or cars and every day that the young guy opens the café and cooks coffee to receive the customers, it is there as a foundation if needed. If our rights are not respected and if we do not get what we deserve, we can ultimately resort to conflict. It is therefore obvious to us in the Left Party not to restrict the law of conflict. The legislation we now have before us is aimed at wage earners unilaterally. It accepts the bourgeois world picture. This legislation is intended to solve a problem that does not exist, that is to say that it is being attacked at Swedish workplaces. We do not have this problem. In fact, there is the background in a specific place, in the container port in Gothenburg. For a long time there have been two competing trade unions: the Port Workers' Union, which is not part of a central organisation, and the Transport Workers' Union, which is a LO association. They've been competing. There has been a battle between these two associations over who is allowed to represent the dock workers in Gothenburg as well as in other ports. Of course, you can have both opinions and sympathies for one or the other covenant, but it is not up to us here to decide. In fact, it is up to port workers to decide who is to represent them. The activities of the port in Gothenburg were privatised. The container port went to APM Terminals. It is a global giant who is known for its hard pinches against trade unions around the world and to press where they could when trade unions have fought. It was the Social Democrats and the bourgeois parties in Gothenburg who privatised the activities of the port. The port workers and the Left Party protested and warned about what it would mean for a well-functioning port operation in Gothenburg. It went badly, just like they said. Soon the amount of goods began to fall. Soon it turned out that the practicer was not as good as they claimed to be. Pretty soon, APM Terminals was in conflict with the trade unions, and not only with the Port Workers' Union. You broke a union. The Union club in the port of Gothenburg was dissolved. They were unable to cope with this aggressive, anti-union employer, which the Social Democrats had allowed through privatisation into the port. One year, the employer accounted for 98 per cent of the conflict days in the port of Gothenburg. Where is the upset about an employer who misuses the lockout weapon? Where is the upset about an employer who wants to crack trade unions in the port of Gothenburg? Apparently, it's only with the Left Party. An investigation was set up as some sort of order from those who wanted to end the Port Workers' Union's conflict in the port. LO had to negotiate under the threat of legislation that went further. They came up with something that they thought reasonably saved the situation, but no one can say that was where the demand came from in the first place. Against the more aggressive party, the employer side, nothing was done at all. The responsibility was placed on employees unilaterally. While the legislation has been on its way to Parliament, the Port Workers' Union has obtained its collective agreement, in fact thanks to the right to strike which a majority in this House wants to restrict. It has solved the conflict, as it usually does in the Swedish labour market. The reasonable thing would have been to withdraw this bill, but now we see that it is still on our table. The trade union that will probably be most affected is the Syndicalists, the SAC. I have never been a member of the Syndicalists, but have always been a member of the LO Association when I have been organized in a trade union. But I do not think it is up to us to intervene in this way against their activities. It is said that this will not affect the major trade union organisations. What do we know about that? What do we know about future rulings in the Labour Court? What do we know about a future labour market with new types of employers? What do we know about future attempts at contract shopping? However, we know that leading labour law lawyers are warning against this very thing, that is to say that we do not know what will happen when we put trade unions against each other. We know that the Labour Court itself, which will judge in these cases, expresses very great doubts about how this new legislation will be interpreted and where it will lead in the future. It is reasonably something that should be taken into account before deciding on it. Why? It is legislation aimed at solving a problem that does not exist. It is legislation that unilaterally targets one party without taking account of the other, against the party that accounts for a minor part of the conflict days in the conflict that it actually applies. Madam President, I would like Real left parties do not restrict the right to strike. It's as simple as that. The Left Party wants this bill rejected. With these words, I would like to thank the President of Parliament and everyone else in Parliament's eminent administration for this year. Thank you! Happy summer!
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-690	Madam President, I would like I probably listened to Jonas Sjöstedt, and I have a question. You said this, Jonas Sjöstedt : The Swedish labour market is regulated by strong parties who negotiate and enter into agreements that regulate the labour market. That is exactly what we are defending with this bill. We are defending collective agreements and that is how we should regulate conditions in the labour market. This means that when you want to challenge an employer who has entered into a collective agreement, you should also fight for a collective agreement. The same strong parties have negotiated a legislative proposal. After processing and after listening to and being impressed by the consultation bodies, the proposal is now submitted to the Riksdag for decision. Of course, we do not have any mischievous strikes in Sweden. But I have a question for Jonas Sjöstedt. He describes how the Port Workers' Association and the Transport Workers' Association in the ports compete for the same members. Such a situation exists in a number of workplaces. Different federations compete for the same members. It is reasonable and good that it can be that way. In addition, at any time a new trade union can be formed, which can also compete for its members. That's the way it should be. I wonder the following: why should the Port Workers' Union and the Transport Workers' Union have the same conflict rules to follow? Why should trade unions that choose to remain outside the central organisations have different rules than those that choose to be part of them? This is particularly true if, as Jonas Sjöstedt began by saying, it is good for strong parties to negotiate and regulate the labour market through collective agreements.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-696	Madam President, I would like There is a logical glitch in the government's argumentation. There is something that makes this not stick together. The very reason why the Port Workers' Union was in conflict was that it wanted a collective agreement. That's why the Port Workers' Union went on strike. They wanted a collective agreement. They wanted the same rights as Transport had in Gothenburg. It is possible to discuss whether it is obtained with this kind of agreement, but that is what it wanted to achieve. The government will then produce legislation that it believes will make the type of conflict more difficult because it wants a collective agreement just like other unions. This doesn't stick together, Ylva Johansson. Actually, it's exactly the opposite. The great irony in all of this is that this legislation is unlikely to even affect this type of conflict, because the Port went on strike to obtain a collective agreement. This doesn't stick together. You were on employers' errands. You must have listened to them. They said: Kväs that little mouthy Harbour Workers' Union in Gothenburg! And then you're there and you're screwing up conflict law like that. I don't think we should do that. I don't think there's a problem to be solved. The problem was actually solved thanks to the law of conflict – thanks to the Port being able to get this collective agreement. I think that's good.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-700	Madam President, I would like This is almost a bit laughable. Jonas Sjöstedt claims that my argument does not stick together. Then he himself says that it is in fact the case that the legislation we are now proposing will in no way restrict the possibilities of the Port Workers' Union and that it will not be noticed. Nevertheless, Jonas Sjöstedt claims that we are taking employers' business and impairing and restricting the right to strike. Something here doesn't stick together. The right of conflict is strong and will continue to be strong. It must be protected against proportionality principles, various attempts to restrict sympathy and other things. But the rules of the game should be the same for all in the labour market. This is long-term important for the labour movement. Anyone who forms a trade union, already has a trade union or chooses to join a trade union should know that it is not we politicians who have set different rules for different trade unions. They must have a level playing field to stick to, and that is what they get with this legislation. It is to protect the freedom of association, collective agreements and Swedish conflict law.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-702	Madam President, I would like A central part of the port conflict was the question of whether Port wanted a collective agreement or not. Finally, we got the answer to that question. They wanted a collective agreement, wrote a collective agreement and got the peace obligation. This is the very basis on which this proposal should be withdrawn. How, after the Labour Court had ruled, neither the Minister nor I know. But we know one thing: with this legislation we are taking a step towards judging more for the employer and less for the employees. This is one-sidedly on the employer's side. Of course, the legislation applies equally to everyone – the same for all trade unions. But what is unique about this legislation is that it is tailored to affect the activities of some trade unions. I don't think we should do that. I think that we have too little rights for employees, that it is too precarious employment and that we have too little power to negotiate good conditions for those we represent. Should one then stand on the side of the bourgeoisie and legitimise their world view? That's what I'm hearing here. The next step is to further restrict conflict law. Their world view has already been confirmed. It is said that this is the problem and stands on the side that accounts for 98% of the days of conflict and that you should actually be falling into disrepute. It is the APM Terminals that has caused this in the port of Gothenburg. They are the big problem. I think there is something a little sad about this. I think it weakens the whole trade union movement when conflict law is impaired, both politically and in substance. When the lawyers and the Labour Court say that the consequences can be potentially large, are unclear and one-sidedly moving in the direction of the employer, I think that one should close one's ears and withdraw the proposal.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-706	Madam President, I would like I thought today in the speaker's chair take the liberty of coming back a little to my union self. Although I have spent a few years in this Parliament, I have spent most of my adult life as a union elected representative, never paid for. I have been at work and at regional level, but I have also concluded central collective agreements at federal level. My trade union experience is, of course, an experience. As a trade unionist, one has to defend the interests of one's members. As a Member of Parliament, one has, of course, to defend overall social interests. But as a trade union, you have a very clear view of what this is all about. I was going to start with something that those who have attended a trade union education in the last quarter of the century know well, namely the trade union promise: we promise and assure that never, under any circumstances, work for lower wages or worse conditions than what we now promise each other. We promise each other this in the deep understanding that if we keep this promise, the employer must meet our requirements. It is when we are going to fulfil this promise, Madam President, that it is so important to understand why the Swedish labour movement has worked out certain principles for how we organise ourselves. Competition, Ali Esbati and Jonas Sjöstedt, is certainly good many times when it comes to gadgets or services offered on the market. But in the labour market competition always has negative consequences, at least for employees. Workers are being pitted against workers. Wages are falling. Working hours are getting longer. The conditions are getting worse. Power between those who buy and sell is unevenly distributed. The employees sell their work. Food on the table and rent must be paid. The trade union mission is to prevent that kind of competition. It's my union experience. That is why we promise each other not to compete with each other for lower wages or conditions. The union rests on this promise. It's a trade union promise. When the sellers come together to regulate the price, they call it a cartel. Under the Competition Act, agreements designed to prevent, restrict or distort competition on the market are prohibited. In most important markets, such as goods and services, cartels are prohibited. But the prohibition of cartels does not apply to the labour market. It is explicitly stated in Chapter 1 of the Competition Act. Section 2 The Act does not apply to agreements between employers and employees concerning remuneration or other conditions of employment. ..................................................... After the First World War, driven by an emerging labour movement, a fundamental international principle of work was formulated: The work is no good. Moreover, the ILO celebrates 100 years this year. Trade union coordination within LO can thus be described as a cartel. I stress once again that I am currently talking about my trade union experience, and I have it in the LO federations. The successful trade union cartels are based on three bases. The first is to split up the market. Trade unionism means deciding which trade unions have organisational and contract law. A union organizes, negotiates and contracts for a particular job. To achieve this, you need to have an organisation plan. The LO federations established this already in 1912. Then it is a question of standing behind the Swedish labour movement or not. As far as this is concerned, there may be various representatives in this House. I realize that. The second is that the price and terms are regulated. Trade unions mean that collective agreements control price developments and that there should be a collective agreement in place for each market. National agreements, Ali Esbati and Jonas Sjöstedt, are crucial to stay together and not – listen! – divide the workers. The third is that supply should be checked. Trade unionism means that the unemployed should not be forced to work for a price that puts wages under downward pressure. There we have unemployment funds, training, labour market measures and the like. If we are to maintain and maintain the Swedish collective agreement model, it requires that the strike weapon be maintained. All of this is basic trade union course 1A, Madam President. I thought it was good as a small background to today's discussion. The agreement that the parties have now made and which forms the basis of the proposals that we are discussing in today's report does not really mean anything new for the established social partners, who have long followed the main agreement and the practice that follows from it. The settlement reflects a trade union action that is responsible. It is a matter of rules of conduct between the parties. In essence, the agreement means four things for trade unions who want to have their own collective agreement with an employer who is already bound by a contract, which is what we are talking about: Battle measures should aim to meet collective agreements, and it should be pre-combattling obligations, a ban on the removal of collective agreements, decisions in due order and a ban on conflict in legal disputes. The Minister for Labour has gone through this carefully on the basis of his role as Minister of State. The possibility for the social partners to take action is a fundamental part of the Swedish labour market model. We Social Democrats think it is important to safeguard this opportunity. A cornerstone is also to safeguard the peace obligation that follows the signing of agreements. We Social Democrats believe that there is a great value in the existence of fundamental conflict rules that apply to all organisations in the labour market. The situation that different rules apply in the same labour market does not facilitate LO's organisation plan, Herr Esbati and Sjöstedt. If you even have different rules at the same workplace, it can only be described as a threat to the Swedish model. Even for an employer, it can create uncertainty if order is not maintained on the Swedish labour market, because they – although they have signed a collective agreement or joined a collective agreement- cannot then assume that there is a working peace. This would threaten a system that has served Swedish employees well and has made the Swedish trade union movement the strongest in the world. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has a different view. That's why they want there to be different rules for different organisations in the Swedish labour market. The Left Party considers competition to be welcome in the labour market. Mr Bali would certainly be able to support this idea, Madam President. He wondered how the debate was. I felt it was important to point out that it was rather Mr Bali who was Mr Sjöstedt and Mr Esbati's partner in this debate. It does not believe that the existing system in the Swedish labour market with strong employee organisations is desirable. It is thought – unclear with any international role model – that work is a commodity and trade unions are companies of any kind. The reformed Swedish Communists, like their comrades in Eastern Europe, have become tocliberals. I read in the motion by the Left Party: a real reason for the proposal should be to try to strengthen the established workers' organisations by reducing the conditions for so-called'society'. independent organisations, such as the Swedish Workers' Central Organisation (SAC) ..................................................... Speaking of constellations in the Chamber, it is exciting to hear that this is exactly the same argument that Magnus Persson, the Swedish Democrats, put forward in his speech. Here we have a constellation that does not want the Swedish labour movement well. It is important to point out that the intention of the proposal is exactly the opposite. It is about creating the same conditions for all the social partners. The Left Party interprets this as wanting other conditions for so-called independent organisations. It is exciting to continue reading in Left Party motion. It can be seen how the text is moving forward: the fact that the action which the proposal aims to codify today is a practice in the labour market is not a sustainable reason for a unilateral restriction by law. This means, Madam President, and cannot be interpreted in any other way than that the Left Party rejects the successful Swedish model. If I continue with the quotes from the motion, it is clear that the principles guiding the assessment may disadvantage independent workers' organisations which are not usually bound by collective agreements. It is wrong, but it is still moving in its liberal dogmatism. I take a final quote from the Left Party motion for clarity: a government proposal disadvantages independent trade unions in a disproportionate way and thus affects workers' right to freely choose trade union membership. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like The Left Party is not part of the Swedish labour movement. It is important to remember to understand this discussion. In this report, the Swedish labour movement is as soon as possible seen as its enemy. But it is not only LO that is being fought against today, but all the major trade union organisations, including TCO and Saco, are failing. It is said that they do not protect the interests of Swedish employees. That is both a serious and a false accusation, Madam President. But it is not only the Left Party that is critical of the trade union organisations. The Swedish Democrats also want to reject the committee's proposal in the report. It is argued that the consultation bodies provide too little support. The report is supported only by LO, TCO, Saco and also the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. One can think about what support it would have liked for the report in that case. The party also believes that intervention in the right to strike should only be considered in broad agreement on a well worked-out bill in essence. Then it says that the government has not been able to demonstrate this. When you listen to the debates and speeches, it is very clear that the Swedish Democrats obviously share the Left Party's sceptical attitude towards the organisations that most of Swedish employees support and have delivered good conditions under what is called the Swedish model. With the observation that the Left Party is out of line not only with the Swedish workers' movement, but with the assessment of the major employers' organisations, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-735	Madam President, I would like It is undeniably true that Patrik Björck's engaging docs fall a little flat when he uses his breast tones to defend, together with the representatives of Swedish bourgeoisie here today, restrictions on the extreme of trade union rights, that is to say, the right of conflict. If Patrik Björck had made an effort to listen to the debate instead of torching himself, he might have brought with him that Hanif Bali, mentioned here, is clearly on his side in the debate and not mine. But perhaps there are petitess in this context. I may find it sad that a social democrat should turn himself in and out to defend such a bad proposal. But it is Patrik Björck's responsibility to think about this for himself. As far as the substance is concerned, the LO's organisation plan and the industrial trade union principle themselves are something that is very good. I explained in my speech – which Patrik Björck also refused to relate to – that it is precisely the concern that it will not matter what LO itself agrees on when there are two agreements that coincide at the same workplace that drive our opposition to change. Even if LO decides, for example in the case of Technology Employers, that it is Paper and not Metal that should have the agreement, it is something that the employer can decide for himself. Then it takes muscle to conflict with this. This is a restriction of your rights. You're beating blue down in the eyes of your LO colleagues, Patrik Björck. It's your problem here.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-739	I would like to remind you that we are speaking through the President.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-740	Madam President, I would like It is exciting that Ali Esbati is addressing the slightly older conflict. There is a closer conflict about collective agreements in Sweden that deal with Swedish ports. Ali Esbati claims that if there is a workplace in an industry where there is a temporary failure in majority relations, the national agreements are not important to assert trade union rights. That's what I tried to do a little bit about to teach Ali Esbati the basic idea of how to organize the Swedish labour market. That's exactly what I'm saying. A union must organise and negotiate an agreement for a particular job. If you have different agreements so that you split up the members of different organisations in the same workplace or in the same industry, it will be with the Swedish trade union movement as it has been with all trade union movements around the world that have tried this principle. This will be done with employees' rights and the strength of employees. Madam President, I would like This is where I think Ali Esbati is approaching what I see – it's a speculation on my part – is the more market-liberal Hanif Bali's position that competition in all areas is beneficial and beneficial. Even between trade unions and workers, competition is a good thing. This is where Ali Esbati consciously or unconsciously subscribes to a dogmatic liberal attitude. It is another thing that we in Sweden obviously have freedom of association and that we naturally join any association we want. It's perfectly clear. But I am talking from a trade union perspective about how best to organise and defend employees' rights. It is not by starting to compete with different trade union majorities in individual workplaces. Such a development would lead to a great deal of error, Madam President.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-744	Madam President, I would like I believe that in many ways we would agree on a trade union strategy if that was what we were discussing. But now it's not. It is a bill submitted to Parliament that we are discussing. Nevertheless, it is moving with Patrik Björck's naivety to believe that a gift to the employer side will be used by this page not to pressure the workers but to somehow protect LO's organizational plan. I don't think so. There is no historical evidence that this would be the case. The Swedish model is based on the fact that we have strong organisations that, by virtue of the members they manage to mobilise and the agreements they manage to sign, protect both the content of the agreements and the forms of agreement in the labour market. This means, of course, that organisations outside the central organisations will find it much more difficult to achieve many of their objectives. And that's all right. However, it is not in order for the Social Democratic government to carry out an agency from employers when they feel that the situation in practice in the labour market is too difficult for them. They were unable to cope, and they no longer wanted to get along with unions organising the majority of workers in the port. Fortunately, neither Patrik Björck nor the Social Democratic Government had to determine the conditions for the dock workers, but they fixed their collective agreement. However, it is distressing to see such a casual attack on what should be a core task, namely to defend the right to strike and defend the right to conflict in a free labour market.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-749	Madam President, I would like I run the risk of repeating myself now. Unfortunately, as the questions are repeated in the same way, the answers are similar. The proposal is about creating a level playing field in the Swedish labour market. The rules of the Swedish labour market will now apply to all parties who are obliged to uphold these principles. Then the only question is whether you think this is good or bad. Obviously, the three trade union organisations have made the assessment that they believe that this supports the Swedish model. That is their absolute view, and they support it. Then I also support it, and I think that the Government's proposal is reasonable and that it strikes a good balance in order to maintain the possibilities for action. It is nothing more than the four principles that the Minister for Employment has gone through more carefully than I did in my speech. I chose instead to point to some strange phenomena in Left criticism. I realise that this is not a place to stand and discuss union strategies, but there are still parts that I find strange criticism. Since the Left Party accuses the Swedish labour movement of implementing a policy that goes against employees' interests, I am obliged to explain to Ali Esbati, Madam President, what is the union strategy behind wanting an agreement at a workplace and why it wants a rich agreement. I want to explain what thought there is behind this and what it is that has built Sweden's employees so strong and their trade unions so uniquely strong. It is precisely this principle, which Ali Esbati simply wants to conjure away. He says: It is a good thing if there is a new trade union that gets a little majority, then one can break rich agreements all the way! We do not want that, and that is why we have legislation that makes this clear.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-755	Madam President, I would like These are the moments at which you find it regrettable that popcorn should not be brought into the Chamber. The internal conflict between the Social Democrats and the Left Party is strange, because the accusation from the Social Democrats is somehow that I and Ali Esbati would agree on this issue. But I'm going to vote on your bill tomorrow, so of course this is going to be a little strange. We should rather take care that there is a broad consensus in the Swedish parliament about keeping populist left parties and extremists outside the Swedish labour market model. This, in turn, is a victory for Swedish democracy and the social model. I and Ali Esbati agree on one thing, namely that we disagree. If you personally, Patrik Björck, with your trade union background have some qualifiers when it comes to dealing with this, there is no reason to associate us. That's not very accurate. With these words, I would just like to emphasise this once again, so that there is no misunderstanding: I and Patrik will vote the same in the vote.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-759	Madam President, I would like I am pleased to hear because I want the report to go through the Swedish Parliament. That's how far I'm in. It will be strange to have a debate with you, Hanif Bali, about another party. But the reason I referred to you was that I think you are more likely to accept a discussion that involves competition in all areas, including work, and that a trade union can be like any company. I think that the kind of argument that comes from the Left Party would more easily strike at a more liberal-minded person. There was nothing else I meant, and I hope that I did not insult Mr Bali.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-762	Madam President, I would like Well, of course, it's a bit of an insult to accuse a moderate of being a left-wing partyist or at least sharing opinions with a left-wing party. But the strange thing about the discussion is that if there were competition between different trade unions, which would be a moderate opinion, we would not vote tomorrow for a proposal which reduces such a moment in the Swedish labour market. I think we can all agree that the model that has existed so far may not have brought about the broadest social problem that exists. But it has been a problem that the right to strike and the right to conflict have been so extensive that it has not only created worse conditions for entrepreneurship but also for the workers. I guess that's what we can agree that we'll solve tomorrow.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-765	Madam President, I would like What we are solving tomorrow is the issue of uniform rules in the Swedish labour market, which is absolutely brilliant.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-766	Madam President, I would like I understand that Patrik Björck is frustrated on a day like this, when we can see that it is centre parties and liberals who dictate social democratic labour market policies. I thank you for your lecture on the basic union that I myself have been through once over 20 years, until I was kicked out of the union because I had too bad values. But don't give a shit about it now. We believe that the proposal is poorly prepared and ill-treated. About 50 percent of the referral bodies don't think it's okay. We have a divided LO; Building and Papers have gone out quite clearly and indicated that they think the Social Democratic Government should withdraw the bill. They didn't think it was necessary. One reason for our position is that we protect non-political trade unions. We believe that the trade unions should be free from politics, and we see that the establishment of non-political trade unions will be difficult if the bill goes through as it stands today. That's why we want you to take it back, look over it and redo it. That is the reason for our follow-up motion, and nothing else.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-770	Madam President, I would like I think I understood that. I also understand that this is the line of the Swedish Democrats. There is a logic in that, although of course I do not share their view for natural reasons. What I found difficult to understand, however, is that the Left Party has joined the same line of thought and line. As I said, I do not find it difficult to understand that the Swedish Democrats have this view, because there I think you have been clear during the journey.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-772	Madam President, I would like Surely it is a good thing that the Left Party agrees with proposals that are good. We are not making a distinction between parties, but any party can support our proposals. I am pleased with this debate, which is the last one before the summer. We've had some hits here, Patrik Björck and I, and it's the first time he hasn't commented on the color of my shirt. I'm really happy about that.
i-f5d7ee6f1783b94b-774	Madam President, I would like No, I won't comment on the checkered shirt. I can't even see from here what colors they are. Of course, it is interesting to see this. If you are going to discuss the views of the Swedish Democrats on this issue, it is ambivalent, if you are going to express yourself mildly. On the one hand, you say that there is a problem, but you do not think there is strong support for solving this problem. When the three trade unions and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise think this is a solution that improves the situation on the Swedish labour market, the Swedish Democrats want stronger support. I respect that you think so, but I think it's a rather tricky entrance. But I understand what the Swedish Democrats think, and I have no other comments on this.
