i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-8	Mr President, I would like to Martina Johansson has asked me what I intend to do to protect the weak party, usually the woman, in settlement situations, when it comes to both faster processes and the possibility of financial support. A starting point for the Swedish government is that women and men should have equal rights and equal responsibility in family, professional and community life. Husbands and cohabiting couples should be given the opportunity to live economically equally, even after a possible separation. It is therefore important that a well-functioning settlement system is in place. Last spring, the government proposed a new law on matrimonial property regimes in international situations. The rules, which entered into force on 1 June this year, aim to facilitate international division of property. The Swedish rules on the division of property are based on the principle of equal treatment, which treats spouses economically and promotes women's and men's equality. Experience shows that this principle of division is the most economically beneficial to women as a group. The division of property usually takes place by consensus, but in the relatively few cases where this is not the case, a share-owner can be appointed. If a spouse does not participate in a division of property, the law provides for several ways of directing action against him or her in order to speed up the procedure. The spouse may be ordered by court to provide information on his or her assets and liabilities. He or she may also be required to confirm, on oath, the information contained in a estate inventory with criminal responsibility. If a spouse fails to attend a meeting to which he or she has been summoned, the absence shall not prevent the division of property from taking place. If a spouse has caused an increase in costs due to negligence or negligence, he or she may decide that he or she will be responsible for a higher proportion of the costs. The compensation guarantee for bailiffs was introduced in 1997 and replaced the previous possibility of obtaining legal aid in the event of division of property. The previous regulation had been criticised for failing to meet the need for assistance in relation to the costs of the bailiffs. In particular, the purpose of the compensation guarantee is to provide support to a spouse who cannot obtain his or her property for refusing to contribute to the division of property and who does not have the money to pay for the division of property. The guarantee shall correspond to the time taken to carry out an initial examination of the assets and decide whether the proceedings should be continued or terminated. On previous occasions, Parliament has considered that there is no reason to change the current rules. At the same time, there is a delay in settlement procedures. I note that there are several legal tools to push the procedure forward. It is of course important that the tools are also used when necessary. I agree with Martina Johansson that it is important that the division of property can be carried out in an effective and legally secure way. The government will continue to follow the issue.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-15	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Morgan Johansson, for your answer! In his reply, Morgan Johansson points to the fact that there is support in the law for a landowner to speed up the proceedings. But the problem is that this does not work in practice. In my vicinity, I have a person who has been in a process of division for seven years and has now settled in the process without getting half in the form of the right of poison. This is a woman who, during these years, has not been able to get a new home because the economy has been locked in the home blocked by her former husband. This has caused her to move around. Such things can happen when a passive party does not cooperate and at the same time blocks the common dwelling. The bailiff has the opportunity and the right to go to court for a periodic penalty payment, but the officer must be impartial and often hesitates to go to court. In addition, this further prolongs the process. Mr President, I would like to In conversations that I have had with the estate manager, the need and desire to get more tools in the toolbox is revealed in order to speed up the processes. For example, banking secrecy could be clarified so that the owner of the division of property can go in and collect bank information that the aggravating party does not give up. The possibility of accession countries could be opened in the event of a review of a settlement process which has been completed. One could look at whether it would really be possible to sub-clip different parts of the process. It would be possible to look at the possibility of sanctioning the owners of the estate without going to court. There are a number of things you could look at. Mr President, I would like to Minister Morgan Johansson admits that even though the legal tools exist, settlement processes are sometimes slow. My question, therefore, is whether we cannot agree to investigate how we can shorten the processes when the parties disagree, rather than simply following the matter.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-20	Mr President, I would like to In the vast majority of the approximately 25 000 divorces we have in Sweden per year, these conflicts and issues are resolved in consultation between the parties. It is very rarely going to a further process. However, in about 5% of cases, i.e. in about 1,000 cases a year, one may appoint a share-owner. Even then, the vast majority of processes take place painlessly in the sense that the process can be continued and the spouses can after all cooperate. However, in a few cases it simply does not work, but one of the parties gets in the way and does not want to be involved. I cannot answer for what happened in the particular case raised by Martina Johansson, but I can see that there are a large number of tools available to an active settler to use in these situations. One example is the order for a fine. You can go to court and ask the husband for a penalty. This is also happening. I collected information that a fine of up to $5,000 has been imposed. In some cases, periodic penalty payments have also been imposed. This means that a spouse who does not participate and does not account for his assets may be required to pay a periodic penalty payment for each month for which this is not done. In the case I refer to, it was 15,000 a month until the husband did what he was supposed to do. This possibility thus exists. There is also the possibility of forcing a husband to take an oath that he or she has accounted for his or her assets. If you turn out to have lied on oath, you can be sentenced for perjury and risk prison for four years. Then a spouse's assets can also be placed under special management. Then it is a good man who simply has to take over the management of the assets available to secure them. Anyone who has messed up in this way and has not done what he or she is obliged to do is always at risk of paying a higher share of the actual cost of the service afterwards. I believe that there is quite a lot of intervention and powerful legal instruments here. However, there is a need for an active estate manager to use the instruments. I am happy to discuss further measures, because I also think it should go faster. But in that case, one should probably focus on ensuring that the owners of the division of property make greater use of the tools that are needed. I would be happy to analyse the issue further with the opposition and the Center to see if there is anything else we could do. But it is first and foremost a question of ensuring that the owners of the settlements make use of the tools that already exist today.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-27	Mr President and Morgan Johansson! It is as we both stated: there are tools, but they need to be reviewed in order for them to work in practice. Many of the points raised by the Minister extend the proceedings. We can then look at what economic opportunities there are to carry out these processes. The deposit guarantee available to carry out the initial examination is paid to one of the parties if it is not expected to receive more than SEK 100 000 from the estate when it is divided. It is enough that you own a right-of-occupancy in principle in any municipality in Sweden today to get over 100 000 SEK. It is also about five hours of initial work. But if you have a blocking party, it won't last five hours. Then it is a question of using one's own money to be able to run the processes in the various parts that the Minister raises. A person with a weak financial position does not have the economic potential. The question is therefore whether there are a number of settlement processes that we do not see in the statistics because you choose to step out and not even work to get your right. Economics is for many a means of power. How are you going to get that new apartment to move on? Families are affected, and if there are children in these relationships, they are severely affected. For me, this is perhaps the most important part of this: Children should not be affected when two adults have become so unhappy that they cannot sort out their situation. In the case I mentioned earlier with the woman who has been running her process for seven years, she has been able to do so because her parents have been able to borrow her money. But she is thus in debt to her parents. It is positive that the Minister is willing to look further at the issues, because I think this is important. These are people who may be in a weak position and who are affected. I look forward to having this kind of conversation, but I still think that some kind of investigation is needed to go through these pieces. We will constantly ensure that the weak person and, above all, the children are protected in these processes.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-35	Mr President, I would like to I certainly believe that we have a common understanding here. What I was pointing out was just that there are a number of quite powerful legal instruments. But it requires an activity from the settlement agents and that they really make use of them. Then, of course, it may take time, but it also affects the husband who is not doing well. Ultimately, he or she is at risk of paying. There are periodic penalty payments here, and there are, as I said, oaths, where, in the worst case, you risk prison sentences if you lie during the petition. There is an opportunity to place assets under special management and, as I said, there is also an opportunity afterwards to impose an increase in the cost on the spouse who has not done what he or she is supposed to do. In addition, even if the person concerned does not appear at the time of the hearing, it can still be decided in matters of division of property. The compensation guarantee is designed so that you can get a share of it if you earn less than 130 000 SEK per year. Just as Martina Johansson said, the idea is that this should go to the first five hours in order for a settlement clerk to be able to make an assessment of whether there are assets in the estate at all. If there are assets, you can move on, and then the financing of the continued work of the landowner will be taken from these assets. These costs are then ultimately shared. The guarantee is therefore in place precisely in order to provide this initial support. As I said, I am happy to pursue a dialogue on this. However, I note that the Centre Party has not allocated any money to either an investigation, to strengthen the compensation guarantee, if we are looking for it, or to anything else – at least not for next year. Therefore, I would like us to continue to have a discussion to see if there is anything else we can do and in what form. I believe that we all want to ensure that these processes can take place as quickly and as painlessly as possible for all parties.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-41	Mr President and Morgan Johansson! We may have reason to come back to this issue in the spring and in future budget discussions in order to be able to carry out an investigation in the first place. That way we can see what we need to do, and then we can set aside the exact means that we can agree on. I would like to thank the President and the Minister for their reply and wish them a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-43	Mr President, I would like to I also look forward to such a dialogue in the spring. I would also like to wish Martina Johansson a Merry Christmas, a Happy New Year and a really relaxing weekend.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-44	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to put an end to robberies against children and young people, and whether I intend to take any initiatives to impose penalties on young offenders who rob and demean. She also wonders what measures I intend to take to ensure that young people dare to report crimes. It is important to combat both crime and the causes of crime. The government has recently presented a 34-point programme against gang crime. It includes a number of new tools for law enforcement authorities, tougher penalties and better crime prevention. Several of the 34-point programme's actions are directed in whole or in part at young offenders. For example, we will improve investigations when children are suspected of crime, abolish youth reduction for young adults in the event of serious crime and introduce the new penalty for youth surveillance. In addition, the Government has provided funds to the National Board of Institutional Affairs in order to meet an increased demand in care places for young people with psychosocial problems. The 34-point programme deals specifically with robberies as an example of crimes where more detention is required. Therefore, it will be investigated whether more crimes that are often committed in gang environments need to receive more severe penalties to reflect the seriousness of the crime and provide the possibility of mandatory detention. It's worked well for the weapons crimes. These include robbery, aggravated assault and gross blackmail. The police authority plays a central role in both crime prevention and investigation. Strengthening police work and enabling more police workers to fight crime and increase security throughout the country are priorities for the government. The government's goal is that there will be 10,000 more police employees by 2024. Since the start of police growth in January 2016, the number of employees has increased by nearly 3,500. In November there were a total of 31,736 police employees. The police department has never had so many employees before. At the same time, some 3,000 police students are in education. So some progress has been made. It also needs to carry out a broad preventive work against crime and relapse into crime involving many actors in society. Early efforts to prevent children and young people from getting involved in crime are particularly important. In particular, municipalities can contribute important contributions within the framework of social services and school activities, and in the work of community planning and supervision. In order for a person who commits crimes to meet with a rapid and clear response from the judiciary, a trial in northern Stockholm has been ongoing since January 2018 with a rapid procedure aimed at simpler crimes. For young people, a rapid reaction can be particularly important and reduce the risk of continued crime. The Government decided in February 2019 on a special experiment for young offenders under the age of 18. It is important that young people who have been victims of crime receive adequate support. Several municipalities have dedicated support centres for young victims, with collective expertise on young people, crisis treatment, victim problems and the legal process – a qualified way of meeting municipalities' legal responsibilities for victims. A safe and secure court environment can be assumed to increase the willingness of victims to participate in the trial, which is a prerequisite for law enforcement and prosecution. Therefore, on 1 July 2019, several legislative changes entered into force aimed at allowing interviewers to provide their information without feeling disturbed, threatened or under pressure. It is important that the public has confidence in the judiciary and that people who have information to provide also dare to testify. Despite a number of measures in this area, the Government considers that there is now reason to consider which further measures may be relevant to improve support and protection for witnesses and their relatives. The Government has therefore set up the investigation E n strengthened the judicial process and increased prosecution, which will, among other things, look at this issue. During the last decade, the number of reported robbery was highest in 2011. Subsequently, the notifications went on for a number of years. In recent years, however, the number of reported personal robberies has started to increase. This is worrying and therefore action is being taken. With regard to juvenile crimes, we should not forget that we also see positive trends. The number of young people suspected and prosecuted for crime has decreased over the last ten years. For example, the number of young people suspected of vandalism, theft and abuse has decreased, and the proportion of young people who themselves report that they have committed theft and vandalism is also decreasing. To reverse the trend of crimes such as robbery, the government is thus taking a large number of measures to prevent and combat crimes among young people.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-58	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. There is not a single day without headlines in the newspapers about children and young people who have been robbed. Violence is getting worse and worse, often with sadistic elements. Children and young people have their freedom curtailed. They don't dare move alone. Even in large shopping center rooms with camera surveillance, they're not safe. The parents are worried. They are forced to follow their children to school or practice. Teachers advise students to move in groups. Even the Children's Program Lilla Aktuellt has had elements about how children should act when they are subjected to robbery. It is frightening that children and young people in Sweden, one of the world's most equal countries, are robbed by other peers. It is frightening and sad, as our society was built up because of the strong trust between individuals. Now this is going to be destroyed. A society that is unable to protect its most vulnerable citizens is doomed. That is why urgent action is needed. It is not possible to continue to dyke with the criminals, regardless of their age. There is no doubt that the sanctions do not deter. The perpetrators act in groups, and if arrested, they blame each other. Their old age causes them to be released directly and instead to be relegated to social services. The Minister says in his reply that social services can contribute with important contributions. For those who commit robbery with sadistic elements, social services are not the right authority. The Minister is surely aware that there are 12 to 13-year-olds with an already solid criminal career. They lack any respect for social security and other authorities. Older juvenile delinquents are also dying. Many young offenders have committed serious crimes such as assault, extortion, and robbery. They've been arrested, arrested, sometimes even confessed, but then they've been released immediately. These criminals may have lots of convictions, but these sentences have no consequences. I do not know if the Minister remembers the case of Niclas in Gothenburg, which was grossly beaten by a gang. He was robbed on ATM cards, cell phones and computers and forced to kiss the mugger's naked feet. That robber had already been arrested in March for several robberies, admitted but released. After the brutal robbery of Niclas, he committed two new robberies. This case shows that the justice system is flawed and lacks a victim's perspective. There is still strong opposition to the sentence of imprisonment. Why? Because prison sentences are thought to have a stamping effect. Prison sentences have a deterrent effect and also protect society, as criminals cannot commit new crimes while they are in prison.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-69	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Moderates would like to do their doom rhetoric. I still think that there are reasons to nuance the picture overall. The general trend in crime is both positive and negative. I can only mention a few things. Just take this with the deadly violence. There was a greater risk of being killed in Sweden 30 years ago than it is today. Mortal violence per capita has declined since 1990. You can't always believe that when you read the papers or when you listen to Boriana Åberg and other Moderates. Villa burglaries have declined quite sharply in recent years. The store crimes have been halved in ten years. Shop robberies have also been halved in ten years. The store robbery with firearms has decreased by 75 percent in ten years. Youth crimes, the number of young people suspected of crime, have decreased by 20 percent in ten years. The number of young people prosecuted for crime has decreased by 30 per cent in ten years. This is all true. But then it is also true that we have a growing concern with gang crime. Both of these images can actually be true at the same time. You can have a general development, and then you can have limited groups where there is a lot of crime and a limited number of individuals engaged in very serious crime. Then you have to deal with those gang constellations and those problems, and that's exactly what we're doing. It is, for example, about the explosions and the shootings, but it is also about the crime we are talking about now, namely robbery. In this context, measures need to be taken to increase prosecution, to increase detention and to increase prevention, but also to increase police presence. Right now we are undertaking a very large expansion of the police, in fact the largest ever. I visited the police training in Borås yesterday. A year ago, there wasn't a single police student in Borås. Today they are 288 police students. Next year, according to estimates, they will have over 570 new police students. We said a few years ago that there would be 10,000 more employees in police operations. We have now expanded with over 2 500; there are almost 3 000 more just so far. Most of them are civilian employees, but there will also be a number of police officers. As far as the robberies are concerned, we are also taking action. Boriana Åberg knows that in the 34-point programme we are pointing out the robberies as one of the crimes where we have to go forward with more detention efforts. We did it when it came to the serious weapons crimes. There we raised the sentences from one year's imprisonment to two years' imprisonment in order to obtain the presumption of detention. We need to do something similar with robbery, but also gross blackmail, aggravated assault and perhaps other crimes that these gangs are dedicated to. We need to increase the possibilities of arresting individuals who commit these crimes. This also applies to the other issues where we point out specific measures against young people who commit crimes. For example, on LVU transfers, we say in the 34-point programme that we need to review the costs of municipalities so that we can reduce them for municipalities that make LVU transfers. It is therefore a question of taking care of young people who are going into serious crime in an institution. In order to do so, we also need to expand the number of Sis seats, i.e. the seats of the State Department Board where you are placed if you are taken care of by LVU. This is one way to stop criminal behaviour on time. So there is a wide range of measures that we are taking. However, there is a difference between us. The number of personal robberies peaked in 2011, and the Moderates did little about that development. Now that we see these developments, we are acting. Maybe that's what separates us as parties.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-78	Mr President, I would like to It's not doom rhetoric I'm doing, it's reality rhetoric in the sense that there's an element of doom in this, namely the downfall of the government. The government is not capable of dealing with the problem. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I welcome the fact that the government is taking certain measures but believe that they are not sufficient. The 34-point programme referred to by the Minister contains most of the proposals for investigations, and it will take a long time before these investigations are carried out and laws can then be passed. In the meantime, criminals can continue to commit crimes. The Minister mentioned the project of speeding up the prosecution of certain crimes in his reply. It is positive that the time gap between crime, sentence and punishment should be reduced, but why should this be done only in 2022 throughout the country? You can't wait another two years. The Minister also referred to the policy of the Moderates. No other government has done so much to curb crime as moderate governments. We have long demanded the abolition of penalty rebates, but it is only now that the government has woken up. Unfortunately, the abolition of penalties only applies to serious crime. I would like to ask the Minister: why does this not apply to all crime? I would like to remind you that our courts are very restrictive in classifying crimes as serious. The abuse of Niclas that I mentioned earlier was not classified as gross despite the fact that the victim had broken facial bones and shoe prints on his face. Unfortunately, there are no proposals in the 34-point programme for the abolition of the quantity rebate, which is something that we Moderates also demand. However, I think it is positive that a penalty for those recruiting young people for crime should be introduced. However, I also believe that the age of 15 must be reduced. As it is now, criminal gangs are deliberately recruiting younger people, for example, for dealing drugs or engaging in robbery, threats, and assault. Once they've reached the age of criminal authority, they're full-fledged criminals with a consolidated criminal identity. The minister also mentioned that the government is investing in police. We're gonna have 10,000 more cops by 2024. That seems to be an unrealistic goal. A major problem is that many policemen choose to leave the profession. The working environment is unacceptable and pay is too low. Nothing is done about this. Add resources so that police salaries can be raised to SEK 30 000 a month – this is something that we Moderates want to do – and give the police better opportunities to do their important work, including through increased powers!
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-86	Mr President, I would like to At least we don't intend to do what the Moderates did with police training during their time. The only thing that you did in police training, during the Alliance, was that the Moderates cut down on police training by 90 percent in two years. It was a heavy cut. When we took office in 2014, only half as many police officers as would have been needed at that time were trained even to fill up for retirements and those who left the profession. What we have done in these years is that we now train three times as many police officers as when the Moderates ruled. We have started police training in two new locations: one in Borås, which I said visited yesterday, and one in Malmö. The Moderates have never, during their time in government, started any new police training centres. Never. It was we Social Democrats who started in Umeå. It was we Social Democrats who started in Växjö. It is we who start in Borås, it is we who start in Malmö and it is we who now scale up the police and now spend more money to the Police Authority than it has ever received before. So, as far as that is concerned, I do not think we have anything to prove in relation to the Moderates. Of course, we are following the police issue very closely. We have already scaled up the Police Authority so that it now has more employees than ever before. We will continue to ensure that we achieve the target of 10 000 more employees by 2024. When it comes to the issues of stratification, it is true that we need to make punitive efforts. We've already done a lot of punitive work. I believe that, for my part, I made proposals for almost 50 new criminal offences and penalties during the last parliamentary term. But if you are going to do this, you also need to develop money so that you can expand the capacity of the prison service to such an extent that you can manage that part of it as well. Boriana Åberg raises the issue of the reduction of penalties for young people, and I will say that I think we should do what is most effective, i.e. go on the serious crimes and the crimes committed in gang environments. However, taking the whole package, that is to say also minor and occasional crimes, I simply do not think it is very effective. If you have said, as the Moderates do, Mr President, that you want to remove the entire reduction in penalties for all young people, you must also be so good and finance it. The Moderates haven't. If the whole package were to be taken, this would cost 1.1 billion to expand the prison system. The Moderates have not financed this in their draft budgets. On the contrary, when the Oderat and KD budgets went through here last year, you underfunded Crimean inalternative care with very substantial amounts. The Correctional Service had requested SEK 395 million and received SEK 85 million from the Moderates and Christian Democrats. The Swedish Democrats also voted for that budget. So it is not good enough, on the one hand, to stand here calling for more penalties and an increased number of police officers and other things in the area of justice and, on the other hand, once you get the chance and press through a budget in this Parliament, to underfinance essential parts of the judiciary. The biggest effort you made last year, in the budget motion and the draft budgets, was not on welfare or on the judiciary, but on a tax cut of 20 billion. That is how moderates and Christian Democrats do in the debate: you are happy to talk about increased efforts, but when it comes to delivering, you simply do not live up to your own words. As I said, we are moving forward with further penalties in this section. We point out in our 34-point program, among other things, the robberies. I think it is an important effort to carry out more detention operations in that area. We are anxious to ensure that those who commit these crimes are also caged in and cared for.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-96	Mr President, I would like to In fact, the Moderates are spending 2.5 billion more than the government on the justice chain. Bringing up the previous budget and telling us that the Moderates' proposal to abolish the penalty rebate is not funded is intellectually dishonest. The Minister knows very well that when a budget is drawn up, it is based on the legislation in force. On the day the House approves the Moderates' proposal, it will be adjusted in the budget. Hopefully it is a moderate government that will. The fact that we are making unfunded proposals is simply not true. This discussion fits a little too badly in a debate about children being robbed and humiliated. The parents of the children who are robbed, beaten and humiliated neither want to hear about the budgets of the Moderates nor about the Social Democrats. They want security. They want law and order. In our country where we have such high taxes, citizens have the right to expect security. They have the right to expect the state to keep its share of the citizen's contract and not to tear it apart and stamp it.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-98	Mr President, I would like to What is said in this House must then be linked to the proposals it makes, including the draft budget. The public, who are rightly upset about these crimes, must also be able to see that the political parties are not only talking about them but also taking action against them. Then it is not good enough to cut the police education by 90 percent, as you did during the alliance years, because the money had run out because you had reduced the tax so much that Sweden had large budget deficits. This is not good enough, and then you don't do your job. Nor is it good to call here for higher sentences and a greater number of detention efforts if the prison system is not then financed. It is not just that you have not financed it in the future; you have not, of course, done so. What I pointed out was that when you had the chance to influence and push through last year's budget, you didn't care about budget demands from the Correctional Service of several hundred million crowns. You voted for far too little money. The first thing I had to do again when I took office in January was to first put 300 million extra to the Prison Service and then another 200 million in the autumn. We have thus strengthened the Prison Service by SEK 500 million. Why have we done that? Yes, to ensure that there are enough employees and capacities to take care of those who are now being detained as a result of the fact that the police have again begun to deliver with increased effectiveness in their law enforcement and that we have tightened the penalties. We will continue on this path and focus on the crimes committed by gang criminals. These may be serious weapons offences, serious drug offences, robberies and aggravated assaults. We make sure to take the individuals one by one and place them where they should be, that is, within the prison service.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-103	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Andersson i Skellefteå has asked me whether the government intends to close the loophole which means that up to 36 000 persons with temporary residence permits can be granted long-term resident status in Sweden, and whether foreigners affected by the so-called Upper Secondary Education Act will be subject to the possibility of applying for long-term resident status in Sweden, thereby obtaining a permanent residence permit. The question of who can be granted long-term resident status in Sweden is regulated by EU law. So it's not a loophole. The abolition of the requirement for a permanent residence permit in order to obtain long-term resident status was done to ensure that Swedish legislation does not conflict with EU law. The Government decided on 14 June 2019 to set up a parliamentary committee to take a position on the future Swedish migration policy. One of the issues to be considered by the Committee is the conditions under which permanent residence permits are to be granted to asylum seekers who meet the criteria for being granted a residence permit. In doing so, the Committee has to take account of existing EU law, including the directive governing the status of third-country nationals as long-term residents. The Committee shall submit its report on 15 August 2020. Of course, I follow the Committee's work closely.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-106	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. First of all, I must say that this migration committee is becoming a bit strange. It seems to serve as an alibi for all kinds of migration policy measures by the Government and the Minister for Migration. Just because a committee has been set up does not mean that the world stops and waits for possible results. The situation in the municipalities is already precarious. I also note that the Minister avoids the question of whether persons covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act will be able to apply for long-term resident status. Let me come back to this part a little later. First of all, I would like to raise the issue of whether 36 000 foreigners with a temporary residence permit will now be allowed to stay permanently in Sweden, with the good memory of the Social Democrats. I would like to start by providing a context so that people who listen to the debate really understand the issue. The foreigner who has lived five years in Sweden can apply for long-term resident status, VABO. At the same time, this means that you automatically get a permanent residence permit. This was not a major problem before 2016, because at that time virtually all residence permits in Sweden were permanent. What did VABO matter when everyone already had a permanent residence permit? However, when the VABO Act was amended by the Government Löfven in 2016, the temporary law on temporary residence permits had already been in place for six months. It is the legislation that Minister Johansson in this House repeatedly refers to when he talks about order, that they have taken responsibility, that we have Europe's lowest levels, etcetera. In the proposal for the Temporary Act, the government itself wrote in the following way: ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to Let me say straight away that we in the Swedish Democrats are in favour of the tightening up of the temporary law. Even if it is not enough, it means at least a few steps along the way. I understand that Minister Johansson is also on that line. Nevertheless, the Minister is now standing here refusing to take responsibility for the fact that 36 000 people will be granted a residence permit on the basis of VABO. This could have been remedied already this summer with a view to the extension of the Temporary Act. The Finnish Immigration Service drew attention to this problem in its referral. Mr President, I would like to The way I see it, there are only two logical options here. Either the government was fully aware that this situation would arise but chose to ignore it. Maybe it was a concession to the Left Party, the Green Party or the Center Party. What do I know? – as a kind of amnesty for 36 000 people. Or the government did not see this coming, despite all the warning signs. My supplementary question to Minister Johansson is therefore: did you see it coming and ignored it, or did you miss the warning signals again?
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-115	Mr President, I would like to First of all, we can note that the government has taken hold on migration policy. When we took office five years ago, Sweden received 15% of all asylum seekers who came to the EU. Today, that figure is about 3%. Our share of the EU population is about 2%. So we're about where we're supposed to be. We have brought the numbers down to such a level that we are able to handle the whole thing. We now have the lowest number of asylum seekers coming to Sweden in 13 years, and it is, as I said, only 3% who come to Sweden of those who come to the EU. Jonas Andersson confuses two things. The Upper Secondary Education Act was introduced so that a limited group could be given a second chance because they had had to wait a very long time in the process. This requires that you as an unaccompanied minor have arrived before 25 November 2015 and that you have had to wait more than 15 months. To be covered by the Upper Secondary Education Act is not unconditional, quite the contrary. It requires you to take care of the school, to stay in the skin and not commit any crimes and to establish yourself in the labour market within six months of leaving your education. Then according to the High School Act, you have a chance to stay in Sweden. But if you do not meet these criteria, you will be refused and must go back home. As a result of the agreement that we now have with Afghanistan, which we did not have when we took office but negotiated, the return is now working there. There are planes going back to Afghanistan every month for those who have been refused their asylum application and will return there again. The question asked was: Can these young people and others apply for long-term residence? However, this is a different set of rules. This is something that is regulated by EU law. Neither is it unobtrusive. Firstly, it requires you to have stayed here or elsewhere in the EU for five years. Secondly, you must have an orderly livelihood. For example, you can't go on social security. Thirdly, you should be able to show that you have the opportunity to make a long-term living in Sweden. If so, you can apply for long-term resident status. It is not a regulation that applies only to Sweden; it is a regulation that applies across the EU. If the Swedish Democrats want to leave the EU directive, the Swedish Democrats can ensure that Sweden leaves the EU. I know you have felt that way before, but I do not know if you have changed your mind on this point. This is a directive that applies across the EU. Basically, this is about the fact that this regulatory framework is in no way unclaimed. How many of those who are in Sweden who will be able to apply for long-term resident status, and who may eventually become so, remains to be seen. I can only say that so far this has been used to a small extent. In recent years there have been about a thousand notifications per year and 50 per cent of the granting rate. It often happens that you have not been here with permission for five years and that you cannot show that you have an orderly livelihood. D u may be on social security benefits, and you cannot prove that you are able to support yourself in the long term. Do not blow up the question to be substantially larger than it is! There are also limits to what you have to show when it comes to supply. In the case of a family with two adults and two children, you must have an income of at least SEK 13,000 per month and income so that you can manage your accommodation. Once again, I can see that this framework is not undemanding either, just as the Upper Secondary Education Act is not unclaimed either.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-121	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. The Minister also confuses certain elements, such as supply requirements. In fact, there are different supply requirements for VABO and what is included in the temporary law. As far as VABO is concerned, the Finnish Immigration Service's legal position is that there is no requirement for the third-country national, who applies for long-term resident status in Sweden, to have income to cover his or her livelihood. ..................................................... The Migration Board says straight out, literally, that you don't have to make any money. It is enough if someone else gives you money at the time of application. Furthermore, the Finnish Immigration Service says that the assessment of the M Igrationsverket is that it is irrelevant whether a person has been able to support himself through his own resources, as long as he has been supported by someone else and has not been burdened by the social assistance system. ..................................................... This means that as long as you do not have social security benefits, you have not been a burden to society. Thus, even if you have lived under a bridge on the street, you are considered to have supported yourself. Let's get back to VABO. It is possible to argue as Morgan Johansson does, i.e. that it was necessary and forced because EU law demanded it. The Minister is quite right, of course. The EU bureaucrats have far too much influence on what should be a Swedish matter, namely migration to Sweden and who should be allowed to stay here. Let us move on to the issue of VABO. I hope, to the great pleasure of the Minister, that there are solutions to the problem. Of course, it would have been best if the government had acted already when the warning bells rang this summer, but there is still time. There is nothing in EU law to say that VABO must be linked to a permanent residence permit. The directives simply state that the temporary resident should be granted a residence permit of five years, not that it should be permanent. It would therefore be perfectly possible to continue with temporary residence permits, even if they would have to be valid for more than five years. In this way, we could still uphold the spirit of the temporary law, that is, permanent residence permits should be reserved for those who have come to work for real, those who can support themselves for real and those who have become part of Swedish society for real. I still wonder whether the Minister will come back with a sharp proposal on this issue. Or is the plan to sit on your hands, blame EU directives and hide behind the Migration Committee? In the case of unaccompanied minors, the Director General of the Finnish Immigration Service Mikael Ribbenvik wrote in a written reply to the Social Security Committee the other week that legal guidance is lacking in both preparatory work and case law. This is worrying, Mr President. I think that we here in Parliament and Swedish voters and citizens deserve an answer as to where the government is on the issue. Will there be a covert amnesty?
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-131	Mr President, I would like to We have just seen an example of how the Swedish Democrats work. They're putting out fog curtains. It takes up half-heavy quotes, does not include the whole picture, says perhaps only a third of the truth and tries to keep the rest of the picture secret. This is one way to sow anxiety among people in general. In fact, however, there are clear requirements for applying for long-term resident status in Sweden. It is a matter of meeting the requirement in five years' time. You must have an orderly livelihood, either yourself or a spouse. That is why the writing exists, so that one can show that there is an order for the entire household. But it is not just a question of this. You must also show that you are able to support yourself in the long term. If you have lived under a bridge for several years, I imagine that it is very difficult to show that you can support yourself in the long term when you apply for long-term residence. I understand that Jonas Andersson wants to convey a picture of that being the case, but that is not the case. There are clear limits to be respected. I believe that this is basically about the view of these people. The Swedish democrats obviously want them to go year after year, 5, 10, 15 or 20 years, and move forward on temporary residence permits that are to be extended one year at a time or one and a half years at a time without having the opportunity to take root anywhere: that is how it should be in Europe. That is why the EU directive exists. This is because after having lived for a certain period in a country you must have the opportunity to feel the security that a more permanent order can give you. That is why the regulatory framework applies to all EU countries. It is not a regulatory framework that we can ignore or that we can leave behind. In that case, we will have to leave the EU as well. I know that the Swedish Democrats have wanted to do so in the past, but it is not freely chosen work to comply with EU directives or not. If you have the attitude that tens of thousands of people, millions of people in Europe in total, will live here on graces for 5, 10, 15 years and not have the opportunity to root out, that the children will grow up in Europe but under the threat of going back again at any time, if that's the view the Swedish Democrats have – I actually think that's the case – then I understand their position on the issue. That sight isn't mine. My view is that sooner or later, even with temporary residence permits for an initial period and for short-term conflicts, it must be possible for these children, women and men to take root in the new country. Here we simply have different ways of looking at this. I do not have the entrance that people who do not look like you, me or others in Sweden should not be allowed to reside in Sweden. I have the entrance that we must take care of the people who have come here to escape war, grief and persecution.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-140	Mr President, I would like to I don't know what Morgan Johansson did for bread before he became a full-time politician. I myself have worked for the last 15 years with asylum seekers, refugees, migrants, Syrians, Afghans, Kurds, Somalis and about twenty other nationalities. I went into politics because I saw with my own eyes that the system did not work – the system that Morgan Johansson and his colleagues have built up. It is rude by Morgan Johansson and stand here and suggest things, such as poor human vision. It's very low. It is almost lower than the Social Democrats' opinion figures. I think Morgan Johansson missed something here. It was the immigration minister's government that produced the temporary law. It was Morgan Johansson's government that wrote:.The government believes that there should be no possibility of granting permanent residence permits on grounds of protection, except for quota refugees. Isn't the Minister for Migration behind that law? Why should we have rules and laws if they are not respected? Why should we have a minister of migration at all if no action is taken when problems arise? Perhaps we should instead put the entire portfolio in the lap of the Migration Committee? I don't know what the Minister thinks. Will the Minister of Migration sit still and watch 36 000 people, corresponding to the size of a city of Skellefteås, receive a permanent residence permit as a result of VABO, or will the Minister act? What about the unaccompanied young adults without asylum reasons that exist in Sweden as a result of the so-called High School Act? Will these additional 8 000 be covered by the same EU law? The Swedish people have the right to know the government's position on the matter. Having said that, I would like to take this opportunity to wish the Minister, the President and the other Parliament a very merry Christmas.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-147	Mr President, I would like to However Jonas Andersson tries to reverse this, the requirements and regulations are clear. When it comes to the High School Act, it's about you being able to run the school, you're supposed to stay in the skin and not commit any crimes and you're going to establish yourself in the labour market. If you do not live up to those requirements, there is a great risk that you will simply be allowed to leave Sweden. We have had a working return to Afghanistan for a few years. There are airplanes every month. It didn't when we took office. It is thanks to the measures we have taken. The second concerns the rules on long-term residence. Neither is it unobtrusive. Again, you're supposed to have been here for five years. You're supposed to have an orderly livelihood. You're not supposed to be on welfare. You should also be able to show that you have the opportunity to support yourself in the long term. This also does not differ significantly from what is contained in the Upper Secondary Education Act. There are also clear limits for this. This is a way of trying to spread some general concern that we have regulations here that mean that people without any major demands should be able to stay in Sweden, and that is not actually the case. What we have done over these years is that we have tightened up migration policy in such a way that today we have levels that we are capable of receiving. We didn't when we took office. 15% of all those who came to the EU came to Sweden. Today it is about 3%. It is a consequence of the legislative changes that we have made. Do not contribute to spreading any kind of mistrust or general concern that this is not the case! Actually, it's true. Then my position is that sooner or later there must also be an opportunity to root in a new country. That is why the EU directive exists. We cannot choose that in any way. It is there, and it applies to all countries throughout the European Union. Having said that, of course, I would also like to wish Jonas Andersson a Merry Christmas and a relaxing weekend ahead.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-154	Mr President, I would like to Tobias Andersson has asked me if I will review the possibility of initiating tax relief for Swedish small-scale alcohol production. Under current EU rules, it is possible in some cases for Member States to apply differentiated alcohol taxes. For example, reduced rates may be applied to beer brewed by independent small breweries with limited production. Similar possibilities exist for small distilleries. However, if a Member State chooses to use the option of applying such a reduced tax, it must apply equally to producers throughout the EU. If a Swedish brewery were to receive reduced tax, similar breweries of the same size from other Member States would also have to receive reduced tax. It is therefore not possible to give reduced tax only to small Swedish producers. As you know, Swedish alcohol policy is based on the overriding objective of promoting public health. This is done through a restrictive alcohol policy. An important instrument that can be used to achieve the objective is the alcohol tax. As far as possible, Swedish alcohol taxation is linked to the alcohol content of a commodity, rather than who produced it. A lower level of taxation due to the fact that alcohol is produced by smaller operators would thus mean a departure from Swedish alcohol policy. I see no reason to initiate such a change in alcohol policy.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-158	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply. The issue of a tax relief for small-scale Swedish alcohol production was recently raised when the Swedish Association of Independent Small Breweries launched a report in this area. Naturally, that report chose to explicitly look at beer, but there may be reasons to see it in a broader perspective. In this interpellation debate, it is therefore a fundamental discussion that should take place. The relevant report points out that there is a possibility for EU Member States to allocate a tax credit to domestic small-scale breweries of up to 50% of the national excise duty on alcohol, in accordance with Article 4 of EU Directive 92/ 83/EEC. It also highlights how Sweden and Italy are the only states that have not chosen to use this opportunity, and we stand out in this context. Mr President, I would like to Before I further develop my argument, I would like to inform both the President and the Minister for Finance that, so far, we in the Swedish Democrats do not have a sharp proposal on this issue. However, after the issue has now been raised, there is reason to consider it. It is by no means impossible for us to come back with some sort of proposal in this area, but I leave that unsaid until further notice. I am referring to this in order to avoid a debate about us being in favour of something that we have not yet decided on. Instead, I would like to discuss the issue on the basis of a principled approach, as well as on the basis of the potential practical consequences of implementing a similar proposal. The advantages I see with a possible tax relief for small-scale alcohol production are several. The initial fiscal impact is extremely small. In the present report it is 53 million in tax revenue foregone. It is likely that this loss of revenue would be quickly eaten up by new jobs, increased investment and more. In addition, the proposal would as such benefit an often rural-oriented industry and strengthen competition by facilitating the ability of Swedish breweries to compete with large global players on the Swedish market. All of this can happen without compromising the alcohol monopoly or promoting unhealthy consumption of alcohol. Mr President, I would like to In his reply, the Minister for Finance responds to the proposal on the basis of two lines of argument. The first is that reduced tax cannot only be allocated to small Swedish producers, as a consequence of the free internal market. This is, of course, correct but cannot possibly be seen as an argument against the proposal because the sales concerned are very much local or domestic. In addition, as has been said, 26 out of 28 states have managed to implement the proposal without any problems, so it seems directly unserious to claim that it would be a problem if we wanted to join this group. In addition, the directive in question explicitly states that they must in particular ensure that no individual supply from any other Member State is subject to a higher tax rate than its exact domestic equivalent. This should put an end to the concern of the Minister for Finance, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to In view of this, the Minister for Finance would be happy to clarify why it would be a problem for Sweden to introduce a tax relief for small producers when everyone else has done this without any problems.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-168	Mr President, I would like to What is it that Sweden has understood that other countries have not understood? If we look at Europe, we see that there is a directive which says we can reduce the tax on handcrafted beer, as almost all countries in the EU and Norway have done. Italy and Sweden are the sidelines. In this context, it is difficult to compare Sweden and Italy. Italy has a much lower tax rate, and then it may also have a lower tax control. Nevertheless, it is interesting to see that countries such as Norway and Finland, which have a similar alcohol policy to Sweden, have found this a way forward precisely because they wanted to benefit small domestic producers. Mr President, I would like to I have noted that the Minister for Finance has stuck to the fact that the directive does not give the right to benefit only Swedish producers; all handcrafted beer sold on the Swedish market would then have this reduced tax rate. I'm looking at that. Of 1 662 handcrafted beer available at Systembolaget, 29 are not produced in Sweden. They come from Denmark, Finland and Norway. They account for 1.7% of the number of types. I can't tell you how much volume it is. However, it points out very clearly that handcrafted beer is a local product that is consumed near the place where it is produced and that these companies do not really have the power to export their products. There are huge economies of scale in beer production. The cost of producing a litre of handcrafted beer is about SEK 70, while the cost of the cheapest beer at Systembolaget is over SEK 20. That's where the big problem is. We in Sweden have an alcohol policy that is not discussed very much. We fundamentally agree on the broad features. The broad features are limited accessibility, a high cost and a social safety net to capture those that fall through. If the price is discussed, as we do in this context, it must nevertheless be noted that the purpose of the tax is achieved for the most expensive alcohol product available at Systembolaget. If the tax is to ensure that a product is so expensive that it is not consumed to the extent desired, the most expensive product at Systembolaget cannot be the one for which tax relief can be discussed. If you count pure alcohol, it costs about $1,300 to buy a litre of handcrafted beer, while the average cost is about half. There is another part that has also been highlighted in recent weeks. It has to do with launching this report and talking about wanting a reduced tax to create jobs, often in rural areas where the labour market is weak, and because the economy of these companies is often poor. Even if you talk about a reduction in alcohol tax, it will certainly not mean lowering the product price at the end of the line. It is interesting that Systembolaget has now launched a procurement for an extreme budget beer. You want a beer that costs less than SEK 7 to sell in Systembolaget's stores. In this context, it is interesting that the state, on the one hand, is launching an extreme budget beer but, on the other hand, with regard to the most expensive alcohol product at Systembolaget, is not prepared to discuss tax incentives to promote domestic production. I would like the Minister of Finance to clarify the government's view when, on the one hand, it launches an extremely low-cost product and, on the other hand, it does not want to do anything to benefit the Swedish producers of the most expensive products at Systembolaget.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-175	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Tobias Andersson is another Swedish Democrat who has very close links with business organisations and runs their concerns here in the Swedish Parliament. We have seen the Swedish Democrats move more and more towards pursuing the interests of business rather than ordinary people. Reference is made to a report drawn up by one of the business associations. The figures contained in such reports are probably good to have an external assessor's view on. That's my tip. It is not always external assessors who make the same assessments as industry's own organisations, as they aim to represent precisely the interests of industry. It is important that different interests can be represented in the debate. Reports are, of course, good, but before you use them as politicians, you should probably look at the figures. At least it's my experience. The purpose of the Swedish alcohol tax is to promote public health. That is why we have an alcohol tax that reflects as much as possible the alcohol content of the beverages, because the purpose is precisely to drink less and to drink less alcoholic beverages. I think that is a good starting point for the alcohol tax. If you change the alcohol tax in order to promote less production, you move away from that point of view, which is the whole basis for why you have an alcohol tax at all. I hear that the Moderates are a long way from the moderate politics of my predecessor's time. At the time they thought it was important that we had proper alcohol taxes in Sweden. Anders Borg also raised them on several occasions. I don't know if the Moderates have changed their policy. Are there other taxes that you want to be lower for small-scale and more expensive production than for large-scale production?
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-179	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again for the reply from the Minister for Finance. It is claimed that, as a consequence of this interpellation, I have somehow proved that I would run business and pursue their interests. If Magdalena Andersson thinks that is what you do when you visit a local microbrewery within the framework of your constituency, I think it is a very remarkable view of the relationship with your own constituency, with the local business community and with the entrepreneurs who build this society strong. My recommendation to the Minister for Finance is that she should visit the business community in the country somewhat more often than she stands and rumbles about the same here in Parliament. Having said that, Mr President, I would like to turn to the second line of argument of the Minister for Finance in the interpellation response, namely alcohol policy in general and public health in particular. First of all, I would like to say that the Swedish Democrats are behind the Swedish alcohol monopoly and share the public health craze of the Minister for Finance. I know that there is no conflict line here. The issue in which I and the Minister for Finance differ is, instead, whether we consider that the proposal as such would de facto eliminate the aim of Swedish alcohol policy and most seriously destroy Swedish public health or not. My strong conviction, Mr President, is that this would not have been the case. I'm saying the Minister of Finance can push out and relax. In addition, the report mentioned above states that tax cuts would not be used for price reductions, but instead that the breweries would have preferred to use the money to invest in equipment and staff. Nevertheless, if we were to play with the idea that the small breweries had taken the opportunity to reduce their prices by one or a few crowns, it would hardly have reduced public health. Handicrafted beer, as recently mentioned here, is the most expensive alcohol sold at Systembolaget. In other words, it is a segment suitable for connoisseurs, beer enthusiasts and those who wish to support local business rather than those who are at risk of alcohol abuse. Both I and the Minister of Finance belong to income classes that are able to consume, if desired, handcrafted beer for SEK 40 instead of mass-produced long casings for 15:90 or small jars for less than SEK 10. However, please note, Mr President, that I am in no way discriminating against any beer, whether cheap or expensive. This is an example. Now I cannot and will not speak on behalf of the Minister for Finance or anyone else, but I am at least convinced that my alcohol consumption had not derailed as a consequence of the fact that handcrafted beer that I like had fallen in price from SEK 40 to 38 per bottle. My point, Mr President, is that hardly many people are connoisseurs of those who are now abusing alcohol. In the event of a strong abuse, it is more a matter of consuming whatever you can get your hands on. Quantity is set before quality. Supporting local business is hardly something that is taken into account in such a decision-making process for addicts. In view of this, the Minister for Finance's argument that the proposal would risk impairing Swedish public health is seen as a reality from the outset. However, Mr President, I would like to give the Minister for Finance the opportunity to clarify himself. Does the Minister of Finance seriously believe that alcoholics prefer beer from small breweries? Does the Minister of Finance mean that reduced excise duty on this small-scale and expensive alcohol would impair and destroy Swedish public health?
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-186	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Finance Minister draws a sharp line between business and ordinary people. In this context, I would advise the Minister for Finance to visit a microbrewery and see what people look like. I can guarantee that they are very common there too. I also note that the Minister for Finance seems to have little interest in this report. She says that figures published by professional organisations should be examined, but at the same time there is no single figure in the report. I have the report right here. The Minister of Finance can have it if she wants. It is quite interesting reading, and before criticizing anything you should actually have taken note of it. I don't know if the Minister of Finance has done it. As I said earlier, the alcohol tax has a purpose to make alcohol more limited. But when we talk about the most expensive product available at Systembolaget we can note that that purpose has already been achieved. It's a pretty limited product. Despite this, there is a culture in Sweden that has made the interest in micro brewed, handcrafted and locally produced beer quite great. In recent years several hundred new breweries have started. Many of them have a poor economy because it is expensive and difficult to get into the market. As the Minister of Finance knows, we are not allowed to sell alcohol in this country. Today, 3.4 percent of the beer sold at Systembolaget is handcrafted. Let's count on what that means. The handcrafted beer comprises approximately 1 billion in sales value, which guarantees about 250 million in VAT revenue alone. It can be said that if we had not had the handcrafted beer, we would have lost perhaps 100 or up to 150 million in VAT revenue. It shows that this reform has very few losers. There are no losers in the fishing industry or in social policy, and rural areas benefit from new jobs. That is why I think this is a reform that the Minister for Finance should consider at the Christmas table when she drinks a hopefully locally produced and crafted beer.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-192	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jan R Andersson for the tip about local, craft-produced beer. There's actually a beer named after my neighborhood. It has excellent quality. Have I read this report? No, I haven't read this report. Nor have I looked at the figures, but it was a general observation after 25 years of experience with many business reports. It is good information and good to produce many reports. It is usually good to have the figures reviewed for an extra time by officials who are not paid by business organisations. Of course, it is good to visit local production in your constituency or elsewhere. I myself go around a lot in the country and visit both large and small companies. However, this does not mean that I immediately adopt the views expressed by their representatives, because different interests often stand against each other. If I understand Tobias Andersson correctly, he means that since handcraft beer is mostly drunk by connoisseurs, it is no problem to lower the tax on that beer, whereas cheaper beer that alcoholics drink should have a little higher tax. For me, this is a strange way of reasoning. Alcohol consumption is a problem far beyond the fact that some people have substance abuse problems. All the alcohol consumed is harmful to health. But to go from there to somehow mean that beer that is drunk by people with alcohol problems should have high taxes while beer for those who can afford to buy more expensive alcohol, handcrafted beer for connoisseurs, should be subsidised... If you draw it a little longer we would thus have a tax reduction for champagne and a tax surcharge for cheaper Spanish country wine. That is not how I think politics should be pursued.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-196	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for his reply, although at the end it was of a rather resounding nature. Of course, the purpose of the Swedish alcohol tax, as the Minister of Finance said in his initial response to the interpellation, is to promote Swedish public health. My point is that then there is a problem with having very cheap beer, which obviously makes it easier for those suffering from abuse to have the economic conditions to acquire it, rather than going after the most expensive alcohol in the range at Systembolaget. I am fully convinced that the Minister for Finance understands the logic of this reasoning. What is strange is that when the Minister of Finance pulls his lance for Swedish public health, she does so exclusively linked to the expensive handcrafted beer. At the same time, I have so far not heard the Finance Minister at all problematizing that Systembolaget now wants to sell beer for 6.90 SEK can. If it is something that would make it easier to abuse, it is self-evident to have such extremely cheap products easily accessible to those who are in the border area of the problem. However, the Finance Minister has not been able to problematise this despite the fact that the issue has already emerged in this debate. Mr President, I would like to As the Minister of Finance is opposed to tax incentives for small-scale and expensive alcohol production but does not strive to criticise Systembolaget's ambitions for beer for SEK 6.90, the Minister of Finance is happy to clarify why the former has a negative impact on public health while the latter does not. Alternatively, if the latter has a negative impact, why has the Minister of Finance not been involved in the debate about Systembolaget's desire to sell beer cans for 6, 90?
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-200	Mr President, I would like to Why do I not have comments on exactly what Systembolaget does? Because Systembolaget decides for itself over its range and prices. If I were to get involved in this matter, I am sure either Tobias Andersson or Niklas Wykman or someone else would immediately register with the Constitutional Committee. That's the answer to that question. However, I still find it extremely difficult to understand Tobias Andersson's argument about having a subsidy for expensive alcohol, for expensive products that people with higher incomes have the opportunity to buy, and instead have higher taxes for the alcohol that people with regular wages can buy. It is difficult for me to get together, and I suppose that says a lot about what the Swedish Democrats are today. But above all: Alcohol is harmful to all people who consume it. In addition to being harmful to public health, excessive use of alcohol has major social consequences. That is why I am one hundred percent behind Swedish alcohol policy, where we have both the tax and the monopoly as extremely important tools for protecting not only public health but also children's upbringing and the social environment.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-203	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked me how much impact I think the reduction of the job tax credit has on public finances in the long term. The question is raised in the light of the assessments made in the budget proposal for the abolition of the upper tier limit on State income tax. The effects on employment and hours worked reported there are primarily external assessors' estimates and calculations. These assessments are made specifically for the upper layer limit. D e is subject to very large uncertainties and falls gradually over a long period of time.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-205	Mr President, I would like to I limped forward because my foot fell asleep listening to previous interpellation debates. Even the Minister of Finance or perhaps the Ministry of Finance seems to have fallen asleep when they responded to my interpellation. This is a very important question, Mr President, which receives a very brief, almost cut-off answer. But it's Christmas days, and you're supposed to be nice to see the best in each other. It is obviously good for Sweden that Magdalena Andersson chooses to remove the military tax. It was a temporary tax introduced by the Social Democrats to restore public finances following the very dreary 80s and 90s crisis. It would not be a permanent part of the Swedish tax system, but would be removed when public finances were settled. It was a very long time before the Social Democrats removed this tax, but now it is being removed. Mr President, I would like to There's nothing wrong with that. It is clear that many – especially ordinary wage earners, such as LO workers – may find it strange that at the turn of the year a Social Democratic government gives people with very high incomes large tax breaks while ordinary families with regular incomes in the vast majority or at least many cases receive increased tax. Many have views on the fact that the Minister of Finance had nothing left over to other people who work, but only to those who serve the most. However, the disappearance of the defence tax is welcome for Sweden when it comes to competitiveness, education and so on. The intervention is about the escalation of the job tax deduction, i.e. those who earn more than SEK 50 000 receive less job tax deductions. They get 3% defense tax; we had 8% before. And now we can say that we have 3% left. Since the Finance Minister makes the assessment in his budget that the defence tax is self-financing, it is a little strange to keep another tax that it should also be self-financing to remove. What does it mean that a tax is self-financing, Mr President? This means that there will be more money in society. The state is not losing money, but people are allowed to keep more themselves. And when people get to keep more themselves, there is the opportunity to buy more things, save more money or invest. This means that we can either get more jobs through increased consumption or that we can gain stronger business and competitiveness in the long term through more investment in the economy. The Minister of Finance makes the assessment in his budget that the self-financing rate of removing the defence tax is either close to 100 per cent or even well above 100 per cent. It is therefore strange that one chooses to retain taxes that weigh down the Swedish economy. Nevertheless, it is important, regardless of how much the tax burden is collected, that tax collection is effective and that it is done in such a way that it harms the economy as little as possible. It would be interesting to receive an answer from the Minister of Finance about how she sees us as having taxes that it would probably be entirely self-financing or almost self-financing to remove, especially in the light of the situation in Sweden. We are among the countries with the highest unemployment rate in the EU. Perhaps even more serious, Mr President, is that next year Sweden will be deemed to have the lowest growth per person throughout the European Union. Thus, no other country is judged to be less successful with the economy than Sweden. When Anders Borg was finance minister at one time, he was appointed Europe's best finance minister. Instead, we now have a finance minister who delivers the lowest growth per person across the EU.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-215	Mr President, I would like to The Member of Parliament Niklas Wykman wishes to receive further answers to interpellations. I will take it with me and ask the officials to prepare longer answers. We can work together on that too. If Niklas Wykman can ask more complicated questions, I can also try to come up with further and more complicated answers. The truth is, we don't know the effects. There's no truth to this. There are estimates. But those estimates are subject to very great uncertainty. In addition, it is very unclear during which time these very uncertain effects occur. That is also the reason why the more precise calculations that were previously included in the budget proposals no longer do so. There is a very great deal of uncertainty. These are estimates. The figures in the budget proposal are external assessors. It is also clear in the budget proposal that there is great uncertainty and that it is very unclear during the time period. The same applies to any possible calculation of the reduction of the job tax credit. I believe that even the Moderates, at least when they were in government, share my view that there is great uncertainty and that it is a long period of time. For it chose not to do anything about the military tax, even though it reduced the tax by 140 billion.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-219	Mr President, I would like to Many Swedish households with regular income naturally wonder why they do not get any tax cuts or even get tax increases at the turn of the year while the Minister of Finance chooses to remove the military tax for those who earn the most. Nevertheless, the Minister of Finance is arguing well for that decision in his budget. Among other things, she writes that to some extent it will pay more for the individual to train and offer his or her workforce in high-paid occupations. This may mean that in the longer term it may be easier for companies to obtain skilled labour. The proposal can also strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish companies and Sweden in attracting qualified international workers, as pointed out by, among others, the Enterprise Tax Delegation. ..................................................... The fact that the Minister of Finance has not made his own calculations does not seem to be true. In her own budget, she writes about the microsimulation model Fasit, which is used by the Ministry of Finance itself: are estimates based on the microsimulation model FASIT indicate that the number of hours worked in the economy can increase by 0.13% as a result of the reform, which corresponds to approximately 7,000 annual labour forces; however, this figure is subject to uncertainty and the real impact may be higher or lower. Several studies... also indicate that these effects can be significant. It is probably the case that the effect may be greater, according to the research that exists. According to literature in this area, the long-term self-financing rate of the reform may range from 56 to 185 per cent. An overall assessment is that the long-term self-financing rate is most likely to be close to 100%. The overall assessment is therefore the government's assessment. Mr President, I would like to The government is clearly arguing in favour of abolishing the military tax. The Minister of Finance continues in the budget: that The abolition of the military tax is estimated to contribute to an increase in average working time. The proposal is estimated to strengthen the financial incentives of already employed individuals to work more hours and to make a wage career. In the long term, the proposal is expected to lead to more hours worked and an increase in earnings for these individuals. It will, in turn, have a positive impact on the bnp. It is therefore not true, as the Minister for Finance says, that it is only external assessors who make these assessments. It is the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Finance's own department, that makes these assessments. However, the cut-off in employment tax is likely to be more harmful to the economy and perhaps more unfair than the defence tax in the sense that those who earn the most are not affected by it. It only makes people who make a lot of money but not the most. The Minister of Finance has created a strange tax structure that makes people with huge incomes pay lower taxes than those with only high incomes. It's very marginal, and it's hard for the rest of us to understand why you choose to do it that way. Most strangely, the Minister of Finance notes that the rate of self-financing to remove this kind of tax is most likely to be 100%. There could be more. It could be something smaller, but most of it speaks for something more, according to the Ministry of Finance's own budget. It would increase GDP, it would increase employment and it would increase the number of people in work. Nevertheless, the Minister of Finance chooses to maintain the reduction in the tax credit, which she has introduced herself. The questions to the Minister for Finance will be: Why is this cut-off of the job tax credit good? In what way is it in the interest of Swedish welfare? In what way is it in Sweden's interest? How does it make our country better? Does it in any way contribute to Sweden becoming a better country to be in? The Minister of Finance himself writes that this kind of tax leads to lower GDP, higher unemployment, fewer hours worked and so on. Is it just that the Minister of Finance does not think that people who are educated should benefit from it?
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-230	Mr President, I would like to Looking out over the country, it seems to me that people who are educated benefit from it, because on average educated people have higher wages and higher living standards than people who have not trained. It can also be seen that there is a high search pressure at the Swedish universities. Why is the downsizing of the job tax credit good? Abolishing the tapered job tax deduction would: The increased income inequality is an effect that would remain. The extent to which tax revenues would not be as much lower in the long term as in the first few years is very uncertain. We therefore know two things: less money here and now and a worse distribution profile. There are two arguments for keeping it.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-235	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is facing serious problems. One should not be caught up in the very negative descriptions that often occur on social media, where it is said that Sweden is mismanaged or mismanaged. But the correct description is as soon as possible that Sweden is unspoiled. No one really steps forward and takes responsibility for the situation that prevails in Sweden. It is about crime on our streets, grossly organised crime that feeds on security, welfare that does not deliver what it is set to do and public finances that do not reach the strength needed to face crises in the economy. It is a tax policy that seems more to be about making different political parties happy rather than really ensuring that we have strong public finances, secure financing of welfare and the right kinds of driving forces. It also has consequences when the country is unspoiled. Beyond the acute problems, we also see that our long-term conditions are deteriorating. The Minister of Finance is responsible for one country – or at least ultimately responsible for the public finances of one country – which is predicted to have the lowest economic growth in the European Union as a whole next year. Mr President, I would like to This is not a coincidence. This is because it is a government and a government period with Stefan Löfven that goes to history as Sweden's first completely structural reformless period, where nothing or at least very little has been done to enable Swedish jobs and Swedish growth to take off in order for more people to get a job to go to. The government has leaned completely towards a boom and has done nothing to make the country fundamentally perform stronger. This will lead to major problems in the future.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-239	Mr President, I would like to Structural reforms, says Niklas Wykman. You know what this is about when the Moderates talk about structural reforms. It is tax cuts that are called structural reforms. All tax cuts that want to give the most to those who earn the most are referred to as structural reforms. I am a strong advocate of structural reforms, but I see that there are other structures that need to be changed instead of only high-income people getting additional money. I see great needs in childcare, school, health care and care for the elderly. That is why we contributed EUR 35 billion in the last parliamentary term, and we will add a further billion in this. I see a great need to upgrade the Swedish infrastructure, roads and railways. That is why we have presented the largest infrastructure plan with the most resources ever. I see that the Swedish business community is screaming for more competence. This is why we are carrying out a great leap in knowledge and are expanding the education widely – folk high school, komvux, yrkesvux, sfi, colleges and universities of applied sciences. Everywhere we go, we're building up. These are important structural reforms, and everything is based on sound public finances. Unlike when Niklas Wykman sat on the Ministry of Finance and lowered the tax with borrowed money, we are carrying out these important structural reforms with money that we have in hand. Order and order and important structural reforms—that's what this government has done.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-244	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me whether I intend to clarify whether and why, in more than 20 years, 700 000 coordination numbers have been issued, of which only 150 000 have been translated into personal identity numbers, and whether I also intend to make it criminal for persons with coordination numbers to be written at the wrong address. The question is based on the erroneous notion that a person assigned a coordination number is registered in the country. A person with a coordination number is not resident in Sweden according to the criteria of the Population Accounts Act and never has been. However, there may be an address registered for the person. The address is a contact information and does not need to be the person's residence address. A coordination number is not a temporary social security number, and the fact that a person has been assigned a coordination number does not constitute a first step towards the person being registered as a resident. On the contrary, the data provided by Mikael Oscarsson himself shows that the vast majority of persons with coordination numbers are not registered in the country. It is also a common misconception that a person can open a bank account only by having a coordination number and that the person is automatically entitled to payments from the welfare system or to health care in Sweden. A coordination number does not confer any rights or benefits in itself. The fact that someone has been assigned a coordination number does not mean that the person has the right to enter the country or to stay here. There is no link between an assigned coordination number and the person's right to work here. A coordination number is not a work permit, and an employer who hires someone who does not have the right to work in Sweden can be sentenced for it. Co-ordination numbers, on the other hand, fulfil an important function by meeting the needs of authorities for an identifier for persons who are not or have been registered in Sweden. In addition, the function of the coordination numbers has become important for people who are staying in Sweden for a not very short time and who have a strong need for an identifier in order to manage their everyday lives. However, the system currently has shortcomings, which include incomplete identity checks, and it is necessary to tighten up the rules. The Government has therefore set up an investigation to investigate and propose, among other things, a safer coordination number system to meet the needs of both individuals and other actors of a reliable and useful identifier for persons who are not or have been registered in the public register. In parallel with the commission of the investigation, work is also ongoing within the Government Office, which aims to urgently address certain shortcomings in the coordination number system.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-251	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is an important issue. The coordination number is a way of identifying oneself in contact with Swedish authorities, but it does not apply as valid identification. It can be published if, for example, you cannot prove your identity when applying for a work permit during the period of asylum or if you as a foreign citizen are to work here for a limited period of time. It is then obtained for tax reasons. It is the Swedish Tax Agency that issues the number, but it can also be requested from other authorities or educational institutes. For example, the police can give it to a person who is sentenced to punishment and does not have a social security number. The coordination numbers are valid in principle forever; they are not removed. Unlike with regard to the assignment of personal identity numbers, no personal presence is required. Coordination numbers can be misused and used in money laundering schemes. This is the problem I have been interested in. I have asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to produce data, and it has turned out that more than 1 million coordination numbers have been issued in 20 years. The rate is approximately 240 coordination numbers per working day. Of these 1 million coordination numbers, approximately 150 000 have turned into social security numbers. That leaves well over half a million numbers. According to the police and the Swedish Tax Agency, the problem is so extensive that it has created a shadow society where foreign citizens not only through this but also in combination with other things can work, pay taxes and gain access to various benefits in society illegally. I recommend the Government to read a report from the Swedish Tax Agency from 2017. It says that the person working in Sweden is entitled to work-based benefits regardless of whether the person has a personal or coordination number and whether the person comes from an EU country or a third country. Examples of work-based benefits are sickness benefit, parental benefit based on income, temporary parental benefit in the care of children and family members' allowance and so on. The police say that this is part of an organised crime that costs society huge amounts of money annually. The origin of my commitment came in spring 2017. It was then an article in UNT that was about a person stopped on E4, and it turned out that the person in question had 1.1 million in debt and over 1 000 p-buckles and other car debts. You couldn't do anything because he hadn't misparked. He had to keep driving. There is a report, which I also recommend to the Government to read. It came three years ago and is precisely about coordination numbers and criminality. It is a question of writing thousands of cars on coordination numbers. In this report, which was handed over to the government three years ago, the police say that a limit of one car should be set per coordination number. First of all, it is a concrete question: can the government consider setting such a limit?
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-261	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mikael Oscarsson for raising this issue in an interpellation debate. That is an important issue. There is also a great deal to be made clear, as there are obviously very many misconceptions about what the coordination number is. There is no need for personal cancellation when you get a coordination number. One might wonder if there are times when it should be needed, but there are obviously times when it is not appropriate. Personal cancellation is based on the person wanting a coordination number. There may be many situations where an authority needs a coordination number in order to have an identifier on a person who does not want to interact. For example, it may be a person who is suspected of a crime. If this were not the case, it would make things more difficult for some authorities. It is important to know the background to the fact that we have these coordination numbers. This is because it makes it easier for authorities to have a personal identifier. And one of the reasons is precisely to reduce opportunities for crime. Then there was the number of cars. There is an investigation that looks at how to work against car targets. It's important work. It's not being led by me, though. It's being led by the Ministry of Enterprise. There is a lot of crime in Sweden. It's black work. People work even though they do not have a work permit. We've got a problem with car targets. There are people who are in Sweden to commit crimes or to work black. It's a big problem. However, the question is: is it coordination numbers that create this problem? No, it's not. Unfortunately, many of these people would certainly continue to be in Sweden working black or committing crimes even if they did not have a coordination number. I think it is important to include this in the debate. We work intensively at the Ministry of Finance to tighten up the regulatory framework for coordination numbers, but we cannot sit back on it. The problems will also remain with a tightening up of the regulatory framework for coordination numbers. The work done by the police with workplace controls and intensified work against crime must be carried out with exactly the same intensity even when we have better measures regarding the distribution of coordination numbers. It is important to point out, even after Mikael Oscarsson's last speech, that a coordination number is not a work permit. The employer who has misunderstood this and believes that a coordination number is a work permit should immediately check all his staff to ensure that they have a work permit. Otherwise, the employer risks being convicted in a court of law.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-269	Mr President, I would like to I'll say something about coordination numbers and cars. It was a report that showed that 500 temporary social security numbers owned 30,000 cars. There was a new search at the beginning of the year, and by then it had increased by 30 percent. So there are people who own over 3 000 cars. The report came in 2016 from the National Operations Department. I raised it in May of June 2017. At that time, the minister who was then responsible said that this should be dealt with. It was supposed to be arranged. It turned out that it is only now, three years later, that an investigation has been set up. And it, Mr President, will be ready in two years' time. This is a long bench that only helps one group, and it is precisely organised crime. If you die in Sweden, the personal identity number no longer applies. But now I'm going to read inside the IRS information. It says that a coordination number can do that and live forever. You look at a suggestion that the coordination number should be completed at the age of 105. This is unreasonable. There may be a new religion in Sweden. Apparently, you can move here and live forever. This is naive, and it must change. Then there's another thing. I live in Uppsala, and I assume the Minister of Finance lives in Stockholm. Let's say one of us would come up with the idea of signing up in Korpilombolo it's certainly a nice place. If you live at the same time – in my case it would be in Uppsala, and in the case of the Minister of Finance it might be in Stockholm – it is a violation of the Population Accounts Act. You can't do that. However, for people living in Sweden who have registered at an address, that rule does not exist. It should be the same. There is an address in Hässelby – it has become widely known – where at the moment 500 people have signed up. The person who runs this takes 200 kroner a month. It'll be $100,000 a month, the way he benefits from it. This drives crime – that's just the way it is. Many also become victims. This, Mr President, is like pouring energy drink on crime and crime. We can't change it with a club team, but we can do a lot of things. One thing is to make sure that you can't stay in one place and let the mail come to another place. Many of these people then become victims. When they may be moving from here, the owner can either throw away the mail or start using these coordination numbers himself and start registering for example cars or companies. If this is not a problem, I wonder: Why is it such a demand? So this is something that is advertised on Blocket. There is a huge demand for these coordination numbers. You should do what you do in Norway. Five years have been said in Norway. If you go to America, you can fill out an ESTA application. That's for two years. It can be two years or five years but not like in Sweden – here it is for all eternity. We can act. We can do something. I think the acceptance of simply saying that it needs to be investigated is rather small. Look at the neighboring countries! Do something and make Sweden less attractive to work in for organised crime! It would be a welcome Christmas present to the Swedish people.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-280	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important that we do not contribute to further confusion about the discussion on coordination numbers. For example, a coordination number is not a temporary social security number, as Mikael Oscarsson says. I think it risks undermining or further adding to the confusion that exists if you say so. It may also cause people, employers and others, to think that a coordination number is something that it really is not. I would like to ask Mikael Oscarsson not to call it a temporary social security number, which it is not. Then it applies to those who have a coordination number and who have a contact address linked to that coordination number. The purpose of this is not to live there, it is a place where authorities can send mail. If, on the other hand, you live in Sweden for a long time, you should be registered. Many of the people who have a coordination number and a contact address linked to that coordination number probably don't live in Sweden at all, but somewhere else. How can 500 people be registered at the same address? Yes, if it is a company that hires foreign workers, for example, it does not seem unreasonable that the workforce has that company's address as its contact address. Then it may be all right. If, on the other hand, it is a private person who has 500 coordination numbers linked to his address, it seems strange, and the police should immediately investigate it. I am pleased to see that the police have conducted investigations in relation to addresses where there appear to be no companies and with which very many coordination numbers are linked. Then it may be about people who are staying in Sweden and who do not do so on the right basis. The question is why there is a demand for a coordination number given that such a number does not even give the right to stay in Sweden. I am afraid that there seems to be a great confusion about what a coordination number is. There is a risk that employers have believed that a coordination number is a temporary social security number and that an address linked to a coordination number means that the person is registered here and has the right to reside in the country. Therefore, the whole debate that has been very good in that it gives the opportunity to clarify that a coordination number does not give anyone the right to stay or work in Sweden or anything else, for that matter. Mikael Oscarsson has a point when he wonders why we have these coordination numbers forever. I have also asked myself this question. It is one of the things we have the opportunity to look at. It is not that we on the part of the Ministry of Finance and the authorities have not done anything about the coordination numbers. During my time, the IRS has gained increased resources. One thing they have done is to train other authorities in how to check identifiers. A specific application has been developed to ensure that you cannot use the same ID document to obtain multiple coordination numbers. In addition, we have written directives for the investigation that reviews the whole system of coordination. At the Ministry of Finance, we are also working on a fast track to be able to come up with new proposals in the near future to tighten up the management around the coordination numbers.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-287	Madam President, I would like We therefore have a situation in which approximately 240 new coordination numbers are issued per day. Border police also say that ghost people use the Swedish system. In UNT you can read about a 63-year-old in Gottsunda who owns 676 cars, a person with a coordination number. If the Minister is interested, I have here a list of those who have the most cars. Many of them have coordination numbers. With regard to the address in question, the media have concluded that there is a person living there who, by changing ownership of cars and using the back door of the Swedish Transport Agency, has managed to obtain 1 000 new coordination numbers. So this is too easy. Several authorities ask, Madam President, for an electronic sensor to be used when, for example, there are more than 10 or 15 people living at a single address. Then you could knock on the door and ask what it's really like. Even at Transportstyrelsen it should be able to plange into the system – here is a person who has not one or two but several hundred cars registered with the coordination number. Then you have to be able to act. Here we need to set limits and ensure that it is time-limited. The Tax Agency should also be given the opportunity to remove anyone who cannot prove that they exist and can legitimise themselves. For the rest, Madam President, we must also give customs opportunities when they see stolen goods coming from outside the country. We must act against theft gangs and international crime.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-292	Madam President, I would like There are several things we need to do in terms of coordination numbers. I believe that the most important thing is to increase the level of knowledge in society about what a coordination number is, so that no employer or anyone working in a health centre or anywhere else believes that a coordination number gives a person the right to reside in the country, to work, to open a bank account or to have access to health care or other social benefits. A coordination number does not give any right to this at all. Against this background, I welcome this debate but also the writings that have been on coordination numbers. The second thing we need to do is to tighten up the management of coordination numbers. There has been a great deal. Not least, the Swedish Tax Agency has tried to educate other authorities that have clearly had shortcomings in their handling and where, according to reports, there seem to be some shortcomings left. An authority must identify a person before ordering a coordination number. In other cases, it may be important to have an identifier on a person even if the person himself does not want it, for example if you are a criminal suspect. In other words, personal cancellation and other matters that require the person to participate are not appropriate in all cases. This requires a further tightening up. We have done some things, and further proposals come, both in the short and long term. However, we should not be naive and believe that, if there are no coordination numbers, we will get rid of some of the crime perpetrated today by people with coordination numbers. It won't be like that. Even after a tightening up of personal identity numbers, a job from the police and our authorities is required to stop crime, not least workplace inspections to ensure that people who are not entitled to stay in Sweden and do not have work permits are also not found in our workplaces and are exploited.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-297	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me if there are climate gains in introducing distance-based taxes or charges for heavy goods vehicles. He has also asked me whether I intend to initiate such taxes or charges and whether Sweden has been working in the negotiations on the Eurovignette Directive to phase out time-based charges for heavy goods vehicles. A distance-based tax has the potential to be part of an effective and long-term sustainable transport policy, where the user of roads also pays for the socio-economic costs generated by traffic, such as costs of environmental loading and road wear. A distance-based ystem can also increase the possibilities for controlling heavy road transport. The current Eurovignette fee for freight transport should be maintained for as long as possible. In the meantime, a new environmental management system will be investigated. The Swedish position in the negotiations on the Eurovignette Directive is that the pricing rules should be laid down by the individual Member States. The choice between time-based tolls and distance-based tolls shall be up to each Member State. The government has, of course, acted in accordance with the position.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-301	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to my interpellation, which concerns distance-based taxation on heavy goods vehicles. This is an important issue because we know that the transport sector is contributing significant emissions in Sweden – one third of our total emissions. A significant and strongly growing proportion comes precisely from heavy transport. More and more goods are transported by lorries on the road instead of the more sustainable alternative by rail or by sea. We are in a climate crisis and must do much more than what has been decided so far if we are to achieve our climate goals and save the planet from uncontrolled and dangerous global warming. I would like to remind you that the government had a memorandum drawn up with proposals in this area during the last parliamentary term, when it worked with us in the Left Party. This proposal was precisely about taxing heavy goods vehicles in order to get money that could be used for, for example, climate work. The memo, which proposed the introduction of such a tax, also said that it would bring competitive advantages for rail and maritime transport if road transport became more expensive. There was also talk of the possibility of improving the order of professional traffic on our roads. This is an area where, unfortunately, there is much social dumping today. Thousands of trucks come from other countries, over which we do not have control. With this mileage tax, all road transporters would be taxed equally and enter the automatic readable system. There are simply clear climate and social benefits from a climate tax on the way. Recently, there was also a report from the IVL Swedish Environmental Institute comparing various instruments to reduce emissions from heavy traffic in Sweden. It states that a kilometre tax on heavy goods transport is the most effective means of reducing emissions. In reply to me, Madam President, the Finance Minister says that we should instead use the so-called Eurovignette system for as long as possible. However, the EU's Eurovignette system is not about distance-based taxation that is clearly climate-regulating, but rather a fixed-term taxation of heavy transport. Why does the Minister of Finance advocate this system? The Minister of Finance also refers to the appointment of an investigation into how to implement environmental management systems on heavy traffic. Why investigate this issue again, Magdalena Andersson, when we actually have a ready-made proposal that the government produced in 2018? Why ignore the most effective means of reducing emissions from heavy transport in Sweden?
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-309	Madam President, I would like The report from IVL, Transport Study 2019– Analysis of measures for a sustainable transport sector is based on a variety of instruments and measures to reduce the climate impact of traffic. Kilometer tax is one such instrument that is highlighted. However, this is far from the only thing, but it points out that there is a wide range of instruments that can be used to reduce climate impact. Just as Jens Holm says, we developed a memorandum before the election 2018. But as I said before the election. In the January agreement, we have been clear that we want the Eurovignette for freight to be kept for as long as possible, while at the same time investigating a new environmental governance system. Right now we are discussing what the investigation directives should look like. The issue is therefore being prepared in the Government Office, and I look forward to being able to present these investigative directives as soon as possible. It is clear that we need to increase environmental governance when it comes to our heavy transport, and I would like to see more work also being done on what Jens Holm also points out, namely the major problem of unfair competition and sometimes even illegal cabotage operations that we know exist in Sweden. There, we have increased the possibilities for what is called clapping and also provided resources to train more police officers. In addition, we have a study to develop proposals for more effective control of professional traffic. A new environmental governance system could help to facilitate such controls, and I believe that I and Jens Holm have exactly the same ambition in this regard. We should not have unhealthy competition or illegal activities in Sweden.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-313	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by commenting on what the Minister of Finance said about the report by the Swedish Environmental Institute. It is absolutely true that the Minister for Finance says that the researchers in that report compared several different instruments for reducing emissions from the transport sector. However, they noted that a kilometre tax or a road wear charge, or whatever you call it, is the most effective way to reduce emissions from heavy transport in Sweden. Does the Minister of Finance mean that the scientists did not come to that conclusion but simply said that this was one in a variety of instruments that all have roughly the same effect? That is not at all what they said, but they just said that the mileage tax, the road wear charge, is the most effective means of control. Therefore, I would like to ask once again: why does the government choose not to use the most effective instrument in this area? Moreover, the government has in practice a ready-made proposal, a memorandum, which makes a proposal for a kilometre tax or a road wear charge to reduce emissions in this area. This memorandum has been referred, and a number of different actors have recorded their responses. I note that the Swedish Transport Agency, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, Trafikanalys and the entire environmental movement think this is a good proposal. Then the government could do exactly what they said in 2018: bake up these referrals, come up with a specialization proposal and present it to the Riksdag. That is what the government has chosen not to do, and I must say that I find it puzzling. I'm disappointed in that. I would also like to ask the Minister about the Eurovignette Directive. One can say that the Eurovignette Directive, as it works today, means that we charge a flat-rate charge every year on lorries driving in Sweden. It is not related to how far you drive, so it does not steer towards shorter transport and reduced emissions. That is exactly what the Finance Minister's memo also mentioned: that we should work to change the Eurovignette Directive so that it moves towards becoming a distance-based tool. I am therefore very surprised to hear the Minister for Finance say that Sweden is working to keep the Eurovignette Directive in its current form for as long as possible. Is it Swedish climate policy anno 2019? I really hope not. Madam President, I would like In this is the most climate-smart way to transport goods shipping or by rail. Maritime transport pays fairway fees and pilotage fees. Trains pay so-called rail charges for every kilometre that they drive on Swedish railways. The climate-smart options or tools therefore pay fees. However, when it comes to the rapidly increasing rail transport on our roads, they do not pay any charges based on how far they drive on our roads, how much they emit and how much they work on the roads. I find that odd, and basically it is a totally unsustainable system. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Finance: why should you re-examine this when you have a ready-made proposal? Why not use the most efficient tool, which is a kilometre tax, a road wear charge, on heavy transport?
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-322	Madam President, I would like I'll admit I haven't read the IVL report myself, which I don't think Jens Holm believed either. The conclusion drawn by those at the Ministry of Finance who have read the report is that it does not say anywhere in the report that such a tax would lead to the greatest reduction in emissions. Now Jens Holm is talking about the most effective tax, so I will bring Jens Holm's argumentation to the Ministry of Finance and hear what they say about it. It's gonna be exciting. We may have the opportunity to discuss this at some other time. The position that we have represented in the EU in relation to the Eurovignette is that which is anchored here in Parliament, and that is that there should be a voluntary approach for the countries in question if you want it time- or distance-based. That question is well known to Jens Holm if not better than I; this is Tomas Eneroth's question rather than mine. I have a question for Jens Holm. A little over a week ago, the Left Party threatened a minister with a motion of censure if she did not stop a proposal for which there was no majority in parliament, even before she came forward with a proposal on the proposal. Jens Holm is now standing in the speaker's chair and calls on me to put forward a proposal that we know there is no majority for in Parliament. What is the logic of this?
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-326	Madam President, I would like First of all, I think it is good that the Minister for Finance admits that she has not read the Swedish Environmental Institute's investigation. I think she should go home and do it. There she will see that the most effective means of reducing emissions from heavy goods vehicles is a kilometre tax, also known as road wear charge. I do not think that I am really getting a clear message about the government's position on the Eurovignette Directive. If you are to steer towards reduced emissions, we need a distance-based instrument, that is, the longer you drive, the more fee or tax you pay to the state. We should not have a flat-rate or time-based system, which exists today. In fact, I believe that it is important for the government to be clear. The Minister says that a new environmental management system will be investigated. I would therefore like to ask the Minister: what role will the memo that was produced last year, if precisely distance-based taxation of heavy goods transport, play in that investigation? Or what kind of investigation is it that one should try to invent the wheel again and come up with completely new instruments? As far as the Minister's last question is concerned, it is up to the government to obtain a majority for its policy. I am disappointed that the concrete proposal on kilometre tax was not put forward during the previous term of office. That is exactly what the government promised at the time. Now we have to come up with a proposal that is geared towards reducing emissions, and I look forward to that.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-330	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm is well aware that neither during the previous term of office nor during this term of office was there a majority in Parliament for the proposal contained in that memorandum. Jens Holm is also well aware that during the last parliamentary term, spring 2017, there was a majority in the Riksdag that threatened me with a motion of censure if I went ahead with three other proposals for which there was no majority in the Riksdag. The Left Party was then very upset that these parties acted in this way, but now the Left Party acts in exactly the same way. The question remains, of course, why it was completely wrong to call on a certain minister not to present a proposal that was not supported in Parliament – before it was even presented – while at the same time urging me to do just that. It doesn't seem to me to be a perfect logic. However, the government shares Jens Holm's concerns about the emissions from heavy truck traffic. This is a major problem, and if we are to achieve reductions in emissions in Sweden, we need to reduce emissions in the entire transport sector – including from heavy traffic – and then we need better environmental governance than we do today. That is exactly why we want to investigate this. Precisely what the design of that investigation should be and what role the previously developed investigations should play in it is not yet decided, but it is something we are discussing. I look forward to being able to come back when the investigation directives are ready. Hopefully I will have additional exciting interpellation debates with Jens Holm on this.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-333	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me whether I believe that the scheme for the payment of survivors' pensions to children born abroad is reasonable and, if not, what I intend to do to change today's situation. Let me first say that maintaining the trust and legitimacy of our social security policies is a top priority for the government. All children who are regarded as residing, and thus insured, in Sweden are entitled to subsistence. Of course, it is primarily the parents who have a maintenance obligation until the child reaches the age of 18, or until the child turns 21 if it is still in upper secondary school or equivalent. Where, for various reasons, one or both parents fail to meet this obligation, there are several benefits that give the child the right to financial support for subsistence. Financial assistance is the ultimate safety net of welfare systems and a complement to general schemes with shorter supply problems. Children who live in this country and who grow up without living with their parents are guaranteed through the survivor's allowance, or maintenance allowance, a reasonable livelihood. For children where the deceased parent comes from one of the few countries where death certificate is not available, the opportunity is given to still make likely that the parent is deceased. The Pension Authority cooperates with, among other things, the Migration Agency to make an individual assessment of the total basis before a decision. Survivors' benefits are provided in addition to or in place of an orphan's pension and are intended to ensure a minimum level of protection for a child in the event of a parent's death, i.e. to guarantee a minimum reasonable standard of living. For a child who comes to Sweden, survivor's allowance can only be provided when the child is insured in Sweden, i.e. when the child is considered a resident of Sweden and has been granted a residence permit. Therefore, nationality or country of birth are not decisive for the possibility of survivor's support. The Swedish Parliament has made it known that the Government should return to the Riksdag with a proposal that survivors' support that requires the application can be submitted for a maximum of one month before the application date, and that the Government should investigate whether survivors' support should be provided to children living in HVB homes or similar (bet. 2017/ 18:SfU27 paragraph 2, rskr. 2017/ 18:329). In the budget proposal for 2020, in Category 12, the Government has proposed a change in the retroactivity of survivors' payments. With this proposal for a limitation to one month's retroactivity, the Government considers that the announcement in this part is satisfied and thus finalised. As regards the part of the Notice relating to survivors' payments to children living in HVB homes or similar homes, the Government intends to return. There is a need for more knowledge about survivors' benefits and the importance of other social security benefits when children are placed outside their own home. The Government intends to acquire such knowledge and investigate the question of whether there is a need for possible legislative changes.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-340	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. In two reports that I have ordered from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, it appears that large amounts are paid in survivors' pensions to foreign born unaccompanied children with allegedly deceased parents in their home country. In total, over SEK 1.3 billion has been paid in such survivor's pension to children born abroad and young people over the past ten years. In addition, annual payments have more than doubled between 2013 and 2018. In 2018, a total of 11,000 foreign-born children and young people up to 20 years of age received a total of 200 million survivors' pensions paid from the Swedish State. Much of the children came from a few countries; two thirds of the money went to children from Somalia, Afghanistan, Syria, Iraq and Iran, as well as to children and young people who do not have a country of birth. The reports from RUT also show that most of the survivors' pension paid to children born abroad and young people refers to deceased parents who have never lived in Sweden and where the data are based on a form with their own confirmation that the parents in their home country are deceased. It also turns out that in these cases the deceased parents have never stayed in Sweden at all. Moreover, in most cases, it is unlikely that the responsible authority will be able to verify whether the information on the deceased parents is correct. That the Swedish state pays out hundreds of millions of Swedish taxpayers' money each year in this way, almost completely out of control, is almost incomprehensible. I find it outrageous, especially as the state is saving on other things – for example assistance to severely ill people living in Sweden. My question to the Government was whether he believes that this system is reasonable or not and what he intends to do to change today's situation. Unfortunately, from the answer, I conclude that the Government considers the present system to be essentially reasonable and that the adjustments mentioned in the answer are sufficient. On the contrary, I think that the whole approach is wrong. A single child or youth who comes to Sweden is already fully supported by Swedish tax funds. In addition to this, paying out survivors' benefits in various forms, for deceased parents who have never lived or worked in Sweden, is unreasonable. Nor is that the purpose of the regulations – the child is not dependent on his or her parents for his or her livelihood. I can also say that there are not a few cases from a few countries that are dealt with in this way, with only one form. On the contrary, according to the parliamentary investigation service, as much as 1.1 billion of the total of 1.3 billion paid in the last ten years has been based precisely on a self-certification on a form. Basically all this money comes with that background. The Government replied that the Swedish Pension Agency and the Finnish Immigration Service are working together to make an individual assessment of the total basis for decisions. I am very curious about how this is done, because the information I have received says that in practice no checks can be made at all, but generally goes on the task that the child himself leaves. These are countries where such things are very difficult to investigate. There's no civil records, there's no death certificate. There's nothing. You simply have to trust the child's own duties. The Government's task of controlling the data is interesting. I would therefore like to ask whether the Government can explain in more detail how this control is carried out. I would also like to ask the Government whether I have understood this correctly: is it the case that he sees no need for a fundamental change in the survivor's pension scheme in addition to the two corrections mentioned in the answer given just now?
i-4UWNQJUy5yfBDrWaDX6HBE	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jan Ericson, for this interpellation and for the question! It is extremely important that we focus on the work of maintaining trust in Swedish social security, maintaining citizens' confidence in our systems and ensuring order and order. Against this background, the government put energy and time into ensuring that we changed the rules on the retroactivity of these aids. The Parliament has made decisions – the law will enter into force on 1 January, and the retroactivity will then decrease to one month. The next step is to address the issue of placed children and to identify as quickly as possible whether there are things that need to be done and whether there are shortcomings in the legislation. As soon as we identify those shortcomings, we shall bring in new legislation and adjust it. Do we need to continue working on this issue? Yes, of course. The responsibility of the Government and the Riksdag is to keep an ongoing eye on our social security policies and to act when we find that there are elements in our social security policies that conflict with the principles that should apply to our social security policies. The Parliament has pointed out two areas. The first area has therefore been dealt with, and the law will enter into force on 1 January. The second area we are dealing with right now, and we will be dealing with this issue as a matter of urgency. The government is serious about us maintaining trust in our social security policies. An important part is to strengthen our social security systems, to ensure that the errors that have occurred following the legislative changes that took place after the change of power in 2006 and to ensure that people really have access to financial security in the event of illness. Another part is to remove any shortcomings in legislation that mean that we receive a payment of social security benefits that is contrary to the general legal awareness of our country. I will focus on this. The government will focus on this. If there is a will in this House to go further than the announcement addressed to the government in this area, then Parliament should also act so that we can help each other and resolve this together.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-357	Madam President, I would like In fact, it is now Ardalan Shekarabi who is the minister and that it is the government that is responsible for the issues. It is a good thing that the Riksdag can make an announcement, but it is not that there is any obstacle for the Government to initiate legislation itself. After all, that is the normal thing in Swedish democracy; it is not the case that the Government should come to Parliament and ask the Riksdag to make an announcement. We would be happy to, but it should not be a precondition for this. I note that there are two absurdities and injustices in this system. The first is that it is so easy to sign out a survivor's pension without any control of whether death has actually occurred. A Swedish citizen would never receive a survivor's pension without proving the death. The second is that a young person can go to Sweden and more or less directly after having been granted a residence permit have survivors' pension paid for allegedly deceased parents in their home country, until now also retroactively – it is good that that part is changed. Quite regardless of the possibility of control, this is obviously unreasonable, and this has never been the purpose of our Swedish survivors' pension scheme. Unaccompanied children or young people from Somalia or Afghanistan, for example, are not dependent on parents in their home country for their livelihood, but are already supported by Swedish taxpayers when they come here. This means that it is quite unreasonable to pay survivors' pension in addition to all other benefits. It is also unreasonable for survivors' pensions to be paid for deceased people who have completely no connection with Sweden and who have never paid any money into our system. Sweden cannot be the whole world's ATM that you can only come here and collect money from. Today we see great breaks in Swedish welfare – today's government invests money on just everything except the welfare and municipalities. The government's policy is already hitting the most vulnerable. We remember the cuts in assistance for the disabled, which were a direct consequence of the government's instructions. We also see how the government saves on state subsidies for elderly care, for example, which leads to reductions in our municipalities. The fact that children born abroad and young people at the same time can only sign a form and receive large sums of money paid in survivors' pensions is totally horrifiable. I believe that a survivor's pension is a benefit that should normally only be given as a Swedish citizen, and only if you lose a parent who has supported you in Sweden. In addition, each death must, of course, be proven in a reliable way in order for a survivor's pension to be paid. The fact that a young person can only get a large amount of money paid in a survivor's pension through a signature on paper is simply incredibly gullible. Nevertheless, I note that the Government at least says that he is willing to look further at this issue. Hopefully, I have drawn attention to some other issues that have not been included in the debate before. Precisely for trust in the social security system, as the Government mentioned, it is extremely important that you do not feel that there is an injustice in the system where we place higher demands on people who live in Sweden than we do on people who come here.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-368	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise that the Government and Parliament have a shared responsibility. On these issues, we will work together. Here it is not a question of the parliament balling responsibility to the government and of the government balling responsibility to the parliament, but we work together. We are representatives of national politics in our country. If the Riksdag points to a problem, it is the Government's responsibility to deal with it. Is it the case that the government points to a problem, this House also has a responsibility to cooperate so that we solve the problem? That will be my perspective in this work. If we are to maintain the social contract in our society, we must maintain trust in our social security policies. I think it is a good thing that Jan Ericson is committed to this issue, but I also call for a commitment to the issues relating to the health insurance that was dismantled by Jan Ericson's party. It is a good thing that we are taking action to ensure that any degeneratives contained in our system are removed, but it is also reasonable to ensure that the sick person has the right to financial security. It is perhaps also time for the moderate Member of Parliament to admit that the changes in social security that were pushed through after the change of power in 2006 are still hurting people in our country. That is why all Members of this House, regardless of whether they are members of the Moderate Coalition Party or of the Social Democrats, should stand up and say: now we are changing health insurance! We'll get hold of any degeneratives! As I said, the first change is already on 1 January. Let us also ensure that the people who are in health insurance – who are insured in our country Sweden – have the right to financial security when they fall ill. Sometimes, Madam President, it is good to turn to the House and admit that mistakes have been made. In the area of social security, mistakes have been made, and now it is time to correct this. Jan Ericson! Feel free to combine the commitment to this issue, which is welcome, with a commitment to our health insurance and a commitment to the disabled, who depend on the financial support of our social security. I can promise Jan Ericson that the Government will focus on these issues, because the Riksdag and the Government have a common interest in maintaining trust in our systems.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-376	Madam President, I would like I note that the Council of State has increased its tone a little now. I find it a little remarkable that a minister crouchs behind the Riksdag and says that if the Riksdag does not come with orders to the Government, nothing happens from the Government. In fact, that is basically what the Government said. I find this remarkable, and it shows that the government needs to be replaced. Health insurance reform was a very successful reform. All the evaluations have shown that the reform made by the Alliance was very good. If Ardalan Shekarabi thinks it was so very bad, it is very strange that almost everything that was included in that reform is still standing and still being defended by this government. I guess that suggests we did a pretty good job. In fact, state resources are not infinite. Yesterday we had a long budget debate on the strained economy of the local government sector. There I noted that the Moderates add 50 percent more to the municipalities and welfare than the government does, and we manage Moderates by prioritising that. If you handle tax money carelessly, you will eventually have no resources at all for what is important for those living in our country. The Government talks about how important it is to invest in health insurance, support for disabled people and more. Then I can remind the Government of the tours around Försäkringskassan, who claimed that they had received guidelines from the government to tighten up the assessments in health insurance, which were much harder than those that were during the Alliance's time. I can also recall how the government is now being forced to resort to emergency measures to solve the problems of the LSS. This government has withdrawn LSS support for the most needy children. I do not think that the Government has much to boast about on these issues, to be honest. As far as survivors' pensions are concerned, we cannot give priority to survivors' pensions for children born abroad to allegedly deceased parents, while at the same time cutting back support for disabled people living in our country. It is indecent, and the Government should realise that.
i-QK4JXszUFCa5bqPiENRZ6s	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jan Ericson, for the interpellation and for a clarification debate! We will focus on this issue. All I have said is that I want to cooperate with Parliament on this matter. I do not want to turn to the Swedish people nor to the Riksdag and pass on the responsibility, but let us work together to resolve this situation. I want to correct Jan Ericson, who said that the government is behind the deterioration of health insurance that was carried out after the change of power in 2006. That's not true. Soon we'll have an investigation on our desk about the right to sickness benefit. We will act to improve the right to sickness benefit, so that people get real financial security in case of illness. Soon we will start work on the right to sickness benefit, which is currently the most stringent legislation for the elderly in OECD countries. We will also address the issue of the right to activity compensation. We are not behind deterioration. We're going to improve health insurance and social security. That is what Swedish citizens are entitled to. It must, of course, be combined with measures relating to the maintenance of the social security system. What we have discussed today is one of the areas on which we must focus. Otherwise, trust in our systems will fail. It damages the systems and ultimately damages the insured. Then we'll have systems that won't last. I will focus on these issues. I am pleased that the Parliament has now decided to implement, from 1 January, the amendment of the law that we have proposed with regard to retroactivity. We will follow up on the issue of placed children. There is also reason to look further at the other issues that are of a principled nature. I thank you for the debate and wish the President and the Member of Parliament a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-391	Madam President, I would like Mattias Bäckström Johansson has asked me if I am prepared to take the initiative for a hydrogen strategy for Sweden. Hydrogen is one of many components with the potential to contribute to electrification and thus the phasing out of fossil fuels. Today, hydrogen is mainly produced from fossil fuels, resulting in high greenhouse gas emissions. In the future, it will hopefully be produced with clean electricity. However, the process involves energy losses, so the possibility of exploiting really low electricity prices is likely to be central. The long-term investments made by R & D, as well as through the Industrial & Climate Studies programmes, already allow support for hydrogen technology, as in the Hybrid project for carbon-free steel production. Other examples that enable the development of hydrogen technology are the climate premium that can support fuel cell vehicles. I therefore do not currently see the need to initiate a specific hydrogen strategy.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-394	Madam President, I would like Hydrogen has great potential as an energy carrier and to contribute to a change in both industry and transport. As the Government says, Sweden has taken some initiatives. The Swedish Democrats have also welcomed the Hybrid initiative in order to produce steel without coal. There are also opportunities to buy fuel cell vehicles cheaper, for example. In a global context, however, these efforts are modest. We can compare with our neighbour Norway, which has a much more offensive agenda and strategy. Germany has initiated plans for up to 500 filling stations within a five-year period. Large industrialized countries such as South Korea and Japan with large car manufacturers are making huge efforts. The Summer Olympics, which will take place in Tokyo next year, will be in the presence of hydrogen. There will be an energy thinking behind the whole event focusing on hydrogen. The Olympic village will get its energy from hydrogen as an energy carrier. Buses transporting athletes to and from different facilities will be powered by hydrogen, and the Olympic torch will burn with hydrogen. By comparison, Sweden is far behind. There are many industrial applications beyond the transport sector, where there is already potential today to push fossil fuels away, such as back-up power, which today is almost exclusively fossil-based. In these areas, it is also considerably closer to being commercially viable. The Government says that hydrogen production today produces large greenhouse gas emissions. The intervention concerns the situation in Sweden. Perhaps it is the Government's view that this would also apply to the hydrogen produced in Sweden, which I do not share. Although developments in Sweden are modest, the Government does not intend to take any further action, make new initiatives or coordinate the efforts that exist within the framework of a strategy. My question is therefore, Madam President, whether I should interpret it as being satisfied with the current developments in hydrogen technology in Sweden.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-400	Madam President, I would like I am tempted to quote Göran Persson in this Chamber: ..................................................... We support hydrogen development in a number of different areas as I said in my interpellation response. However, when it comes to the passenger car side and the emissions from passenger car traffic in Sweden, we believe that pure electrification, in the short and medium-term perspective, has a much greater chance of making a powerful contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions than hydrogen technology has. This is partly due to the fact that hydrogen technology is not yet sufficiently developed and does not exist in enough vehicles, and partly because of the energy losses made in hydrogen production. But that does not mean that we do not take part in international developments. I was the first minister to sign the European hydrogen declaration, and Sweden is now a full member of that work. As Minister for Energy, of course, I will follow developments both in Sweden and in Europe and continue to contribute to the positive development of hydrogen. Although I do not see the great potential of the passenger car fleet in the short and medium term, there are many other areas where hydrogen can make a very positive contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. This applies not least to industrial applications. Sweden makes a very large contribution and is at the very forefront of development with the Hybrid project, where steel will be produced without coal. That is precisely where hydrogen will be energy carriers.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-404	Madam President, I would like As a small country, Sweden has less opportunity than large countries to develop technology for batteries and hydrogen for cars and may not be able to influence the direction or which technology will be the winning one. However, we also have nothing to gain by choosing one track and opting out another, which in practice is what is happening now. Few fuel cell vehicles roll in Sweden, and of course there is a connection to the fact that there are few possibilities to refuel them. Who does the government think will buy these vehicles if they cannot refuel? Now it is more one-sidedly opting for subsidies for fuel cell vehicles, but it is not given the same opportunity to build hydrogen filling stations. Sweden has a fossil-free power system for a long time, which also enables fossil-free production of hydrogen. There is also the possibility of producing hydrogen with nuclear power in the future, for example with radiolysis, thus combining hydrogen and electricity generation. The dilemma is to get vehicles bought because you can't refuel them and to get therefore want to build filling stations. Does the government not see a need for investment in infrastructure in order for technology to take off in Sweden?
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-408	Madam President, I would like The main reason why we see a modest proportion of hydrogen vehicles in Sweden is the price of these vehicles. Secondly, it is because we have a very modest infrastructure. However, Sweden has the highest number of electric cars throughout the European Union. Should we replace these electric cars with hydrogen cars, we would lose one third of our efficiency. It is up to three times less efficient to use electricity to make hydrogen to power cars than to drive cars with electricity directly. So we would have to produce three times as much electricity to power the same number of hydrogen cars as the number of electric cars. As long as hydrogen is not more cost-effective, i.e. cheaper, hydrogen will find it difficult to assert itself. Should we, however, see a positive development for hydrogen in terms of cost and efficiency, we will obviously have to take the initiative for the expansion of the hydrogen car infrastructure. It is true that hydrogen can be produced from electricity regardless of the power source used at the bottom: nuclear, wind, coal or other gas power. But this will only happen if the price of electricity is competitive. The advantage for Sweden is that we have it, and we also have something that very few other countries in the world have, namely a huge electricity surplus. During the first eleven months of this year, Sweden had a surplus of more than 24 terawatt hours, which was 2 terawatt hours more than we have ever produced in surplus. This means that during the first eleven months of this year we exported electricity equivalent to four Ringhal reactors of models 1 and 2. I imagine that this surplus will grow further, because according to the Swedish Energy Agency's forecasts, the electricity surplus is growing in Sweden despite Ringhals 2 being closed this year and Ringhals 1 next year. So we have electricity production. The question then is whether we should use this electricity production directly in our vehicles or whether we should go through hydrogen. So far it seems to be a better idea to use it directly in vehicles.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-415	Madam President, I would like Yes, Sweden currently has a large electricity surplus that we export. The Swedish Democrats believe, however, that Sweden should not subsidise industrialized countries in its neighbourhood but instead use electricity here. Let's see hydrogen as an opportunity. We are talking about different applications, and for heavier vehicles it is perhaps better to use hydrogen than battery. It is good that Sweden has signed the hydrogen declaration presented by Austria during its Presidency. At the same time, it is regrettable that it does not mean anything from the Swedish side because the government is not going to do more than the current modest efforts. The Swedish democrats see a great risk that Sweden will fall far behind in hydrogen technology and that the infrastructure needed for this technology to take effect will not happen. It is clear to us that there is a need for stronger work between several different actors, financial support for the technology and coordination in a hydrogen strategy to expand the infrastructure in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Finally, I thank the Government for the debate and wish you a Merry Christmas.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-420	Madam President, I would like I share the proposals for measures expressed by Mattias Bäckström Johansson. We do many of them today too. We participate with hundreds of millions of SEK in hydrogen development on both the automotive and industrial side. We do not subsidise industrialised countries in our vicinity with electricity exports. We export at market prices, and this is a good deal for Sweden. However, I can give Mattias Bäckström Johansson the right to use the growing electricity surplus in Sweden to import jobs to Sweden. Then perhaps the Hybrid project, which is also a hydrogen project, is a good model for that. With groundbreaking technology, we can produce steel without carbon dioxide and thereby strengthen our competitiveness in the world and attract more steel production. In this sense, I am happy to contribute to the use of both the electricity surplus and hydrogen technology to create new jobs in Sweden. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish the President and Mattias Bäckström Johansson a very happy Christmas and a happy new year.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-424	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what concrete measures I am taking on the basis of the current investigation, or otherwise, to strengthen road safety. The government's work on road safety is based on the n ollvision, where responsibility for road safety is shared between those who design and those who use the transport system. Swedish road safety work is successful. Road traffic death rates have halved since the turn of the millennium. The Government's decided cross-border national transport infrastructure plan for the period 2018–2029 involves an investment of over SEK 700 billion. This makes an important contribution to road safety, including through meeting separation of important road routes, maintenance efforts, trimming measures and research. Speed violations and drunk driving remain challenges. The government has strengthened road safety through measures such as sobriety checks in ports, stricter winter tyre regulations for heavy traffic and a ban on drivers while travelling using hand-held mobile telephones or other communication equipment held in hand. Sweden is a world leader in road safety, and the government continues to have a high priority in this work. Sweden, for example, hosts a global road safety conference in February 2020.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-429	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Tomas for his answer. Road safety is so much more than just speed. Road safety is a complex issue. Approximately 270 people a year are killed in Swedish road traffic. Every death in traffic is a loss, of course, for the victim and for family members and friends. It is also a loss to society. Last time we had an interpellation debate, we talked about speed violations, and I reacted to the Government's claim that it is professional traffic that is constantly driving fast and that does so more than other road users. It is true, at least according to the investigation that I have read, that there are parts of professional traffic that drive too fast, but not all. Many professional drivers drive at legal speed or even lower. Today there is a good follow-up in the haulage industry to see how the drivers are in terms of roll-out and how much the vehicles are used in terms of power and such things. Follow-up is continuous and monthly, and drivers who are well off are usually rewarded by the operator because they strive for a low energy consumption and a high level of safety in traffic. The vehicle itself constitutes an advertising pillar for the company. It is usually in capital letters on the vehicle where it comes from, and it becomes quite quickly a negative reference to the company if the vehicle is constantly seen at high speeds or is close to the vehicle in front or whatever it may be. I myself have worked with road safety for a long time, mostly throughout my working life, in different ways, either in voluntary organisations, in the defence or at the Motormännens Riksförbund. I have also worked 12 years at the traffic police and have seen in my daily life the consequences of traffic accidents and how they affect people, including us who are at the scene of the accident. You can't walk away and just shake off, and if there were kids involved, it's worse. Every traffic accident is a tragedy. If you want to achieve the road safety target and reduce the number of road deaths and injuries, you need to see the whole picture. It is not just speed, it is sobriety, behaviour in traffic, respect for traffic rules, respect for other road users out there, keeping distance and so on, using a seat belt and anchoring the goods if you drive a truck so that it cannot fall off and hit other road users. In the educational courses I had attended, I learned early that if you are going to work with road safety, it is important not to put a hard argument in the face of the person you want to convey a message to, because then the person will not be receptive to what you want to say. It was a bit the feeling I got in the last debate when the Government said that professional drivers generally drive too fast. This is the wrong approach, because there are many professional drivers who drive legally. They are not the ones you want to reach in the first place, but they are the ones who are breaking the rules. I want a little explanation of this from the Government.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-436	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell! I appreciate the commitment to road safety. It happens to be my heart's question. I believe that Thomas Morell, hopefully unconsciously, misinterprets what I said in the previous interpellation debate. We talked about stress in working life and the stress experienced by truck drivers in particular. It leads to the risk of getting into a situation where you drive too fast. What we have seen and which both the Swedish Transport Agency and the Swedish Transport Agency have reported is that according to measurements, approximately 70 per cent of the heavy traffic is running too fast. A basic reason for this is that the police consider stress in working life. There is fierce competition in the transport sector, not least the competition under pressure from illegal and sometimes illegal cabotage. These are tough margins, and it is transport buyers who make tough demands, which means that many drivers are pushed to the margins. I do not think this is acceptable. In Sweden, we systematically work with road safety when it comes to the design of the infrastructure. This is what zero vision is about – middle railings, automatic speed cameras and trying to build infrastructure so that people can make mistakes without it leading to fatal accidents. That's where we're successful. In the same breath that we are talking about these important efforts, we have to say, precisely for professional traffic, that the employer has a responsibility for the working environment and the challenges faced. Politically, we are taking this responsibility through the fact that we have now managed to negotiate a road package – the mobility package – in the EU, where we have smart tachographs, where we can digitally monitor and ensure compliance with, among other things, driving and rest time rules, where we have better control possibilities and where vehicles in cabotage and combined transport have to return to the country from which they come and that drivers also have to do so. This gives us more competitive conditions that give the Swedish haulage industry, which is doing a fantastic good job, better opportunities to drive in a sensible way and ensure that it can afford to invest in a modern fleet, not least now that electrification comes through, and that the truck driver's profession is an attractive profession where the stress in working life and in the transport sector does not pressure one to do wrong, but that one realises that the most important thing is to drive safely and safely and arrive. There are many skiers who take great responsibility for this. I think it is important that we conduct this discussion with the haulage industry and with the industry and that we ensure that we meet both fair competition conditions and decent and good working conditions so that we can attract more people to the important transport industry. When it comes to road safety work in general, I will take the opportunity to say to Thomas Morell, to the Riksdag and to everyone who listens that in February 2020 Sweden is hosting the world's largest road safety conference. The UN has commissioned us to hold the Global Ministerial Conference on Road Safety. Some ninety ministerial-led delegations come here to talk about road safety and new plans for the road safety work of the next ten years internationally. They come to Sweden to learn because we are successful. We are now down to 205 dead, I think the last number was. It's all-time-low, and it's a good sign. Let us hope that it will last this year, because it shows that we are on the right track, with alcohol controls, speed checks, prevention and zero vision work. We're way ahead of you. Let us ensure that working conditions, not least in the field of professional transport, are such that one feels that one can safely comply with the traffic rules that exist.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-445	Madam President, I would like Yeah, we're good this year, if you can say 205 dead are good. It's on the right track. But after all, we're heading for the worst traffic weekend – Christmas and New Year – and it can cause a little trouble. To go back to professional traffic, because it is close to my heart, I would say that many of the Swedish haulage companies work hard for both compliance and that drivers should lead by example out there. You have monthly briefings with your drivers to see how they are. I would like to take the Government to a very well-kept haulage company not so far from here. I usually meet them from time to time, and I have been there and had trainings on several occasions and have seen how they work with road safety, compliance and such things. It feels a little wrong to say that drivers generally drive too fast, because there you really are on for it to be according to book when drivers are out driving. But we also see examples out on the roads where you definitely don't follow the book. Just a few days ago, traffic police stopped two vehicles. A third was self-marking, as we usually say, because it had run up into a circulation site and become standing there. They were from the same trucker. Let me give you some examples of what these three drivers had done. They had driven distances of up to 130 km, which is an impossibility if you are to comply with the rules on driving and rest times. One had driven 2,43 miles [2,43 km] in four days, and the total driving time during the period was 49 hours and 18 minutes, without an approved daily rest period. When the police stopped one of the drivers, he had a 19-hour and 54-minute driving period, right there, at the stop. He'd have driven a hundred and a half miles. On an earlier occasion the driver had driven 25 hours and 39 minutes – 122.1 miles – with a total daily rest period of 3 hours and 23 minutes. I don't think anyone in this room wants to meet a driver out on the road who has rested for 3 hours during a 24-hour period. How is that possible? Yes, they get several driver's cards. Then they run a card with their own name on the day. Then they have two fake cards when they drive at night. Since the traffic police are at home behind Bolibompa, there is no risk that they will be stopped. Then it is harmless to drive with two fake cards and one's own on the day. In this way they round the whole system and come up in these numbers. Now the police could blow a hole in this, which was well. This is about a Swedish haulage company. But you follow a clear pattern and bring in drivers from elsewhere, in this case from a Romanian agency. They get paid per mile. The reason the police stopped the first car was because it was driving way too fast. It was the input value for the police at the first stop. Then you see what the effect is when drivers are paid per mile and hand out a number of driver cards. Then the effect is that it goes far too fast, and the drivers drive far too long. This creates enormous risks and, above all, it breaks down healthy competition. This is not good enough. That is why there must be more sharp control on the road in order to ensure road safety and to ensure healthy competition.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-454	Madam President, I would like I thank Thomas Morell for this. I do not think we have different views on this. It's a little odd to say that to a Swedish democrat. We usually think very differently. But when it comes to road safety, it goes without saying that it is a top priority for the government. That is one of the reasons why we have also set up an investigation into more effective control of commercial traffic. It is an initiative that I have taken to ensure that we in Sweden may create a professional traffic inspection. We have now earmarked money for the police to control, not least, cabotage traffic. During this parliamentary term, we have increased the scope for monitoring more than ever. Not to mention the efforts of clapping, fines and many of the tools that now exist to control professional traffic, but which were not there only a number of years ago when we had a bourgeois government that did not care at all about the illegal activity that was actually on the roads and that pressured Swedish haulage industry. The examples presented by Thomas Morell show that there is an employer's perspective. As an employer, you have a responsibility for the working environment that drivers are exposed to and the dependency that they are in. I notice that the Swedish Democrats often avoid this discussion and say that it is about checks on the roads. We are going to increase the controls on the roads; that goes without saying. We will ensure that there will be both digital and personal controls to an increased extent. It's important. But one cannot escape the fact that there is also a perspective about the stress that drivers are exposed to. Then we come to questions concerning the Swedish Work Environment Authority and their resources and conditions for regional safety representatives. These are subject areas where the Swedish democrats' own involvement has been very small and where they have not seen the need for increased resources for either work environment research or work environment work. Here I hope they will change their minds and see the need to also look at employers' responsibilities in the future. We will need more drivers in the future, and we will need more people working in the transport sector. It is not attractive to work in the transport sector if the vision of the future is to be in a rest area, sleep in the cabin, cook outside and be underpaid. This is how the driver's profession has been pictured for a long time. That is why we are working at European and Swedish level to ensure better conditions for professional traffic. I often visit hauliers. One of my favourite skiers is Ernst Express in Avesta, who manages to be an attractive employer. It invests in a modern fleet and is also involved in developing the transport industry with, for example, the electric road experiment. At the same time, there is a great concern to set an example in terms of both modernisation of the fleet and, not least, legality. It is a matter for us to protect the good riders that exist, and there are very many who want to do the right thing. They should then be entitled to fair conditions of competition, so that they can continue to pursue a good health and safety policy towards their employees. Finally, as far as road safety is concerned, I would like to take this opportunity to say that one of the most important actions in the near future concerns both control activities and how we build infrastructure. As we now make large and extensive investments in Swedish infrastructure, we will spend SEK 9 – 10 billion on, among other things, middle separation to avoid frontal collisions. It's something that saves lives. Now let the number 205 hold. In that case, it is the lowest measured figure ever in terms of the number killed in traffic in Sweden. This is a success for Swedish road safety work, and it is something that we should be very proud of.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-461	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Tomas for this. I do not want to be the one who is pessimistic, but unfortunately I do not think that figure holds over Christmas and New Year holidays. Experience shows that there will be a number of accidents. In any case, road safety work is important. In fact, many hauliers are doing outstanding work to ensure that the operations are carried out according to the rules and that they are safe for the drivers. There are many hauliers who do an amazing job. I visited a haulage company in Stockholm this weekend. There I was in an YKB training. We had a discussion about the importance of keeping speeds, acting as good examples in traffic, and so on. The employer was extremely clear to the employees that the priority in the business is to comply with the regulations and to show consideration to other road users. If you don't, that brand will hurt. I would therefore like to say that very many of the Swedish hauliers are actually trying to have a good employer's role and a good road safety policy. I do not want to call it an employer, but rather to call it a slave driver. People are forced to drive far more than the body can handle. At the hearing of the driver, the driver fell asleep. I've been there myself, a driver we took and who had been driving for 55 hours fell asleep. It is not possible to have this type of driver on the road. We can agree on that. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President, the Government and the other participants here a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-467	Madam President, I would like I thank Thomas Morell for this. There is a challenge in continuing to push down the number of injured and killed in traffic. It is about the design, monitoring possibilities and new technology of the infrastructure and how we use it. Geofencing and digitalisation provide increased opportunities, in terms of smart tachographs, to actually get better flows in traffic while at the same time reducing speeds. Here, however, I am optimistic about the possibilities of reducing the number of injured and killed in traffic. But it is also about occupational health and safety and the employer's responsibility. When 70% of professional traffic is speeding, something fundamental is wrong. I think it is about fair competition, stress at work and a lack of clarity as to which rules apply. Here is a lesson to do also for Swedish haulage industry. They actively work through Fair Transport 2.0 in a very good way to strengthen both confidence in the haulage industry and the commitment of all road hauliers. If transport buyers can allow this to be the benchmark for purchasing transport, it will benefit the serious hauliers – we know a lot of them – who spend time and effort on both being good employers and investing in modern fleets to reduce the climate impact of professional traffic. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity not only to thank you for the interpellation debate but also to wish the President, Parliament staff and Members of Parliament a really good Christmas. I hope that we will have a pleasant time and that everyone will take it easy on traffic, and we will see each other in the barricades in January.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-470	Madam President, I would like Mats Green has asked me if I am prepared to take any measures, initiatives or discussions on the grounds that the National Archives have attributed to Jönköping Municipality and announced that they intend to revoke the privileges of Jönköping and Gränna granted to the municipality. For the government, it is important that we have a living cultural life throughout the country. This includes safeguarding the local roots of cultural heritage and, in particular, the preservation of cultural objects in places to which they have a historical connection. However, as Minister of Culture, I shall not intervene in an individual administrative matter. The National Archives is the Government's expert authority for archives. The agency's task is both to ensure the management of public documents in today's authorities and to manage the cultural heritage created by the previous authority. The work of the National Archives is largely constitutionally governed. However, the Agency's work on cultural heritage also applies to cultural policy objectives, including the objective of promoting a living cultural heritage that is preserved, used and developed. I have confidence that the National Archives can make the balances that are required against this background and hope that the National Archives and Jönköping Municipality together will be able to come up with a good solution.
i-D9pxXPw77Mu4tyUgVMZCeH	Madam President, I would like The background to the interpellation about the Swedish National Archives' attempts to confiscate both the privileges of Jönköping and Gränna City are as follows. In 1284 Magnus Ladulås issued the privilege letter that gave Jönköping city privileges. It is not only the oldest preserved letter of privilege in Sweden, but it is one of the oldest preserved letters of privilege in the world. In 1652 Queen Kristina Gränna issued the Privileges of the City. Both of these unique and outstandingly beautiful documents have always been physically available in Jönköping. Given that Jönköping's privilege letter is both the oldest and among the best preserved is the least one can say that the present has been first class in every way. The letters have been regularly displayed and kept alive and relevant to the public, visitors and researchers and otherwise have been available in an honest, exemplary way by Jönköping City Archives. The documents are an important and crucial part of our local history and identity and should not lie and collect dust together with millions of other anonymous documents in an inaccessible national archive. Now the National Archives have attributed to Jönköping Municipality and made it clear that they intend to seize and remove both Privilege letters from their centuries-old, almost thousand-year-old, storage site. Reference is made to an internal change in the Swedish National Archives lending rules. The municipality of Jönköping has not only been the repository of these letters of privilege for several hundred, and soon thousands, years, but is also the recipient and subject of these documents in the first place. I can add that the ownership of these privilege letters is in no way investigated, so there is also no legal support to say that they belong to the National Archives. The municipality of Jönköping has made it clear in clear and well worded letters that it does not intend to contribute to a handover as long as the legal issue has not been settled. A number of obvious questions arise here, for example: What respect for history shows the National Archives' ambitions and practices? What respect for the very objects of these privilege letters to begin with, i.e. Jönköping and Gränna, and our right to our own history shows the procedures of the National Archives? And what does the National Archives wish to achieve with this? To be honest, it is obviously not done for a constructive purpose. In view of this, I asked the Minister for Culture a number of questions as to whether she was prepared to take any steps to deal with this. The Minister notes that the procedures of the National Archives are contrary to the cultural policy objectives of safeguarding the local roots of cultural heritage. I quote the Minister's explicit statement that cultural objects can be preserved in places to which they have a historical connection. She also says that the local cultural heritage should be made available. The Minister states that the objectives of cultural policy should govern the activities of the National Archives and that they should be followed. However, she does not want to act when the National Archives are acting across from them. I would like the Minister for Culture to clarify his somewhat contradictory answer.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-484	Madam President, I would like First of all, in principle, this is an individual administrative matter in which I, as a minister, shall not speak on the individual issue. In principle, it is just as I said and as Mats Green also highlights: It is important that we have a cultural heritage that is accessible and that as many as possible should be able to access. This is something that I and we in the government have been working on, for example in the museum area. There we have the fairly new museum law that says that we should make it clear that objects can be made available to different museums. For example, lending opportunities should be expanded. In the context of cultural heritage policy, an archive investigation has also been carried out. I received the proposals from the investigation only the other day, and they aim to open up, make available and ensure public access to cultural heritage. On this issue, it is clear that there are several principles on how public archives are managed and how the documents contained in them are handled. One of these principles is the one that I have spoken about and which is important: cultural objects can be preserved in places where they have a historical connection. But there is also another principle that they can also be preserved together with other documents created in the same activity. It is therefore about the value of having a cohesive archive. With this, I would like to point out that there are different principles, and what weighs most must be a professional balance. Having said that, I understand the claims made by Jönköping Municipality. Privilege letters have been administered for a long time. The municipality and its inhabitants value them very much. As I understand it, the National Archives do not have anything to say about how the municipality has managed the letters of privilege, but, as far as I understand it, the municipality has managed the administration well. But again: The National Archives have to independently make decisions on these kinds of matters, and I have confidence that the National Archives will handle this task in a good way. I hope, of course, that there will also be an opportunity for dialogue and a solution. I have also understood that after the interpellation was submitted, Jönköping Municipality has announced that it is considering a judicial review of the ownership of the Privilege letters. If there are ambiguities, I think it is a good thing that this is clarified by means of a judicial review. It is the same thing there; it would be inappropriate for me in any way to speak about and anticipate such a test.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-491	Madam President, I would like I would like to make three points. No one has claimed that the Minister should go into the individual case concerning these two letters of privilege. We know how ministerial rule works. What I am asking is for general changes to be made when one sees that the National Archives run counter to the general policy and the main cultural policy that this government has considered itself to be. Then I would appreciate it if the Minister could open up to some form of investigation or handling in regulatory letters or otherwise in relation to the general question. With the Minister referring to the policy taken by the government in the field of museums, I can only note that the single largest cultural policy reform in the last five years has been free admission to state museums. Almost all of these are located in Stockholm. The approximately 2,300 other museums in Sweden have not been given a free entrance. With this, I would like to point out that in cultural policy there is a fairly clear focus on Stockholm but not on the rest of the country. Then we are on my third and final point. The Minister for Culture himself says in his reply that it is important that local cultural heritage is available locally and can also be stored locally. I find it a little difficult to see any cultural heritage that could be more important than just privilege letters. It cannot be said that simply because rune stones, ruins and other memorials cannot be moved, they should be kept locally, but if something can possibly be pulled into a central authority, it should also be done. It goes just the opposite of the policy that the government claims to be pursuing. The Minister for Culture says that it is important that local cultural heritage is accessible locally and can also be stored locally. Then one must be able to see that the National Archives here do exactly the opposite. The only thing to refer to, Madam President, is internal archiving procedures. I note that if these go against national cultural policies, something is wrong. Then I expect the Minister to be prepared to act, with directives or general measures, to ensure that this is simply not possible. I would like the Minister to develop his position on this particular point.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-498	Madam President, I would like Since the interpellation is about these privilege letters, I will not go in and comment on what Mats Green said about the free-entry reform. On the other hand, I would really like to emphasise both my commitment and that of the government to ensuring that we have a living cultural life throughout the country and that we safeguard the local foundation of cultural heritage. What I was trying to highlight, and I can do it again, was that it is important that cultural objects can be preserved in places to which they have a historical connection. However, there are other principles that the Authority has to take into account, and one is that archives can also be preserved together with other documents created in the same activity. The balance between those principles is something that this authority needs to do and decide professionally based on the individual situation. There I cannot and shall not have any comments, as Mats Green says. But again: I understand Jönköping Municipality in this case and because there are strong feelings associated with these privilege letters.
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-501	Madam President, I would like It was the Minister himself who highlighted museum policy, and that is why I commented on it. I am not buying the argument that the Government should not go in here, as it would be ministerial rule. I'm not asking you to do this just for the City of Jönköping and Gränna's Privilege letter, but to handle it as a general measure. If ministers are not prepared to act when they see that state authorities are acting in a way that runs counter to the ambitions of national cultural policy or other policies, they would not be able to engage in anything. I also note that the Government's response focuses on the fact that the national cultural policy objectives also apply to the National Archives. In fact, the fact that they then refer to an internal archiving procedure that cancels national cultural policy objectives cannot be acceptable. When it comes to that there would be added value in that this is stored with other documents, it is not that the National Archives will do anything with the letters. You're going to press them into an archive, along with millions of other documents, and you're not going to show them in any way unless someone asks for it. I may think that this is partly wrong and partly deeply tragic. I would like to conclude by wishing both the President and the Government a Merry Christmas. One of my Christmas traditions has always been to visit the City Archives in Jönköping the day before Christmas and coffee with the very driven and competent employees there. Then I also regularly look at both Jönköping City Privilege Letters and Gränna City Privilege Letters. I would also like to invite the Minister to do this with me or alone on another occasion. But I am still asking the Minister for action. Thank you and Merry Christmas!
i-2442b3c1b3fcfef7-506	Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by highlighting the needs and importance of our archives as making available all the facts, knowledge and history that are preserved in archives throughout our country, both public and private. They certainly represent an important role in our democracy. We also see how the entire archive area has a great deal of commitment on the part of many people in our country. The discussion on the current letters of privilege also shows how important cultural heritage is for many people and how important it is that it is also possible to access it. It is the National Archives that are responsible for our public archives and for the documents included in them. They are also responsible for the archive sector in the country as a whole. It is important for me to emphasise that they are the ones who independently make decisions on these kinds of matters. I would like to emphasise once again that cultural heritage is our common resource. It is important that it is well managed and preserved for the future, but also that it is available and used in the present. I can also wish the President and the Member of Parliament a Merry Christmas.
