i-c39ba496bf805eb3-8	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me questions about the control of ID data and coordination numbers to reduce the use of vehicle goaltenders. With regard to the coordination number, the Government decided on 5 September 2019 on the draft directive on measures to reduce errors in public records ( dir. 2019:54). A special investigator has been asked to propose, inter alia, how the verification of a person's identity should be designed in order to make the allocation of the coordination number more secure. The investigator shall also propose further measures to ensure a safer coordination number system. The association of vehicle goaltenders is a social problem, and the government is therefore planning to investigate further measures, including analysing the possibility of limiting the number of vehicles that may be registered on a person. I will, of course, follow these issues and intend to come back once the relevant analyses have been completed.
i-c39ba496bf805eb3-11	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that is very important and connected with foreign theft leagues. I have debated it before; I think this is the fourth time. The first time I raised the question was in an interpellation debate with the Minister of Justice on 16 June 2017. Then, Madam President, I read from the police report of 28 November 2016, Criminal Tools for International Crime Networks – Car Goal Guards from East 2016. I would like to start by returning to it. The report looked at the coordination numbers and concluded, among other things, that the 512 persons with coordination numbers studied by the police owned 28 897 vehicles and had many tens of millions of debts. It is also said that the perpetrators behind the goalkeepers represent an important capacity for organised theft and smuggling activities. They have the ownership documents and can distribute large quantities of vehicles without financial or criminal risk. These vehicles are sold in cash without a change of ownership to newly arrived thieves who operate in the kingdom between two and six months before being expelled or changing countries. The vehicles, says the police, are considered a crime tool and constitute an important capacity for the organization. It advertises freely on various sales forums and talks about a tax-free car. This appeals to both foreign thieves and Swedish fraudsters, who suddenly do not have to pay either taxes, parking tickets, congestion charges or other charges related to the car. What, then, is the police proposing in this memo, Madam President? I have come back to this again and again. Yes, a constitutional change. It shall be prohibited to own more than one vehicle without a special authorisation if one has a coordination number. Such a request must be submitted in person at the Swedish Transport Agency, and the person must be identified. Here we have the next problem: When the Swedish Transport Agency finds out about the change of ownership – you have sent in a blurry photostat copy that can easily be changed – you get a temporary social security number, and that is something that goes directly into this crime. Today, most people can, or should be able to, switch ownership online or via the app. Otherwise, however, we should of course identify ourselves. For the Swedish Transport Agency, it is a cost issue, but it could also be done through the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Road Administration or a citizens' office. Strengthening ID-control should be a most reasonable thing to do. Then my question is: what is happening in that area? I'm very concerned when I hear the answer. When I raised the question two years ago, the minister responsible said that he would look at it immediately. The investigation will now be completed in April 2021. Should it really take so long to change a thing this important?
i-c39ba496bf805eb3-18	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Oscarsson for his commitment. I really appreciate that, and I can assure you that I am just as upset about how to use this. This is not just the case for coordination numbers, but we have concerns about vehicle registration in general when it is used for car targets or to otherwise stimulate or facilitate financial crime. There we have made considerable efforts, and we will still have to do so in the future because this tends to be a growing crime. In particular, the budget creates opportunities for municipalities to have the resources to remove these cars and thus take care of those who are otherwise used not least in crime. Then I can understand that Mikael Oscarsson would like to see an exact solution that means that you yourself should appear in a government office and identify yourself. At the same time, we live in a digital world where we appreciate simplification with eID and other ways to manage ownership shifts. We need to think about what is the right effort in this context. What happens, of course, is that the Swedish Transport Agency has strengthened the level of competence in terms of coordination numbers and review of, for example, ID documents. The Swedish Transport Agency has also decided on guidelines for the management of coordination numbers. Here they have also had the Tax Agency's internal memos to support the processing work. Then we investigate the question further, which I mention in the answer. It is complex. I have a counter-question to put to Mikael Oscarsson, who is a fundamental question in many parties. It's about ownership. Some point out here the property rights arguments so as not to limit how many vehicles you can register on a person. Nevertheless, I have found it reasonable to actually go that way. That is why we are also opening the way for such an analysis to be carried out in the future, so that we do not have people who own perhaps thousands of vehicles. Then we should remember that of a total of 67 109 coordination numbers, the Swedish Transport Agency has 1 918. This represents 2.9 % of the total number of requisitions, so the concern and the discussion on coordination numbers is obviously considerably greater. It also requires general solutions to what concerns ID confirmation. I assume that not least the Swedish Tax Agency will continue to work intensively with this.
i-c39ba496bf805eb3-23	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. Of course, you should move on to using an app – there is one already – to make online ownership changes and where you can see that the person who buys is not just such a person who has 10 000, 20 000, 30 000, 40 000 SEK or 1 million in debt. There needs to be action in this regard. Why should we allow many people to have this many cars? I have a list that the Minister can get after the debate. It is page and up and down where you can see temporary social security numbers, i.e. coordination numbers, and how many cars are connected to them. Many of those who have these numbers have 10 cars, but there are many that have 100 cars, a number that have 500 cars, a whole set that has 1,000 cars and some that have 2 000, 3 000 or over 3 500 cars. This is completely unreasonable. That is why the government must now act. It is not enough to think that this is something you agree with the interpellant, as the Minister of Justice already did two years ago and would look at it. It is necessary to change this and make sure that it is no longer possible to have this opportunity. It is now necessary to set a limit on the temporary social security numbers, the coordination numbers, so that only one or a maximum of two cars can be used. We have to stop the armada that goes around in traffic like this and is neither valued, inspected nor insured and is the direct tool of the activities of the criminal gangs. When the police come across a car like this that has tax debts on, let's say over half a basic amount, you should knock that car. It is important to ensure that Sweden becomes less attractive for theft leagues to operate in, and then you have to do such a thing. I read very carefully in the report already in June 2017. Then it was six months old, and the government had received it. But now a new search has been made, and this has increased, I would like to inform the Government about, by 30%. The question is more topical now than when I raised it the first time, and the patience of the Swedish people fails. You have to make sure you plug the holes. It's not enough to look at this. I think it is worrying that the investigator should report this only in April 2021. It should also be done as in other countries and ensure that the coordination numbers are limited in time. In Norway they go out, but in Sweden they are enough forever. They should also be categorized. Then there's another thing that's also important, and that's the thing about the ANPR cameras. I also mentioned that two years ago. Other countries use this to keep track of the theft gangs entering the country. It is available in Norway, Finland, Denmark and Holland but not in Sweden. Action is now required, Minister!
i-c39ba496bf805eb3-31	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Oscarsson! Action is ongoing. There are a number of changes – not least with regard to what I mentioned earlier, but also with regard to budgetary reinforcements. Part of this is, of course, about the activities of the police, and that debate may be taken by the interpeller with the Minister of Justice. I am a little perplexed, because Mikael Oscarsson only mentions coordination numbers in this context. Transfers of ownership may also be made to persons who do not have a coordination number. Is Mikael Oscarsson equally concerned when people with social security numbers are changing ownership? It is a rather important distinction that needs to be made. I remember from our previous interpellation debate that Mikael Oscarsson was very committed to the fact that it was just about people with coordination numbers. That's one part. The second part is that we need to be careful about legislation on fundamental rights about what one can own and does not own. I can understand that lawyers have views on this, and I would like to see a development in which we limit the number of vehicles they own, and that is also the direction we have in the work of the government. But it is also a question of protecting those who sell a vehicle to, for example, a person with a coordination number so that they do not end up in a difficult situation. If Mikael Oscarsson sells his vehicle to someone who has a coordination number, he can then get debts that the vehicle collects while it is carried on the road, but he is no longer able to take responsibility for how the vehicle is driven. That is the obvious risk. Therefore, the question is a little more complex than as simple as Mikael Oscarsson wants it. I share the view that we urgently need to find more tools to plug the holes that exist. That is why we have made efforts, that is why we are continuing to investigate the issue and that is why we are also ensuring that at the Swedish Transport Agency there is a completely different competence in terms of coordination numbers and their control – just as it is needed in other authorities where the majority of the country's coordination numbers are handled. This is a gradual improvement. I am convinced that we will be able to reach goals, and I am also convinced that Mikael Oscarsson and I will be able to say in a few years' time: How good, we have broken the trend – let us then continue to work to create order and prevent financial crime!
i-c39ba496bf805eb3-37	Madam President, I would like The heading of this debate is Foreign theft leagues, and it is worth recalling that the police note that 90 percent of all thefts of cars, boat engines and agricultural machinery are committed by foreign theft leagues. Goods are brought out of Sweden to a value of up to 2 billion per year. Let me sum up what I think needs to be done. Strengthen the control of ID data from the Swedish Transport Agency to the Swedish Tax Agency for foreign car purchases to stop car goalkeepers. It is quite unreasonable that it is like today and that this generates temporary social security numbers, coordination numbers, which open the entire Swedish system to criminals.
i-c39ba496bf805eb3-41	The law needs to be amended so that the Customs Administration can seize stolen goods in a completely different way from today. All legislation also needs to be made clear so that it is in no way possible to collect stolen goods in the way that is possible today. There is also a need to limit the number of people who may be registered at the same address, which I also refer to in the interpellation. I spoke to a very centrally placed police officer last night, and there's an address outside of town where 500 people are registered. In the same apartment, 2 000 people have lived for a period of time. These are things on which the government, which is actually privileged to govern our country, has the responsibility of making concrete proposals. For this reason, I would like to end by really calling on the Government to act and to ensure that the legislation is in place so that Sweden can become less attractive for foreign theft leagues to act in.
i-c39ba496bf805eb3-44	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Oscarsson! I note that in the years in which we had an alliance government there was little effort in this area. This is where we act. This is the moment when we are putting budgetary resources in place to deal with the vehicles that are left wind by wave in the streets. It is now that we are setting up investigations to look at the problems of a rather complex nature that exist. It is now that the Swedish Transport Agency is working to strengthen the competence for coordination tasks. With regard to the three points that Mikael Oscarsson mentions in his interpellation, we can put a check on all of them. Check to strengthen the ID work at the Swedish Transport Agency. Check on the question that we are considering ways to limit the number of vehicles. Check that there is a basis when it comes to working to limit the coordination numbers – the Swedish Tax Agency has developed it. So the process is under way. I can understand that one is impatient, but I also think that a Member of Parliament must understand that legislative work, regulatory work, should be done carefully. It should then be able to be handled by law enforcement authorities. There must be a good basis for us to then be able to stop this emerging crime both in Sweden and in other parts of Europe.
