i-T6AnWCyVJ15ufuiVoqCy2K	According to 6th chapter. Section 4, first paragraph, the form of government is for me to submit proposals to the new Prime Minister for the approval of Parliament. Before I go into the concrete proposal, I would like to say a few words about the process that has taken place in the autumn. If you want to sum it up in figures, you can say that we have had a compulsory prime minister's vote, two trials in the Chamber of the President's prime minister candidates, three exploratory missions, four group talks, six meetings between me and the King, seven presidential rounds, seventeen discussions with the Vice-Presidents and even more press meetings. Today, the fourteenth was carried out with just me and a further series of party leaders. This has been a fall like no other in Swedish politics. When I was elected President on 24 September, I realised that we were facing a complex formation of government. But I couldn't believe it would be this hard and this drawn out. As you know, I have answered several questions from the media during these months. More than once I have been tempted to quote Runeberg, who in the poem Suomenlinna uses the phrase: ..................................................... There have been more questions than answers about what is going to happen. When the long period of time has been discussed, I have instead been tempted to quote Karin Boye, "No doubt there is purpose and purpose in our journey" – but it is the road, which is worth the effort. ..................................................... However, Karin Boye is not in fact right in this context. My job is to propose to the House a prime minister candidate. It is not the road that is worth the effort, but it is the goal that is the focus. Whether this process in the light of history can be described as successful or not is decided at the end of the day whether it leads to Sweden having a government or not. I have had a few ambitions throughout this process. Firstly, I wanted to be clear about both the decisions I have taken and why. I have endeavoured to ensure that any decision can be justified by objective arguments. Secondly, I have endeavoured to combine tradition and development. I have wanted to build on previous government formation practices. At the same time, however, I have not hesitated to take measures that have not been tried before when justified. Thirdly, I wanted to be anchored in the present, but I wanted to look to the future. The actions I am taking will serve as a basis for the practice of future Presidents in future government formations. Fourthly, I have endeavoured to be as open and transparent as possible with my actions. I have wanted to be as accessible as possible to the media in order to give voters a good picture of how the work of forming their government is progressing. Fifthly, I have tried to strike a reasonable balance between the interest that the process of government formation should proceed quickly and the interest that Sweden should have a government at all. Given the locks that have existed between the parties and the difficulties that exist for parties to reconsider positions, I have allowed negotiation and anchoring to an extent and with methods that have not occurred in the past. The first probers received two weeks each for their assignments, to illustrate. Another example is the method of announcing forthcoming Prime Minister votes in advance. Sometimes it has been discussed whether I have given too many and too long deadlines. We will never have a sure answer to that question. But for me, the many tours and turns that have taken place this autumn are proof that it has been justified to work methodically step by step and give relatively plenty of time for both contacts between parties and internal processes in the parties. Today, if I have not miscalculated, it has been 129 days since the 9 September elections. For Swedish purposes, this means that we have had a historically long process of government formation. Even in a European perspective, it is a long time. It is reported that this formation of government now belongs to the 4% of Western European government formations after 1945, which has taken the longest. The process is historic in other ways too. As I have just mentioned, I have used methods that have not been used before. It has never been the case before that the President's candidate for Prime Minister's office has been rejected by Parliament, and not only once, but twice. In view of this, I have said on several occasions that I would prefer to see the candidate whom I propose for the third vote actually have the opportunity to be elected. Last Monday, it looked like it was going to be hard. During today's round of Presidents, however, I have received new information. I have consulted representatives of each parliamentary party group, as prescribed by the government. I have consulted with the Vice-Presidents, and I now propose that the Parliament appoint Stefan Löfven, the Social Democrats, as new Prime Minister, who intends to form a government composed of representatives of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The proposal will be postponed for the first time today and for the second time tomorrow and will be examined by the House at 2.30 p.m. 9:00 a.m. on Friday. My assessment is that the conditions for his approval by the Riksdag are good. This meant that the 2018 long political autumn in Sweden would end on Friday 18 January.
i-4df35d538b68fbda-19	Honourable members and former members of the Swedish Parliament! The turbulent political autumn not only affected the formation of the government, but also meant that, unfortunately, it was not possible, as usual before Christmas, to cancel the members of parliament who left after the elections. However, I am very happy to thank you today, and I am pleased to do so here in Parliament where you have had a central part of your work. I would like to thank you very much for the efforts you have made in the very special and fine task of being a member of the Swedish Parliament. All of you who are thanked today have received gilded Parliament pins and a letter with a personal thank you distributed at your seats. Those of you who have sat at least one full parliamentary term also receive a medal. I will now withdraw from office by group. A more personal thank you will be addressed to those of you who have served the longest time. I would like to ask those of you who are in the hall to rise when you hear your name during the gags. I will now read out the names of members who have been members of the Riksdag mainly during the last parliamentary term, 2014– 2018.
i-4df35d538b68fbda-25	A big and warm thanks to you for your contributions to the Swedish Parliament and in the service of democracy!
i-DEQ4Pu7vTLS641joPU2mJm	The following members have been members of the Riksdag for about eight years, and the majority came in 2010.
i-4df35d538b68fbda-26	A big and warm thanks to you for your contributions to the Swedish Parliament and for Swedish democracy!
i-4df35d538b68fbda-27	As I have said, I would like to thank the Members who have been Members of Parliament for 12 years or longer with a few personal words. I would also ask you to stand up when I read your name. Sofia Arkelsten! You entered the Riksdag of the Moderates in 2006, and you have represented the constituency of Stockholm Municipality. In the Riksdag, you have been chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee and member of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, the EU Council, the Foreign Affairs Committee and the war delegation. You were party secretary 2010 – 2012 and have been spokesperson on environmental and climate issues, foreign policy and aid. Saving the world, as you put it, has permeated everything you have done, from animal welfare to free trade. We know you as an expert when it comes to international visits, and you are also a diligent embassy visitor. Your international interest is also reflected in your commitment to Arctic issues and in your love for our neighbour Finland. In the political work, you have been both the ideologist and the intern – you have stood for orderly and efficient, but inclusive, meetings. You have a language that allows people both to understand and to be affected. Your drive seems to hold on to all moments, in both adversity and adversity, and so does your positive attitude. You are a person who puts a golden edge on life – who creates glitter and glamour in everyday life – and you have done so here in Parliament as well. Thank you for your efforts!
i-CJxwfgKEcZLkNMtSb1MvNX	Christian Holm Barenfeld! You entered the Riksdag of the Moderates in 2006, and you have represented the constituency of Värmland County. In the Riksdag, you have been a member of the Labour Market Committee and the Foreign Affairs Committee. The fight for men's rights and strengthened pressure – and freedom of expression have been your big heart issues. You have supported the democratic process in Eastern Europe, especially in Belarus, and you have been the spokesperson of the Moderates on issues of aid and human rights. During your years in the Riksdag, you have represented Sweden in the OSCE delegation, been an election observer and responsible for the Moderates network abroad. Although your political mission has gone far beyond Sweden's borders, you have not forgotten the close relationships. If Sofia is a friend of Finland, as I have just mentioned, you are at least as great a friend of our beautiful neighbour Norway. You have long worked to strengthen the relationship and tear the border barriers between our countries. You're an ideologically driven and happy person with the heart in the right place. Your social ability will liven up any event, and you are very good at always getting a press cut. Hopefully there is now more time for friends and family – and of course for nature in Värmland, which you hold very dear. It has been said that it is an adventure to travel with you, and now your adventure continues. A warm thank you for your contributions to the Swedish Parliament!
i-sd5AzUFdwnxeah57jYPyt	Eva-Lena Jansson! You entered the Riksdag of the Social Democrats in 2006, and you have represented the constituency of Örebro County. In the Riksdag, you have been a member of the Social Security Committee and the Labour Market Committee, as well as an alternate member of the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Swedish delegation of the Council of Europe. You've been your party's spokesperson on intellectual property issues. In the Labour Market Committee, you were responsible for disability issues. Your way into politics started in the trade union Seko, where you as a postman became involved after changes in occupational injury insurance. You have served on the union Seko's federal board as a representative of the postal workers. Your strong interest in gender equality permeates your political action, and for you it is a matter of course to always stand up for the weak in society. An example of this we have seen here in Parliament through your involvement in the Society for the Right Livelihood Award in the Riksdag. You have also done great work in the Swedish delegation of the Council of Europe. You are a diligent user of Twitter, where you make your positions on various issues known – as an active politician should nowadays. Your stubbornness and industriousness as well as your ability to hold the flock together like a sheep dog are appreciated by your colleagues. These are qualities that you will be able to use for the future, even when cultural issues are on your agenda. A warm thank you for your contributions to the Swedish Parliament!
i-2r2U7N19ksmP31X4RxN5LW	Ulrika Karlsson! You entered the Riksdag of the Moderates in 2006 and have represented the constituency of Uppsala County. Among other things, you have been a member of the Committee on Justice and the Moderates' group leader in the EU Board. You committed yourself early in politics, through the Moderate Youth Association in Örebro County. That's when we got to know each other. With law studies and moving to Uppsala, the political commitment continued, which then led to the Riksdag – and out into the world. You have been a member of several interparliamentary networks and international forums, and in 2018 you were elected president of the World's female parliamentarians, who represent women in 178 countries. You have especially fought against child marriage, maternal mortality and sexual violence. You have actively worked to strengthen women's rights at a global level, and the whole world has been your field of work. Your motivation and passion have enthused many people. You are a person with the ambition to be thorough and reviewable, which has made you well aware of the issues you have raised in the Riksdag. In the work for change and development, you are thorough and dedicated. Both in the Riksdag and internationally, there is evidence of a living and willful colleague and politician with human rights and gender equality as a driving force. A warm thank you for your contributions to the Swedish Parliament!
i-85BZvqfADbqHkaEF3Jo8Nn	Olof Lavesson! D u entered the Riksdag of the Moderates in 2006, and you have represented the constituency of Malmö Municipality. In the Riksdag you have been chairman of the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Civil Affairs and Culture. You have also been a member of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Taxation. During your years in Parliament, you have profiled yourself for democracy, free speech, education and culture. Even in the role of your party's spokesperson in cultural politics and LGBTQ-related issues, you have actively worked to make society more open, tolerant and inclusive. We know you as a person who naturally combines political professionalism with tolerance and empathy. You are loyal, considerate, and easy to like. You don't have to be a party friend to think that. For example, Alice Bah Kuhnke has said that she hopes for friendship, at least when your years in politics are over. Your interest in theatre, literature and art is well known, but not everyone knows that you have also participated in the Swedish-Danish crime series Bron. There were no lines that time, but who knows, maybe the 30-second sequence shows a new career? Thank you very much for your contributions to the Swedish Parliament!
i-4zYwxyHak5Mu78e8MkwPD3	Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng! D u was elected to Parliament in 2006 for the Moderates, and you have represented the northern constituency of Västra Götaland County. In the Riksdag, you have been a member of the Social Security Committee and an alternate member of the Education Committee and the Environment and Agriculture Committee. You have also been a spokesperson of the Moderates on pension issues and a member of the Pensions Group. In addition, you have been a member of the Swedish delegation of the Nordic Council. Lars-Lars-Arne, your political interest spans a wide range of fields, but health care, care for the elderly, school and legal issues are especially close to your heart. For example, you have a strong belief that safe families are the basis for a safe and good society. You're saying that if everyone could grow up where they feel loved and needed, many social problems would have been much less. You yourself have described the assignment as a Member of Parliament as fantastic fun, despite many early mornings and late evenings. I know you especially enjoyed coming out and meeting people and listening to what they have to say. Over the years, you have had many discussions in your constituency and in other contexts about how to make Sweden better. Thank you very much for your contributions to the Swedish Parliament!
i-6hygQKyEgJ7kGeiGG1wAts	Thomas Strand! D u joined the Parliament of the Social Democrats in place in 2002 and 2005 and then under his own mandate in 2006. You have represented the constituency of Jönköping County. In the Riksdag, you have been a member of the Education Committee and the EU Board, as well as a member of the Board of Governors of the Riksbank's Jubilee Fund Foundation. Your great commitment in a variety of areas has resulted, among other things, in you having been chairman of Rifo, the Society of Representatives and researchers. You have also been active in the Swedish-Israeli Parliamentary Friendship Association and group leaders in the Riksdag for Social Democrats for Faith and Solidarity. Within your party you have been responsible for higher education and research. Space issues have also been close to your heart. Your driving forces for political engagement are freedom, equality and solidarity. You are a pragmatic, driven, serious and responsible person who is also described as being friendly, professional and industrious. I hope you will now have more time for bird watching and golf when you finish your assignment as a Member of Parliament after just over twelve years, although your commitment will always be something you carry with you. Thank you very much for your contributions to the Swedish Parliament!
i-4df35d538b68fbda-62	Staffan Danielsson! D u was elected to Parliament in 2004 as the representative of the Centre Party and the constituency of Östergötland County, and you and I have been fighting together on the East Götta bench for many years. In the Riksdag, you have, among other things, been a member of the Committee on Defence and the EU Board and have been a deputy to the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. You have also been the spokesperson for your party and a member of the war delegation. You have been active in both association life and politics for a long time. You also have a background as an agronomist and agricultural entrepreneur. From there, the step was not far to a commitment with a focus on the environment, rural areas, agriculture and entrepreneurship. Over the years, you have participated in numerous debates in this House which have dealt with issues in those areas. You have also been a member of the Signalspanningsnämnden, the Swedish Fisheries Agency's Transparency Council and the Recruiting Authority's Transparency Council. As a member of the Swedish delegation of the Nordic Council, you were the driving force at the Helsinki 2017 session to reach a compromise on the position of Finnish in the Nordic Council. You did not want the Finnish delegation's proposal to turn Finnish into the official language of the Nordic Council to be rejected the same year as Finland's 100th birthday as an independent nation, and you succeeded. It is a good example of the energy that drives you and the just epatos that you possess, but you are also a positive and caring person who possesses the important quality of being able to distinguish between the thing and the person. Thank you very much for your contributions to the Swedish Parliament!
i-VGD7xgaYe8vn1bw1mZPv9z	Nina Lundström! D u has been a Member of Parliament of the Liberals for several times since 2002 and has been on a number of committees, most recently on the Transport Committee. During your time in the Civil Affairs Committee, you were the committee's vice-chairman. You have also been a substitute member of the Swedish Parliament Board and a member of the Swedish delegation of the Nordic Council, among other things. In addition, you have been the infrastructure political spokesperson for your party. Housing issues and the rental market have been your specialty for many years, and you have been a member of several government investigations that have touched on these issues. You have a strong interest in the construction of society as a whole and in our living environment. Infrastructure with focus on the environment and cycling is especially close to your heart, and you live as you learn by gladly commuting on two wheels. Another issue that you are known to pursue is the rights of our national minorities. You have your own roots in Finland and work actively for the position of Swedish Finns in Sweden. Gender equality and human rights are central components of the society you work for. You believe that freedom and social responsibility can be reconciled. In everything you do, you are committed, thorough, knowledgeable and tough. Thank you very much for your contributions to the Swedish Parliament!
i-4df35d538b68fbda-71	Lars Tysklin d! D u was elected to Parliament in 2002 and has represented the western constituency of Västra Götaland County. In the Riksdag, you have been a member of several committees, including the Environment and Agriculture Committee, the Civil Committee – where we worked together – and the Transport Committee. In recent years, you have been the spokesperson of the Liberals' environmental, climate and agricultural policy. You have also, among other things, been a member of the Swedish delegation of the Nordic Council and of the Environmental Objectives Committee. You have also represented your party in the Parliamentary Board's working group on gender equality under the leadership of the then third vice-president. Your colleagues point out that you are a committed politician, but also an easy-going, hard-working and humble team player who prefers to highlight his team rather than himself. I know that you have a strong commitment to the sea, and you often stress the responsibility of all of us for a cleaner sea – both for people's sake and for all life in the sea. One event that clearly illustrates your work for a sustainable world is that you once volunteered for a three - course dinner made up of insects alone. I think that is a strong proof of a strong commitment! Thank you very much for your contributions to the Swedish Parliament!
i-ALBGchAhJ285yhCBH9SGJR	Marie Granlund! D u entered the Parliament of the Social Democrats in 1994 and has represented the constituency of Malmö Municipality. During your impressive time in Parliament – almost a quarter of a century – you have been chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Education and the EU Board, as well as member of the Committee on Finance and the Advisory Council on Foreign Affairs. You have been your party's spokesperson in a number of areas, such as enterprise policy, education policy, EU issues, and issues relating to employees' rights and the protection of collective agreements. Your great commitment to the Malmö region has concerned, among other things, the issue of making Malmö University a university and getting a police university to Malmö. You are also passionate about business issues, education policy and the Middle East. Lex Laval and the Posting of Workers Directive are issues that have been a particular concern for you, and you are now given the opportunity to go into the latter. On behalf of the Minister for Labour, you will investigate how the EU's revised rules on posted labour are to be implemented in Sweden. Last parliamentary term, you and I worked together in the inquiry into the European Parliament's work. You are a happy, loyal, orderly and multifaceted politician who is always prepared to cut in to a hundred percent. You really live for politics – what you do, you do with great commitment and great drive. I would like to extend my warm thanks to you for your contributions to the Swedish Parliament.
i-4df35d538b68fbda-81	Björn von Sydow! You also entered the Riksdag of the Social Democrats in 1994. You have represented the constituency of Stockholm County. Of course, among all the assignments and offices you have held are the Presidency, for which you have already been thanked, but I would like to add by thanking you for your work as a member of the Swedish Parliament. I myself had the pleasure of working with you when you were Vice-Chairman of Parliament's Constitutional Committee. You were a strong contributor to and an absolutely necessary precondition for the Constitutional Committee's efforts during the previous parliamentary term to return to its legal and constitutional roots. We worked together to create broad consensus and almost unanimous review reports and also sought broad agreement on a number of other important issues. In addition to the assignments mentioned when you were thanked as President, I would like to highlight an ongoing important mission: the Presidency of the Defence Committee. You're cut and cut to lead its work, and I wish you luck in that role. In your speech, Urban Ahlin pointed out that you are an honorary man with great integrity, that you have a warm and caring heart, and that you have an outstanding social ability and a cheerful mood. I am the first to agree with all of this, and I would also like to highlight your broad and deep knowledge and your great analytical ability. When you were detached as President in June, I missed one thing. I was sitting on my bench when the clap-ducks rang and wondered if I should get up and make sure there was a standing ovation, because I thought you deserved it. I was a little late on the ball that time, but now I have a better position. I would ask you to rise and give Björn von Sydow a standing ovation.
i-4df35d538b68fbda-86	With these words, on behalf of the whole Parliament, I would like to extend warm thanks to all of you for your efforts in the service of democracy and for the Swedish Parliament. Thank you for giving of your commitment, your knowledge and your time to make our country better. Being a Member of Parliament is demanding. You are often away from the family several nights a week and sometimes even on weekends. Even when you are at home, your thoughts are often elsewhere because you are in some ongoing negotiation or other work. I would therefore also like to thank your loved ones for having let us borrow you for a number of years in Parliament so that you can contribute to Sweden's development. When you are elected to the Swedish Parliament, you know that the chair you are sitting on in the Chamber is for loan – others have sat on it before, and others will sit on it later. Our democracy lives on, and history never ends. The time in Parliament may be long or short, but it is always limited. The crucial thing is how to manage the confidence gained from the citizens during the time they have the privilege of having this confidence. As has emerged from my speech, all of you individually and together represent many years of commitment, hard work and important efforts for Parliament and for our country. I hope you feel today that you have made a difference, that you have been important and that you have contributed your building blocks to a building that will never be finished – the building we call Sweden. Thank you very much for your efforts!
