i-4e9532553fd45b64-18	Madam President, I would like What a pleasure to begin the first interpellation debate with my old comrades Hans Wallmark and Allan Widman. It'll be a real pleasure. Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to ensure that the government will decide as quickly as possible whether Sweden will accede to or sign the Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. Hans Wallmark has asked me what the timetable is for the upcoming work on Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin's investigation. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. Nuclear weapons are the single greatest threat to humanity, and a single impact would have disastrous humanitarian consequences. The continued existence of the weapon is a failure of the international community. Thanks to diplomatic efforts, the massive nuclear arsenal of the Cold War has largely been dismantled, but the threats remain and many arsenals are being modernised. Our security is promoted by fewer nuclear countries and fewer nuclear weapons. The Government is working with diplomatic as well as political contacts and technical expertise to ensure that Sweden retains its prominent role in disarmament issues, not least in the run-up to the review conference of the NPT in spring 2020. On 18 January, the investigator, Ambassador Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin, presented his report on the consequences of Swedish access to the Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. In accordance with its directives, Lundin describes the consequences of Sweden's disarmament and non-proliferation policy, security and defence cooperation and the legal conditions for Swedish compliance with the Convention. Lundin report has been submitted to 19 authorities and organisations. In addition, there is an opportunity for other organisations to submit comments. The broad consultation process should be seen in the light of the Government's efforts to ensure a comprehensive illumination of this complex issue. The referral deadline is 26 April. Then it becomes necessary for the government to take a stand.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-24	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the answer to my interpellation! Allow me to begin by congratulating the Minister for Foreign Affairs on her return to post before the elections of 9 September last autumn. I share the vision of a nuclear-free world, but it is clear that it must be achieved through mutual trust, trust and balance between the various countries that hold nuclear weapons. The fact that certain countries, such as Western democracies, should go ahead is something that at least the undersigned is concerned about. This must be done with simultaneousness, transparency and reciprocity. Madam President, I would like I've read Ambassador Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin's investigation into the Nuclear Weapons Convention. During my 17 years in Parliament, I have probably never seen an investigator so clearly recommend a no to Swedish access to this convention. According to Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin, the NPT is being undermined. It is also about the difficulties that access for Sweden would entail in terms of our security cooperation. It is my opinion that it is highly unlikely that the government would ultimately propose access to the Convention. It would be quite startling given the clear 'no' that Lundin is delivering. The Minister for Foreign Affairs now refers to the usual round of referrals, and it has now begun. I note, Madam President, that not all investigations concerning the field of work of the Ministry for Foreign Affairs are the subject of a referral. Thus, in recent years both Tomas Bertelman and Ambassador Krister Bringéus have investigated Sweden's security cooperation. As far as I am aware, none of these investigations went out for a referral. Another clear example is the recognition of Palestine. It was not preceded at all by any investigation, by any consultation or for that matter by any foundation in the Riksdag. It was then excellent for the government to make decisions quite immediately. The fact that the proposal is now being referred to and possibly then subject to further preparation now extends the time of uncertainty that has arisen in the eyes of our closest friends. That, Madam President, is something that at least I find sad for our security relations.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-32	Madam President, I would like Over the years, I have come to appreciate Foreign Minister Wallström as a dear person to join in, and this will probably not be an exception. However, I know that Mr Widman usually welcomes the new-old ministers to the House. He did so with Peter Hultqvist, and I would also like to emphasise this time that I am neither welcome nor sorry. This is not my government, and I have by no means made it possible for it to be elected. With regard to the questions that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has to answer, Madam President, I shall use anecdotal evidence. I attended a seminar with quite a few international guests a few weeks ago. The question was then asked: But what does Sweden really think about the nuclear ban, the NPT? The room was quiet. Everyone turned and looked at each other and said: But what does Sweden really think? It is, like Allan Widman at the bottom of smoke, that is the problem. That there is a certain danger in delay. The first interpellation debate that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I had about this agreement was about 20 months ago. Since then this has been ventilated, an investigation has been set up, we have received the results of the investigation and now the investigation is out for consultation. But there's a danger that we don't really know what's going on. Madam President, I would like Investigator Lundin is also quite clear about the objections he raises in his investigation. He clumps them together in different piles. Let me remind you – not so much the Minister for Foreign Affairs because I am absolutely convinced that she knows this – the general public about The need to support more clearly existing disarmament and non-proliferation treaties The need for transitional arrangements for non-nuclear states that have accepted nuclear safeguards from the US in particular due to nuclear threats The need to be clear about what is permitted and what is prohibited in civil society and in defence in view of the Convention's prohibition, such as the components of machine tools that can be exported in the future The need to verify and verify that what is agreed is also respected in order to build confidence that can lead to further negotiations. Madam President, I would like In fact, it spreads great concern within Swedish industry about what a signature could lead to. It is also spreading a great deal of concern within our defence and security cooperation. It is spreading great concern that this can also undermine the very important processes under way in terms of nuclear restrictions, nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. That is why, Madam President, a further number of months added to the last 20 months of uncertainty and uncertainty are harmful to Sweden. This is not in Sweden's interest. Perhaps it is in the interest of the Socialist Party. I, too, read newspapers and see that there are different wills. There are some who think that the agreement should be signed immediately and others who are more pending. This lengthy process is not in Sweden's interest. Madam President, I would like Let me conclude with the waiving words of Ambassador Lundin's investigation, which is the main conclusion of the government's own investigator. The investigator's overall assessment of the impact on Sweden in the three main areas of the Investigation Directive leads to the conclusion that Sweden should neither accede nor sign the Convention in its current form. .....................................................
i-4e9532553fd45b64-45	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a long history of working for peace and disarmament. Not least during the Cold War, we tried to reduce tensions. An agreement that came about during that time – a disarmament agreement between Russia and the United States – the United States has now left. It was just a matter of nuclear weapons. I think we should always fight nuclear weapons. But at this time when we are rather on the road to armament and increased conflicts between major powers in the world, it is particularly important that we stand up for Sweden's long tradition of trying to reduce tensions and disarm. Other weapons of mass destruction have been banned. It's about chemical and biological weapons and cluster bombs. These have been banned. There was, of course, also a debate on this ban. Today we can see the consequences of the ban. The amount of these weapons has decreased dramatically. It is also extremely taboo to use them. Only the suspicion that it will cause a scream. I cannot understand why nuclear weapons should be excluded. Nuclear weapons are by far the worst weapon of mass destruction of all. It creates most destruction. For me, it is very strange if this type of weapon is to be excluded, especially in view of the development in the world of armaments not least of nuclear weapons. Sweden has been a driving force in the UN in developing this Convention on a Nuclear Ban. It would be a shame if we could not also take the full step and support and sign this. Of course, the investigation process should take its course. Now we're going to let the referral bodies have their say. Of course, the government will have to look closely at the investigation and what the consultation bodies say. Then you see how to move forward on this issue. Regardless of where you land, Sweden must hold the flag high when it comes to nuclear bans. It would be a violation of our tradition so far if we were to suddenly stop the resistance. I remember from when I was a kid that I read a story called Sadako and the thousand paper crans. I didn't know at the time that this was a true story but thought it was made up, but regardless of which it was an extremely strong story. It was about a girl who was two years old when they dropped the bombs on Hiroshima. She seemed all right. But later, when she was about the middle - school age, she suffered as a result of leukemia. There was a story that said that if you were sick you would fold 1,000 paper cranes to get well again. Sadako had time to fold over 600. Then she died. But her classmates folded the rest so that there was 1,000 at her funeral. I cried when I was a child, and I almost cry now that I think about this. This shows the terrible effects of nuclear weapons. So many people were murdered at once. But many also died later, even descendants of those who died at that time. That is why I think we should continue the fight against nuclear weapons.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-54	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your kind words! It was almost a bit unreal to hear two members of Parliament describe it as a danger that we have both conducted an investigation and sent it out for a referral. It sounds like Sweden's security policy would now be decided because there are two months left of the consultation period. Firstly, this has not entered into force, and everyone knows that this is a process that has been going on for a long time and will continue for a while. It is also questioned that we appointed an investigator with the argument that it should have done this with other things as well. In fact, I thought that this was part of our democratic system, and particularly on an issue that we know is involving the Swedish people. I think you know that when you measure the attitude on this particular issue, it does not go in the direction that Allan Widman and Mr Wallmark are talking about. I've met some of these so-called hibakushas. They have heartbreaking stories. What they describe is precisely that this is passed on from one generation to another. It is something that a person, a family and a country have to live with for a very long time. We know this now, and we've seen it. We've seen the consequences. I would also like to say something about what Hillevi Larsson mentioned. We have a very long tradition in Sweden of this. I also believe that there are expectations of us continuing to stand up to fight for peace and disarmament, particularly with regard to nuclear weapons. Our security is promoted by fewer nuclear countries and fewer nuclear weapons. That is why we have had a strong political commitment. We have had world-class technical expertise that has helped in various areas. For this government's security and foreign policy, nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation are a key priority. Let me also say something about the things that we did in the previous period and that we will continue to engage in regardless of how we finally decide on this convention. It's just a tool of many. We are committed to promoting the implementation of the NPT. It is in this that the nuclear states have made clear commitments to disarmament, but that is not going well. That is also the truth, which is the irony of all of this. We are happy to talk about the Convention, but at the same time we do not see the nuclear states showing any willingness to contribute to the preparation of the Non-Proliferation Treaty. We are working to reduce the risks of nuclear weapons use, especially in terms of reducing the level of preparedness in their arsenals. Today, it is time frames of the order of five to ten minutes that can determine the future of mankind. This poses considerable risks of misdecision. On this issue, we are very active. We also work with the verification tools, which check compliance with agreements. This is where we will continue. We also have a long tradition in this area. Then we are engaged in international cooperation on these issues and will continue to be so. This is not least about the work for a peaceful settlement of the conflict in the Korean Peninsula, which is, of course, aimed at the disarmament of the DPRK's nuclear arsenal. So we will continue, and you will see it during the next parliamentary term. This will definitely be a priority for this government.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-66	Madam President, I would like I too was touched by Hillevi Larsson's story. There is no doubt that the fight against nuclear weapons will continue. What it's all about is how it's going to continue. Hillevi Larsson mentions anti-personnel mines, i.e. the Ottawa Convention, cluster weapons and the Oslo Process. It is a sad truth that many of the large countries do not assist these conventions. Russia does not assist any of them. Hillevi Larsson also mentions the fact that the US is now transparently leaving the INF agreement, i.e. the ban on medium-range nuclear weapons, which was a major issue during the 80s and 90s of the Cold War. That's right. The United States does this formally. However, I believe that even the Minister for Foreign Affairs can confirm that Russia has had robots of a kind that are in conflict with the INF agreement for several years. Madam President, I would like It is important to remember that none of the world's nuclear nations have any plans to accede to the convention we are discussing here. If Sweden were to take office – I understand that the Foreign Minister is still keeping that door open somewhere – it would be very difficult to participate in exercises with us for countries with which we cooperate closely in terms of defence and security within the framework of the EU and the NATO partnership, namely the USA, the United Kingdom and France. These countries, like Russia and China, have a long tradition of never confirming or re-establishing the existence of nuclear weapons on board their ships or aircraft. Since we do not have a military exchange with Russia, only the United States, the United Kingdom and France will find it increasingly difficult to cooperate with. I know that Minister Hultqvist sees these countries as incredibly important for Swedish security and international cooperation. Madam President, I would like I wondered why the investigations on Sweden's security policy relations carried out by ambassadors Bertelman and Bringéus were never sent for referral. It was during the Foreign Minister's time that this preparation took place in the Government Office. I would have liked to have been able to hear an objective reason why they do not go for a referral while this one is going to do so. As Hans Wallmark was concerned with, the uncertainty as to where Sweden is on this issue is further extended.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-71	Madam President, I would like Hillevi Larsson brings us into the deeply emotional dimension. I am one of those who grew up in the 1970s, when there was a completely different awareness of the hellweapon of nuclear weapons. We had different clocks that we looked at and where we could see how close we were to noon. For a while, it was eerie close. We can be very happy that many who have grown up in recent years have had a watch that has not been quite as close to midnight as when we grew up in the 70s. That is why what the Foreign Minister may say is perhaps the central point, namely that we have all tried in different ways to reduce the proliferation of nuclear weapons. Sweden has been a leader, regardless of governments. There is broad political agreement on this. What is our challenge, Madam President, is that things are going the wrong way now. We are seeing the development of nuclear weapons in North Korea. We are discussing the so-called nuclear agreement with Iran. We have a neighbouring country, Russia, where we see a new modernisation programme coupled with a very frivolous nuclear rhetoric that there is every reason to be worried about. So, unfortunately, there are many steps that are going in the absolutely wrong direction. That's where I find Ambassador Lundin's investigation interesting. Let us not now undermine the processes that exist, that is what he says. Then it is worth remembering that the nuclear-bearing states are not included in this so-called nuclear-weapon agreement – not the United States, not Russia, not France, not the United Kingdom, not China. Therefore, it is important to keep track of the cutlery and continue with the Swedish contribution to international policy, namely to seriously contribute to a non-proliferation agreement and seriously contribute to restrictions. Hillevi Larsson mentioned this with medium-range robots. I assume, just as Allan Widman was aware, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs shares the view that crime is probably already taking place here through the testing of abilities of different robot types in Russia. This is what gives us cause for concern in Europe. I also think that there is every reason for the Foreign Minister to reply politely to the question put by Allan Widman that one of the investigations is for referral but not the other two. I would also like to emphasise, Madam President, that I think it was a good thing that this investigation was carried out. I think it is a good thing about the outcome that Lundin has achieved and the process that has taken place, not least because, as I see it, what stopped rather far-reaching plans to approve the agreement and possibly start ratification. Madam President, I would like My question to the Foreign Minister was about what the timetable is now. It's been 20 months now. The answers will be received on 26 April. I think it is important that the government then decides rather quickly. If you do not want to go further, it is entirely up to the government, which has the executive power. If you want to go further, you must also hear the Riksdag. Then I think it will be seen and heard misgivings. A stable tip, Madam President, is that it will be difficult to get the Riksdag on approval and ratification of this agreement – precisely on the grounds presented by Ambassador Lundin, the government's own investigator. However, it is important for me that the timetable be clarified. I assume that no later than this summer we will know exactly what the government is choosing.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-78	Madam President, I would like There are many different interpretations of whether we and others can join this Convention. Among other things, there is an investigation called In the shadow of power. Among other things, people from Harvard Law School are behind it. There are also scientists from Norway who have looked at this issue and concluded that even NATO countries could accede to this Nuclear Weapons Convention as long as nuclear weapons are not used in the name of that country. So the interpretations differ. We will also see what the consultation bodies say about the investigation that the government has on its table. For my part, there is no doubt that Sweden must continue in its lead in the work against nuclear weapons. What are we going to tell our children in the future? How did Sweden act in a time of armament, when the nuclear threat was again growing? I think we should tell our children that we fought against that development and for peace. So far, we have never had reason to regret the work that Sweden has done for peace and disarmament. I am convinced that we will not regret it in the future either. In 2017, the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to the international campaign against nuclear weapons. Among other things, Setsuko Thurlow has been the driving force in this work. Today she is 85 years old and is one of the few survivors of the terrible tragedies in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Her story from her experience as a 13-year-old should all listen to. It's so horrible and terrible. That is why the fight must now be about this never happening again.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-81	Madam President, and Mr Wallmark. Last year the doomsday clock was moved forward for one minute, and the risk is that it will soon be moved forward for another minute. We agree on the devastating role of nuclear weapons. At the same time, you want to join NATO. Why do you think that the countries that Mr Wallmark listed were not involved in this work and are not in the debate? And why did some of the Swedish parties also silence in the debate on nuclear weapons? Because NATO told me to. You want to stand under a nuclear umbrella. That is, of course, the explanation for taking such a position. Reasons have to go together. There has been very little involvement in the nuclear issue since all parties in the opposition decided that NATO was the answer to all our security challenges. But I think you have to show some moral strength there, too. The risk of nuclear weapons actually being used, intentionally or unintentionally, is now considered to be greater than ever since the Cold War. We really must take this threat seriously. One element of development is the investment that nuclear weapons countries are currently making to develop new types of nuclear capabilities and which are intended for warfare rather than strategic deterrence. Nuclear weapons are given a more prominent role, and it does not inspire confidence that nuclear weapons states will live up to their commitments, for example under the Non-Proliferation Treaty. There are some who believe that they should be accused of this, particularly with regard to Article 6 on mutual disarmament. The INF agreement, which has regulated the strategic nuclear arsenals in particular, and the new Start-up has helped us to have global and European security and a reduced threat from nuclear weapons in Europe. I share the view on the cause of the crisis in the INF agreement: it is Russia's long-term crime against the agreement through the development and deployment of INF-breaking robotic systems. That is why it is so important that the US and Russia now agree to at least extend the new Start to 2026. It would be responsible, and it would also contribute to better conditions for the NPT Review Conference. The trend of less cooperation and the withdrawal from international cooperation needs to be reversed, and we need to find new ways forward. Sweden has strong security policy reasons to do so, preferably together with Nordic and other European partners. We are already conducting such talks with Germany, for example. It is our collective responsibility to do everything we can to avoid a new nuclear armament.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-87	Madam President, I would like I think it was excellent that the Foreign Minister pointed out that Russia has been violating the INF agreement for a long time. In fact, the reason for my political commitment at all at once, because what is now quite a long time ago, was precisely the armament of nuclear weapons in Europe. Pershing II and SS-20 were their names back then. I therefore have the same objectives as the Foreign Minister, and I also share her view that the reason why the NATO countries in Europe do not sign or join the Commission is that they want to feel that they are under a nuclear umbrella. I suppose that is exactly the same logic behind Finland's failure to accede to the Convention. There is no other Nordic country either. It is said that in the 1950s, Tage Erlander was asked by a journalist: What does the Prime Minister do if Moscow threatens a nuclear attack? Then Tage Erlander replied: Yes, I will call Washington. It is my belief that this has been so for a very long time and that we have been able to enjoy security, especially in times of nuclear rhetoric, which we are now faced with more or less daily on the part of Russia. Madam President, I would like I have asked why certain investigations involving the Ministry for Foreign Affairs are being referred and others do not. I note that I have still not heard any factual argument for this difference in the preparation process. Finally, I would like to remind you that the one who really shook life in the vision of a nuclear-free world was former President Barack Obama. He did it today. I am happy to share the ambition with the Foreign Minister: let us follow his good example and his vision!
i-4e9532553fd45b64-94	Madam President, I would like This is the sad fact: the doomsday clock is ticking in the wrong direction. That is why we should seriously consider what it is that makes it possible for us to stop ticking and at best turn it back. Madam President, I would like The world as it looks now is really pretty angry. I am thinking of the development of nuclear weapons by North Korea, the attempts to curb Iran's nuclear programme, the frivolous rhetoric that Russia uses towards its neighbours and the equipment that is so very close to us, in Kaliningrad. That is why I share the assessment made by Allan Widman, namely that it is good that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is clear that Russia has undermined and undermined the important agreement between Ronald Reagan and Michail Gorbatjov that came in place 25 to 30 years ago. This is what we should be thinking about: What can really lead us to do something about this devil weapon? It is therefore notable that we have now debated this for about 30 minutes and that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has so far not really touched on any of the issues raised by Ambassador Lundin in his investigation. These are the possible threats that this poses to the current process of undermining it. This risks threatening Swedish defence and security cooperation, and if Sweden were to sign and ratify the agreement, it would also pose a risk for Swedish industry in collaboration with other countries' industry. These are real things. Madam President, I would like I assume that it is precisely this type of objection that the government itself will use in cases where it does not proceed with signing and ratifying. That's why there's every reason to have a serious conversation. I assume that we know a little more after the end of April about how to relate to the investigation and its results. If you do not move forward, the government is completely free to end the process itself. If you want to move on, you have to come to Parliament.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-100	Madam President, I would like It is out of respect for the process we do this, and I suppose you would have answered the same thing if you had been in a government position. If you have a proposal and send it out for consultation, you give all the organisations concerned the opportunity to make comments, and then you weigh it together. There will certainly be a lively debate, and then the government will of course take a decision as soon as possible. We have no reason to delay this in any way. But I have full respect for the democratic process and will absolutely be loyal to it. You have a small problem with credibility. I believe you when you say that you feel for Hillevis's story or for these facts. After all, however, you want to join NATO, and NATO is based on nuclear deterrence. You want to put yourself under a nuclear umbrella. For our part, we remain at the military freedom of alliance, which we believe gives Sweden the greatest flexibility and also the greatest security. It is incompatible with NATO membership. We must follow our convictions and consider whether it is really more nuclear weapons and a nuclear umbrella that makes us safer. Or is it just the opposite? There we are. We have chosen to make disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons a clear political priority. This is one of many tools. The most important are in the Non-Proliferation Treaty and in the existing agreements that we shall be looking after. The driving force has been the realization of the horrendous humanitarian consequences that any use of nuclear weapons would have. But it is just as much about Swedish and international security, so our disarmament policy is an integral part of our security policy.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-104	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to ensure that, in the event of a possible British withdrawal from the EU, the UK is immediately covered by a Swedish declaration of solidarity such as Sweden has addressed to the members of the EU and the Nordic countries. The UK is an important partner country for Sweden. Our countries have a significant consensus on matters on the whole political agenda, not least in the area of foreign and security policy. Our cooperation is based on a solid basis of common core values, not least the belief in and protection of the rule-based world order and the European security regime. We cooperate frequently and closely, both bilaterally and multilaterally. Sweden and the United Kingdom have worked closely together within the common security and defence policy within the EU. Against this background, the government attaches great importance to ensuring a close partnership between the EU and the UK in the field of foreign and security policy, whether the UK is a member of the EU or not. This ambition is expressed, inter alia, by the fact that Sweden belongs to the Member States that are the EU's hardest driving force for EU defence cooperation, such as Pesco and the proposed European Defence Fund, to enable close cooperation also with partners and entities outside the Union. Here, the government has particularly highlighted the Pesco project on military mobility in Europe, where it is essential that countries such as the United Kingdom, the United States and Norway can be included in the work. In the framework of the November agreement on the withdrawal agreement, the EU and the United Kingdom agreed on a joint political declaration on what to achieve with the future relationship. Sweden worked to make that text as ambitious and transparent as possible, not least in the field of foreign and security policy. There is therefore a good basis for negotiations on future agreements. It is against this background that discussions concerning the EU's foreign and security policy relationship with the UK following a British withdrawal from the EU are intended to be conducted jointly by the other 27 EU Member States. Madam President, I would like Sweden and the United Kingdom also cooperate closely in other multilateral contexts, for example within the framework of Sweden's partnership with NATO. This was made clear in connection with last autumn's NATO exercise, Trident Juncture 2018, when a large number of British troops were transported through Sweden as part of the exercise. The UK is making important contributions to the security of our neighbourhood, including in the context of NATO's presence and exercises in the Baltic Sea region. Cooperation in the Northern Group is also an example of multilateral cooperation with the United Kingdom. In the Northern Group, Sweden, together with the UK, contributes to a common understanding of security and defence policy issues in our common neighbourhood. Bilaterally, Sweden has significantly deepened its security and defence policy relationship with the UK in recent years. Since 2016, Sweden and the United Kingdom have a far-reaching bilateral cooperation programme, and we have been participating since June 2017 in the UK's Joint Expeditionary Force. The UK is one of the countries most closely associated with the Swedish Armed Forces. Whether the UK is a member of the European Union or not, our good cooperation on a bilateral basis and in the various multilateral forums I have mentioned here will of course continue. It is cooperation based on solidarity, common interests and a shared strong commitment to the European security regime. Madam President, I would like The British EU accession raises the question of whether our national solidarity declaration, which today includes the Nordic and EU countries, should be adjusted to continue to include the UK. The government's basic position is clear. Our solidarity with Britain is strong. Among other things, we showed this after the neurotoxin attack in Salisbury. The Swedish Declaration of Solidarity is a cornerstone of our foreign and security policy. Any amendment to our declaration of solidarity is preceded by broad security policy discussions and foundations in the Riksdag and takes place in transparency with those countries, not least our EU partners, which are affected by a declaration of solidarity. According to the instructions for the Swedish Defence Committee's work, the preparation must present its assessment of security policy developments and coherent consequences for Swedish defence and security policy. I look forward to the preparation report later this spring.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-114	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer to the interpellation. That was a long answer to a rather short interpellation. Surely it is not without my almost throwing a thought back to the previous debate with all these kind words. The UK is also a nuclear country, but I share the assessment that the Foreign Minister makes it incredibly important for Sweden to have close relations with this country in both the defence and security fields. The answer mentioned when British units were transported through Sweden, and yes, there we have, as it were, one of the possible complications that might result from access to the convention that we are not now going to debate. I regret, however, that the Foreign Minister cannot give a positive answer here. It is my opinion that if Sweden had made a declaration of solidarity, as we did last time unilaterally, with the United Kingdom before a possible Brexit, I think other countries had seen this example and followed it. Instead, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is now referring to the Committee on Defence, which, Madam President, was a group that she called a working group a little over 14 months ago in Sälen. It is true that the defence preparation is very likely to come with a final report by mid-May, but at that time the UK may already have left the European Union. On March 29, this may happen. If you are to wait for the Defence Committee and then a possible preparation and perhaps a foundation in Parliament, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs suggests in his reply, we will land somewhere by the end of 2020, because that is when the next defence decision will be taken. I deeply regret this timing, because I think it is harmful both to us and to the United Kingdom. According to the form of government, it is the government that is responsible for foreign policy. I understand that this consequence of Brexit has been forgotten, namely that Britain is no longer covered by our declaration of solidarity. But I am in fact saddened that time is not being used to act. I believe that the issue in this House is rather uncontroversial, and I think it is rather uncontroversial also in the Government Office.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-119	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I think it is a tricky question that Allan Widman travelled here. I will honestly admit that until he wrote his interpellation, I would not have thought about it either, but we have all been so absorbed, Madam President, not least by the economic consequences of Brexit and by what is happening to our citizens and with mobility in Europe. That has indeed been what has taken up our time, but this is an absolutely relevant perspective that Mr Widman highlights. I have to say, however, that although I understand the criticism that Allan Widman is making to the Foreign Minister regarding the timing, I think that there are essential elements in the foreign minister's response that are good. It makes clear how extremely important the UK is to Sweden, not least about what the Minister for Foreign Affairs emphasises about what we call the Northern Group. I am among those who believe that one consequence of Brexit, which we can regret and which will create problems for Europe and for Sweden, but which is ultimately to be dealt with by the British people and the British Government, is that they will try to invest more time and energy in various forms of defence and security cooperation. When you have a looser economic relationship, you will in other ways clarify your contacts and relations with other countries. Then I think it's important to have this perspective, we were looking for our security for Swedish people. I believe it is in the Baltic Sea region. It is in the Nordic countries, in the Baltics and then in the countries that are close to us: Poland, Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Therefore, I think that Allan Widman's question about a declaration of solidarity also with the United Kingdom deserves to be taken very seriously. It's a way of tying up ties, tying up that community. Some of these countries will be present in both the EU and NATO: Norway, Denmark, the Baltic States, Germany and Poland. Some will be in the EU but not in NATO: unfortunately Sweden and Finland. Some will not be in the EU, but still in NATO: Norway and the United Kingdom. Therefore, I think it is important to shape this network of defence and security. So there is every reason to encourage the government to be a little more benevolent to the Liberals and Allan Widman on this particular point. Then you have another 73 points to discuss, but we can leave that to you in this interpellation debate. Madam President, I would like Finally, I think it is a good thing that the Foreign Minister clearly points out against the neurotoxin attack in Salisbury. It was directed at two people, and quite unintentionally and deeply tragically one person was killed. But even if it was on a very small scale, it's a chemical-weapon attack on our continent. It's basically terrible. In the previous interpellation debate, we talked about nuclear weapons. But here it is chemical weapons, which someone has proven to have used. It is therefore a good thing that, country after country, we stood up clearly behind Britain when they were subjected to this tremendous attack by the Russian side against people in their country. Madam President, I would like Let us all be encouraged by Allan Widman's desire for a declaration of solidarity and try to find faster ways of giving birth to it.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-128	Madam President, I would like Yeah, that's a long answer. I thought you might be able to figure out that it was a way of describing our long-standing, deep and friendly relationship with the United Kingdom. Now that there are only less than seven weeks left before the planned exit from the EU, the circumstances and conditions for such exit are still unclear. First of all, we do not know exactly how it will happen. But we know that there will be consequences in many areas. You're in a very hurry today, Allan Widman and Hans Wallmark. You think everything should happen much faster. I can comfort both of you that of course we have also given a lot of thought to this issue. But our starting point is that we need to confer with the Riksdag and of course get the Defence Committee's view on this. Surely it is very reasonable for the Committee on Defence to look at just declarations of solidarity and what will happen if we now see a withdrawal. But we also need to confer with our European partners. We think that we should think that this is an adjustment to our declaration of solidarity, and that cannot happen in a vacuum. It should be a political signal in a broader context and should be coordinated with our European friends. This does not only apply to Sweden's relationship with the United Kingdom. It is also about how the EU as an institution, like the individual EU countries, should react to the UK after a British EU exit. That is why we believe that such a process must take place in transparency with other countries, especially with our European partners. These are complex issues that need to be addressed. And the conditions are very different for the EU countries. Some, as Mr Wallmark rightly points out, are in NATO. Others have close bilateral relations with the United Kingdom. Therefore, we think that we can wait a month or a few more months here, too, until the Committee on Defence comes up with its proposal. We believe that it will benefit from being well thought out and well established by all those who will be involved. However, the signal should still have emerged in terms of our attitude to and cooperation with the United Kingdom. We have also reacted very strongly, as Mr Wallmark said, to the fact that such a completely insane attack could take place in Britain. We have acted accordingly and demonstrated our solidarity with the United Kingdom.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-134	Madam President, I would like I lived in the belief that our declaration of solidarity, which came to a good moment before the Treaty of Lisbon and the elsewhere-being solidarity clause in Article 42, was something that Sweden did completely alongside the European Union. The same is true when we entered the Joint Expeditionary Force, which has no links with the EU, and when we entered the Northern Group or the Northern Group, which is led by the UK and has nothing to do with the EU either. I cannot quite understand why we should deliberate with and possibly leave it to other Member States of the European Union to have views on this. Madam President, I would like I say this even though I am a very strong friend of the European Union. I believe that even in that circle it would have been completely uncontroversial if Sweden had done this. The Secretary of State says at the end that we may be a few more months and wait for the Defense Committee. Yes, we can do that. But one important point is lost. This type of security policy relationship should, in order to use a modern expression, be seamless. There need be no vacuum, not even a tendency to uncertainty. My view is that if you can act prematurely, you should do so. However, I have received answers from the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I myself am a member of the Defense Committee and should perhaps take it as a compliment that this decision is partly left to me. This particular time, however, I would have preferred the government to take precedence. Madam President, I would like There is every reason to condemn what happened in Salisbury. It was also with some horror that around Christmas time I read that Russia Today sent a chocolate cathedral for Christmas that represented the Salisbury Cathedral to its mass media colleagues in Russia. Unfortunately, it gives a frightening picture of the mood that we currently have in the world.
i-KBeSrCTtCDpATMd6NfpCut	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Allan Widman and Hans Wallmark! At present, we do not even know how the withdrawal will take place. It is clear that it is an advantage that we are preparing as carefully as we can at all, that we are talking to our European partners and that we are allowing the Defence Committee to look at it. If we had not done so, I think you would have complained about it in this House. There's a big risk for that. I always think it's safer to anchor our view of it. Nor could the message be clearer on your part. You have also understood our direction and that we appreciate the cooperation with the United Kingdom. Sweden will continue to value it and the mutual interest we have in a security and defence policy in Europe. Our cooperation allows us to be close. In crisis management operations and other things, we have also worked very well together. We will take this time and try to be as well prepared as we can. We also hope that we get a wise point of view from the Defence Committee. We want to ensure a close partnership with the UK, and between the EU and the UK, in the field of foreign and security policy, whether the UK is a member of the EU or not.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-142	Madam President, I would like Magnus Jacobsson has asked me what I am doing to make it easier for the citizens of Kosovo to obtain visa-free access within the EU. The Western Balkans is an important region for the EU and for Sweden. The development there has a direct impact on us in both a positive and a negative direction. The EU process of rapprochement is one of the main drivers of continued stability and democratic and economic development in the Western Balkans and is the basis of government policy towards the region. The objective of EU membership has motivated the countries to implement reforms that contribute, inter alia, to strengthening the rule of law, strengthening the protection of human rights and enhancing economic integration with the EU. I agree with the interpellant's view that increased trade and other relations are a long-term contribution to deepening peace. Sweden supports the EU approach of the Western Balkan countries, both politically and through bilateral reform cooperation. The Swedish reform cooperation with Kosovo started back in 1998 and amounted to SEK 95 million in 2018. The support focuses on reforms that contribute to economic development, strengthening democracy and the protection of human rights, improving the environment and reducing climate impact. Some 20 Swedes, such as police and prosecutors, also participate in the EU Rule of Law operation EULEX, which contributes to strengthening Kosovo as the rule of law. Sweden and Kosovo have a close relationship, not least through the more than 40 000 people of cosovar origin who form an important part of Swedish society. Sweden is engaged in a close dialogue with Kosovo on its EU approach and development. Within the EU, Sweden is driving the EU to play an active role in the Western Balkans. Visa freedom contributes to greater integration and forms an important part of the EU's policy towards the region. For the five countries of the Western Balkans that have already been granted visa-free access to the EU, it has been a clear confirmation of the EU's commitment. Sweden actively pursued the visa issue during our EU Presidency in 2009, when Serbia, Macedonia and Montenegro were granted visa-free status. At the same time, it is essential that careful risk assessments are carried out before EU decisions are taken and that the measures implemented by the countries in question to prevent abuse of the visa-free regime have the intended effect. In order to obtain visa-free status, Western Balkan countries have implemented reforms to meet criteria in areas such as combating corruption, organised crime and irregular migration. The European Commission has the task of monitoring and regularly reporting on compliance with the criteria. In a report of July 2018, the European Commission assessed that Kosovo has met the criteria for visa-free status. It is now up to the Member States to take a position on the Commission's assessment and to analyse the risks that a decision on visa waiver would entail. The government's position is that we can support visa-free status for Kosovo when the criteria are implemented and identified risks, such as the risk of an increased number of unfounded asylum applications from Kosovo, have been dealt with in an acceptable manner. The issue is currently being addressed within the Government Office, and a security and migration related analysis is ongoing.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-148	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Minister Wallström for her reply. I am pleased to note that we seem to agree on the matter. At the same time, I see that the Government does not promise when visa freedom can be introduced, but the Government refers to the fact that it is being investigated within the Government Office. I understand that there may be concerns about unfounded asylum applications, but we can quite easily deal with that by stating that Kosovo is today a safe country to live and live in, which means that we can be clear that citizens from Kosovo will not get asylum in Sweden. Concerns about non-regime applications must not result in trade and inter-human relations being made more difficult. Madam President, I would like After the collapse of Yugoslavia, we saw how different forms of political movements used nationalism to strengthen their own national identity. Although national mobilization can lead to positive developments for an individual country, nationalism is a force that can also be used to create conflict. Unfortunately, the political leaders of the 1990s in the Balkans chose to use nationalism to mobilize against each other, resulting in a number of bloody wars, where former friends and neighbors were pitted against each other. After these wars, the EU has tried to use its institutions and the single market to create the conditions for a long-term peace in the Balkans. That is a good thing, since trade and interdependence have proved to be one of the best peace-keeping incentives. However, the dark shadow of nationalism has not left this part of Europe, but we see how different countries and political representatives continue to cultivate their own distinctiveness in conflict with the interests of others. This means that there is a risk of new conflicts in the Balkans. Some conflict risks have been dealt with by changing borders and by changing names, which is a good thing, as we must do everything in our power to avoid further wars in this part of Europe. But we also see how Kosovo has been more difficult than other countries when it has been blocked from participating in various international institutions. It is from this perspective that we need to look at the issue of visas. By facilitating the movement of Kosovo's citizens in Europe, our common trade will increase, thus contributing to the development of a stable economy in Kosovo. An improved domestic economy will make more young people choose to remain in the country, which in itself leads to continued development and increased stability. Madam President, I would like In addition to the political complications that exist in this region, there are religious aspects that should be taken into account. It is no secret that there are those who want to use religious backgrounds to strengthen their own interest. Just as nationalism can be used to build a country, or to create conflicts between neighbors, religion can lift people in everyday life or become a breeding ground for suspicion and, at worst, war and conflict. Accelerating the visa-free process will give Kosovo's young people a better opportunity to work and study within the EU, which will in itself result in more businesses and a better economy in Kosovo. We can thus contribute to stability by encouraging trade and inter-human relations. I therefore hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government will speed up the process of granting Kosovo's citizens visa-free status in Sweden and within the EU.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-156	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for the interpellation response! Some form of the Nobel Peace Prize should be given to anyone who can interpret my notes. Here it is important to have simultaneous ability. I would like to start by thanking Magnus for the question he is asking. This is an incredibly important issue. I am pleased that there are several in this House, from both blocs, who think that this issue is important for both Kosovo and the Western Balkans. We have the privilege of living in a very small country, with 10 million people. We're pretty good in the world. Much is because we have the ability to stick together, especially on these international issues. We usually try to anchor those questions, because it gives us strength. Today, the issue concerns Kosovo and visa freedom. We must not forget that Kosovo is a small country. Kosovo was in full war some 20 years ago. In fact, Kosovo turned eleven this week, which is very big for them. It will be celebrated at the embassy, both me and Magnus will participate. You have a lot to be proud of, but of course you are not entirely satisfied with the development that has been in the country. We are talking about a country with 2 million inhabitants who, as I said, suffered a war. 13,000 died, and women were raped. Many people are still missing today. I often meet different people down there because I was also born there. What I'm glad to hear is that they keep up hope. Part of that hope is for the European Union. Many others turn their heads away from the EU, but down there they still want nothing but to belong to the EU family. What often hurts and worries me is that if we are not there and show that we really want this, there are other forces that want them to turn the other way. Now they're so West-friendly that it looks very, very good. They have met the criteria set by the European Commission. They are now largely waiting for the Member States and the European Parliament to be responsible for what this looks like. I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Sweden are fighting quite hard on this issue. I also know that it is not directly we who have resisted, but there are others in Europe who do so for various reasons. After all, there are still some countries in the EU that have not recognised the country of Kosovo. Fortunately, however, a majority of UN countries have said yes. Furthermore, the International Court of Justice in The Hague has said that under international law Kosovo had the right to declare independence, so there is much to be welcomed. Something that you have in common with Sweden, which may not have anything to do with the issue, is that you are completely absurdly good at music exports. Dua Lipa, Rita Ora, Bebe Rexha with several tops lists all over the world, so it's going well for this little country. However, it would have been extremely nice for them to have the visa waiver, precisely to get something that shows that the European Union actually wants to have them in the family. I am pleased with the Minister's reply and, as I said, I know that such work is going on. I am also very pleased that Magnus Jacobsson and others are pushing the issue, because we need to show them that we are seeing them.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-165	Madam President, I would like Thanks to both Magnus Jacobsson and Adnan Dibrani for this commitment! It greatly facilitates our work on these issues. It was not that long ago that I visited Kosovo, and what is being thought of then is precisely the confidence in the future of young people and their willingness to seek and belong to the European Union and Europe, as well as, of course, very strong feelings as it always is in this area. We must build on this, and we believe that it is also in the interests of the whole of the European Union to try to act as conflict prevention and to link the countries of the Western Balkans as close as possible to us at all. There is a need for democratic and economic development, and we also contribute money, investment and projects in many different ways. Who knows, now that you have musicians who are establishing themselves internationally, this may also become a major future industry in Kosovo. We also have a long tradition in the European Union of being enlargement-friendly, and we have given support to the countries of the Western Balkans in their European approach. Even when I was working for the UN, I was there precisely in the light of living with memories of abuse and violence, and it is still so alive and so close to people. We also have to take this into account. One of the three objectives of our reform work with Kosovo is precisely economic development, as Magnus Jacobsson also mentioned, and we have been the driving force for the introduction of the so-called European reform agenda. There we support the Innovation Centre Kosovo, which is an incubator for young entrepreneurs. We have also contributed to the establishment of the Kosovo Credit Guarantee Fund, which makes it possible to finance small and medium-sized enterprises in Kosovo and their activities. This is needed for stability in the country, peaceful development and all that. Then it is a question of reviewing the visa opportunity. The Commission launched the visa-free dialogue in 2012, which is why Kosovo has undertaken efforts, inter alia, to fight corruption and organised crime. They have also ratified the border drawing agreement with Montenegro. The risks of visa-free travel and what is being looked at now in the Government Office are about increasing irregular migration and if there is a huge number of unfounded asylum applications. There may also be an increase in the number of serious crimes linked to citizens there or a deterioration in readmission cooperation. That is why we need to look at this. I believe, however, that we will not drag it unnecessarily for a long time, but it is important that we deal with the issue. But it is currently being done in a process in the Government Office, and I believe that your commitment and your arguments are also important for this debate and for the process ahead.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-172	Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to thank you for the answer, which I sincerely feel is positive and very honest and genuine. I think we can afford to say this in this House. I have a little story about this myself. At the end of the 1990s, I was President of the KDU and was then privileged to meet some of those who actually fled the Balkans. I was out in refugee camps and feel from the debate that was then again very much in the debate that is going on now. The difference is that then we were more able to deal with the situation in unity, including in this House. I also had the privilege of sitting in Parliament in 1998-2002 as the first Christian Democratic Federal President, and even then I was committed to these issues. I have had the privilege of travelling in the Baltics and Ukraine in particular and have also been in the Balkans, and that was no better – I was saying – than this travel and activity in the political sphere led me to actually marry a woman from Estonia. This makes me travel a lot to Estonia, and I have many good friends from the Balkans. In fact, I also have grandchildren from the Balkans. I compare a great deal of Estonia's development, as I have seen for almost 15 years, with Kosovo's development. There are great similarities between the countries. I do not want to start a NATO debate now, but it is about the will to join both the EU and NATO. Estonia was allowed to join the EU and NATO, while Kosovo longs for it. The population is about the same size. You have about the same experience of insecurity. Estonia is experiencing insecurity in relation to Russia. Kosovo is experiencing insecurity in relation to Serbia. We in Sweden have in both cases worked genuinely with assistance. We have worked supportively, we have worked preventively and we have worked with democracy education. I believe that most of the political youth associations and parties have worked with democratic aid and have worked actively for stability in Europe, and I believe that most of us feel a tremendous sadness that during the 1990s we were struck by the war that became. After World War II, we never thought again, never again. When comparing Estonia and Kosovo, I feel that one of the really big differences is that Europe was faster to bring Estonia in. Reasons, for example, for unfounded asylum applications or for people to leave the Baltic countries are about the same as is currently the case for parts of the Balkans. Reasons about criminal gangs and crime are about the same. With my wife and I dating each other before Estonia joined the EU, I know what it was like for her just to come here to Stockholm and what questions she faced, just because she came from Estonia. So it is a bit the same phenomenon, and for me this is quite personal in the sense that I genuinely believe in trade. I believe in the European ideas that with free trade and cooperation we can develop a long-term peace. I am a historian in my academic education, and I can see that Europe has never had such a long time of peace as after the Second World War. It is the longest period of stability, and that is why I also apostrophated the dark side of nationalism. Somewhere we have to admit that the freedom we have built up with trade and values has given us a fantastic development. I would also like to see these developments in the Balkans, which is why visa freedom is important.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-180	Madam President, I would like As I said, I am very pleased that I live in a country such as Sweden, which really sees the importance of dealing with each other, which looks at the importance of having an open and tolerant society and which looks at the importance of having a Western Balkans close to the European Union. Regardless of who has ruled this country, we have stood up for an enlargement process to the extent that the EU is capable of doing so. Today, the European Union is not quite where it was a few years ago and has a lot to deal with. However, this issue must not be stopped or kidnapped because of it, which it has tended to do. All other countries down in the Balkans have visa-free status. Virtually everyone in Europe travels freely – except for the 2 million people in Kosovo. That is why this issue is very important to them. It is about being able to travel around, greet relatives and friends, shop and create contacts and thus become dependent on each other and be able to achieve exactly what Magnus Jacobsson talks about here: lasting peace. It is only so, when we meet across borders, that we can see the value of each other and appreciate each other in a completely different way. I have several times, almost every time I'm down there, pointed out to them that many years ago Sweden and Denmark didn't like each other very much, but today they would never do without each other. It is tough for them down there to hear, but I think it is important for them to realise that without reconciliation with the countries around them they will never be able to join the European Union. This applies to all countries down in the Balkans. Now I had the privilege of joining the Foreign Minister on a trip down to the Western Balkans, where we discussed visa freedom but also the name issue for Greece and Macedonia and so on. There's a lot going in the right direction. I just wish we continued to push the issue – and I know you will do so in the future, Mrs Wallström.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-184	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magnus Jacobsson and Mr Dibrani, for your contributions. They illustrate the interpersonal and how we need to think about these processes – and how important they are. We can see that if there were to be a vacuum, if the EU's interest in managing the EU's approach to these countries were to decrease, there would be some others who would be happy to come into the EU's place. Of course, Sweden will continue to support Kosovo's EU approach and reforms, including through bilateral reform cooperation. We need to strengthen economic development and do more for democracy and the protection of human rights. We will be driving a clear EU perspective for the Western Balkans, including Kosovo. It is a cornerstone of our policy in the region. With regard to granting visa-free status to Kosovo, the Government Office, as you have understood from my message, will continue the risk analysis. We shall be able to take a position on the European Commission's recommendation. I hope that we will continue to engage in the way that has emerged from this debate.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-188	Madam President, I would like Then I would like to thank the Government for a good debate and wish that this would be done as quickly as possible.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-189	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark has asked me why the Prime Minister went back to the wording and Sweden should not seek membership of NATO in this year's government declaration. In his interpellation Hans Wallmark also writes that he experiences a lack of clarity regarding Sweden's defence and security policy line and our relationship with NATO. In this House, the government has repeatedly in government and foreign declarations as well as in question time and interpellation debates – the latter not infrequently, on Hans Wallmark's initiative – consistently presented our policy. Our security policy line is solid. Military alliance freedom serves us well and contributes to stability in the immediate region. Sweden's foreign and security policy is based on cohesion in the EU and increased cooperation on a broad front – in the Nordic and Baltic regions, within the UN and the OSSE, in the framework of our partnership with NATO and through a strong transatlantic link. The combination of military alliance freedom, strengthened national defence capabilities and enhanced cooperation with others enhances our ability to promote predictability and stability in Europe and in our neighbourhood. Our security policy has a breadth that includes both defence and foreign policy, diplomacy as the main line of defence, dialogue and the pursuit of international agreements, respect for international law and law, each nation's right to sovereignty and Sweden's role as an international bridge builder. Strong bi- and multilateral cooperation, relief efforts and security building together with other nations and organisations are also part of our agenda. In relation to NATO, Sweden, like Finland, has chosen a line of cooperation and not a line of membership. The government acts in accordance with the defence policy proposal agreed by a large majority. Our cooperation with NATO continues to deepen in line with this approach. It is a collaboration that gives us opportunities for political dialogue and for developing the Swedish Armed Forces, both for the national defence and for the ability to participate in international crisis management operations. One example of our collaboration with NATO is the Swedish participation in the Trident Juncture 2018 exercise last autumn. Our participation in the exercise contributed to the development of our national defence capabilities and our ability to interact with international partners. Another example of our cooperation with NATO is the close dialogue that we, together with Finland, are conducting with NATO on the security situation in the Baltic Sea region. It is a dialogue that has intensified in the light of the deteriorating security situation in our neighbourhood. It is a valuable dialogue for us, Finland and NATO. It contributes to an improved common picture of the situation and to a better understanding of our respective analyses of the situation. Madam President, I would like Security policy must be managed responsibly, in the long term and with broad parliamentary support. This is particularly important as the security situation in Europe and our neighbourhood has deteriorated over time as a consequence of Russian action in recent years. In an uncertain environment, it is important that the Swedish security policy line – on the basis of military alliance freedom – continues to remain firm. Sweden's military capabilities are gradually strengthened, and cooperation with other countries and organisations is deepened. Sweden has enhanced cooperation with NATO. The partnership with NATO and other organisations and countries is a central part of Swedish security policy.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-199	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the kindness of noting that I have raised a number of interpellations about Swedish security policy! One promise, Madam President, is that there will be more of those in the future. I noted that the Minister for Foreign Affairs stated in his reply that we need to strengthen national defence capabilities. I fully share that vision. I am therefore delighted to note that the current government, in its 73-point programme, is joining the economic stairway offered by the Moderates and Christian Democrats in its budget, which has been adopted by this House, that is to say, an increase of 18 billion over the coming years. We have also said that our objective is to achieve 2% of GDP in defence expenditure. Madam President, I would like As far as NATO is concerned, the basic attitude on the part of the Moderates and myself is that we have a great intimacy. This is also evident from the foreign minister's reply. We want to be a close partner country. We want to be a partner country. Much of our strategy is based on, in the meantime, on the assumption that someone may be able to help us. The problem for those who are outside membership is that they can never know. They may want, they may wish, they can pray and they can appeal, but it is only as a member you can know. That is the central difference between us arguing for membership and those on the other side who are trying to have other combinations. Madam President, I would like That is not quite true, what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says – that Finland and Sweden have chosen similar lines. There is a significant difference between the Republic of Finland and Sweden, and that is that Finland across party and block borders emphasizes that one always has one's own choices. You have what you usually call an option, i.e. your own choice. Then there is today a fairly compact majority in the Finnish Parliament, consisting of a number of parties with really only the Coalition Party and the Swedish People's Party as an exception, which is against a Finnish NATO membership. But you haven't given up the opportunity. If one day it was found necessary, one could apply for membership. There is a significant difference between the Finnish Government and the Swedish Government, which in this very categorical way rejects any thought. It is not true, then, that the same line has been chosen, but there are substantial differences. We have also discussed the various investigations that have been carried out in the first hour of the day. One of the security policy studies, which was the result of the first defense arrangement that the Moderates entered into with the government, was conducted by Krister Bringéus. He notes in his investigation: 中 The most tangible military effect of NATO membership would appear to be that the uncertainty that exists today as to how a common approach to the Baltic Sea crisis would appear, be eliminated and that the overall conflict-responsive capacity of the West would thus be likely to increase. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like This is what it is all about: how do we contribute to greater security in our neighbourhood? It is no big secret to this House that there is a gap between the Foreign Minister on the one hand and people like me on the other. I am absolutely convinced that a Swedish NATO membership would help to increase security in our neighbourhood, as has been pointed out by others, Krister Bringéus. I would also like to emphasise that there is a significant difference between the Swedish and Finnish lines.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-210	Madam President, I would like As I said, this is not the first time we have discussed this issue. I was perhaps a little surprised that Mr Wallmark was talking about a lack of clarity. We have said exactly the same thing for four years and in all debates. There is probably no one in Sweden who has understood anything other than that the message has been very clear about our view of NATO membership. After all, it is you in the opposition and what was the Alliance – which I now do not really know what it is – who have changed their mind, such as the Center Party. Now everyone is in favour of NATO membership. Does Hans Wallmark really mean that it would help to increase our security if we now change our security policy doctrine? Our security policy approach contains all three elements: maintaining our military alliance freedom, building on and developing our cooperation and increasing our own defence capabilities. How could a change in this make Sweden and the Swedes feel safer? It should be exactly the opposite. It is true that Finland has always had that option, perhaps because you have – what is it? - 800 kilometres of border with Russia. We have also lived with this for a long time and have fully accepted it, but we have the same basic position. We are seeking cooperation but not membership of NATO. Not to mention all other issues relating to the role of NATO and also how we view security. Security is now so much more, and if you choose the forms of cooperation you have more opportunity to be flexible and choose what suits our situation the best. This applies, for example, to our cooperation in the field of cyber and hybrid warfare. Today it is not certain that the threat is only military, but the threats may look different. I saw in the newspaper this morning reports that a majority of countries today actually believe that the climate threat will also be the biggest security policy challenge. We also noticed this during our time in the Security Council. NATO is not really the answer to all these questions, but we need to find flexible cooperation. It can be trusted that our security policy and our security policy doctrine are solid. We believe this gives the greatest security for Sweden and the people of Sweden.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-215	Madam President, I would like I myself am talking about 1 246 kilometres of land between the Republic of Finland and the Russian Federation. I haven't counted the meter when, but it's a pretty significant stretch. I also think it is essential to see the difference in strategy between Finland and Sweden, and there are certainly a variety of explanations for it. Nevertheless, I note that in Finnish politics, across party and block borders, it is extremely keen to say, on the one hand, that NATO membership is not at present, but, on the other hand, that it reserves the right as a country to make its own decision. I think it's pretty wise. I shall not speak on behalf of other parties, but, Madam President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke about the fact that there has been a movement in Swedish politics in recent years. It is absolutely right that, alongside the Liberals and the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party have now also spoken out in favour of a Swedish NATO membership. I think this is quite interesting and should lead to some kind of self-reflection by the Social Democrats. For decades, the Swedish line of alliancelessness has been defended by the Center Party and the Social Democrats, side by side. This, I believe, has given some legitimacy to this policy. What the Center has shown in recent years is that it is possible to be influenced by external circumstances – what the world looks like. This leads to a number of operational conclusions. I think, Madam President, that the Social Democrats and the Minister for Foreign Affairs should be a little concerned about losing that support and actually thinking about how it is that such a stable partner, who has been in the same line year after year, is no longer. I believe that this should be answered by the question put by the Minister for Foreign Affairs: how will NATO membership lead to greater security? Well, Madam President, I think it is because you know. This is the big difference between those who are in favour of and against membership. Those who are against hope for help. Should something serious happen, they will want help; they will plead and pray. But it is only as a member that we know that aid and support are coming, and that is the dramatic difference. Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister also referred to the joint exercise carried out in Norway a few months ago, Trident Juncture. It was one of the greatest exercises in modern times, with 40,000 soldiers from some thirty countries. What was practiced was an attack on Norway, where other countries joined up to protect, help and support. It's basically a very good exercise. What I wish is that we would know that similar exercises could be carried out in Sweden, simulating that Sweden is attacked and that other countries come to our support and help. The difference, Madam President, between the Foreign Minister and the Social Democrats, on the one hand, and me and the Moderates, on the other, is that a policy without membership is based on faith and hope. A policy in my line is based on knowing. It increases our security.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-223	Madam President, I would like There are probably those who would say that NATO has not recently been such a stable partner at all times and that we cannot know for sure. The messages have sometimes been a little mixed. NATO is not the answer to all our security challenges, far from it. I think the best thing we can do is to ensure that we are flexible in our cooperation, based on our situation and needs, and that cooperation rests on the three elements, because 200 years of alliance freedom is not to be despised. I believe that in a situation such as what we have now, we are not changing our security policy doctrine. One should be able to rely on our judgment. Each country must decide independently on its security policy; there should never be any doubt about that. Each government is responsible for security and should make the right decisions. However, it is important to signal clearly how we view security policy, and today it is much wider. When it comes to what you're building on, there's an old-fashioned vision. We have many more security policy threats, and we need to adapt to that. This also needs to be taken into account by the Defense Committee. I believe that these are collaborations that will be advocated in the Defence Committee, as well as the need for a national defence capability. We mean to do all three things. NATO is not the answer to all the questions. I've said it before: if you only have one tool and it's a hammer, all the problems start to look like nails. If NATO is the answer to all the questions, I wonder what kind of development we are looking at in terms of security policy. I think that the deteriorating security situation we have seen in our neighbourhood means that we need to use the whole range of foreign and security policy, ranging from dialogue and diplomacy, confidence building and prevention, to deepening security and defence cooperation and credible national defence capabilities. We need to use the entire width. It is not to be despised that we also have cooperation in Europe, which I assume will mean that we also have friends who come to our aid. Our cooperation is also very much about this.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-229	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of State uses the metaphor of the nail and hammer repeatedly. The only thing we can encourage the Foreign Minister to do is to be careful that she does not hit her thumb with the hammer. It is absolutely right that there is a complex security challenge and a complex security picture. But that does not mean thinking away from the kind of organised cooperation that NATO membership would entail. Madam President, let me point out the kind of centre of excellence that NATO has now built up in our neighbourhood: in Tallinn on cybersecurity issues, in Riga on strategic communication, that is, the fight against misinformation and lies, and in Vilnius on energy and energy security. I think these are pretty smart questions. I think these are good areas that have been identified, which are really part of the security policy environment. I cannot in any way see why it would be wrong for Sweden to be involved in this. In fact, we are involved. After all, we are seconding to several of these centres, at least in Riga and, I believe, also in Tallinn. Perhaps we are now also considering Vilnius. What is the difference – and we will get back to this – is how you view Swedish security policy. Should it ultimately rest on a foundation of hope, desire, and appeal — to ask for help if it is really needed — or should it rest on the foundation to know? This is the big difference. I therefore regret that this government is taking over one of the most important tools for securing Swedish security.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-234	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Wallmark, for a good debate! These are important issues, and they deserve a thorough and factual discussion. I have tried to clarify three basic messages. The first is that this government does not make a sharp move on foreign, defence or security policy. The seriousness of the challenges we see around us now requires predictability and clarity. It requires broad cooperation and dialogue, and it requires stability and credibility in everything we do. It's not just praying. Our collaborations are not about praying, but actually about planning together. To say otherwise is not quite honest. Cooperation on a broad front is crucial to meeting the challenges we face. That is why we have deepened our bilateral cooperation with a number of countries, especially Finland, but also our Nordic and Baltic neighbours, the United States, Poland, Germany and the United Kingdom. In addition, we have our work in multilateral organisations such as the OSSE. It is also absolutely crucial that we now participate fully in the European Union in order to strengthen the common defence and security policy. We are deepening our cooperation with NATO, but we are not under the nuclear umbrella, and we retain our flexibility and our ability to decide what is best for us. We are also chairman of Nordefco this year, as Hans Wallmark well knows. Finally, we are acting in the area of security and defence policy with the support of a broad majority supporting the defence policy proposal. Both the Minister for Defence and I tend to point out that we have a decision on this. We have a parliamentary foundation, and we shall live up to it.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-238	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me when I and the government intend to enable farm sales in Sweden, why, despite announcements from the Riksdag and two previous investigations, I once again choose to investigate the issue and what further questions I hope to have answered through another investigation. Swedish alcohol policy has been based on a solid foundation for a long time. This means that restrictions on accessibility to alcohol through, for example, age limits, limited opening hours, responsible serving at restaurants and the Swedish retail monopoly can be accepted because they protect both individuals and society at large from the harm caused by alcohol. The study that was last commissioned to analyse the conditions for farm sales in Sweden concluded that a legitimate EU regulation of such sales requires that foreign manufacturers also have access to the Swedish market as well as that sales can not only be allowed in rural areas. In other words, the issue of farm sales is not only limited sales of alcoholic beverages produced on Swedish farms, but also an activity that can cover both rural and urban areas and both Swedish and foreign operators. The investigation was added to the file by government decision in December 2014. This means that the investigation cannot form the basis for a future proposal. A fundamental principle of alcohol policy is that there should be no economic interests at retail level that can contribute to increased sales and thus increased alcohol consumption. This is the principle on which the Swedish retail monopoly rests. The European Court of Justice has also recognised this principle, the so-called disinteresting principle, and its importance in safeguarding the public health interests underlying the retail monopoly. The government pursues an active economic policy and has also established a rural policy and is actively working to improve for rural businesses. The Government is also actively working to implement the food strategy's goal of promoting and increasing Swedish food production, including the production of beverages. I am convinced that the positive development of rural areas and entrepreneurship can go hand in hand with a public health alcohol policy. Since the basic EU law conditions for farm sales have not changed, it is extremely important to ensure, as far as possible, that a new investigation specifies, among other things, what is meant by farm sales and provides increased knowledge of the EU legal conditions and of the national alcohol policy implications as well as the economic impact of the introduction of farm sales of alcohol. The scope of the new investigation should therefore be broader than that of the investigation into certain alcohol issues. The Government intends to set up an investigation in 2020.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-244	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This question has been investigated twice. It is investigated and ready, and it has also been clearly shown that it is possible to introduce farm sales in Sweden in combination with maintaining Systembolaget. In addition, Finland has during this time, while we in Sweden have been investigating this, introduced farm sales and thus gone a step further, although they can keep their system company Alko. Of course, what can be done in Finland would also have been possible to implement in Sweden. The issue has been investigated, and there is a large majority in the Swedish parliament to introduce farm sales and thereby be able to create new jobs in the countryside, create more jobs in the tourism industry and seize the opportunities of the whole country. So what is needed is not a new investigation. Decisions are needed, and a workshop is needed to get started. But what does the weak left-wing government do? It is announced that it will investigate this and set up an investigation in 2020! Madam President, I would like Why wait on this? What is the reason why the government is waiting for its investigation? We have examined this twice and have been able to see that it is possible. Nevertheless, we are waiting to carry out the additional investigation that the government deems necessary in order to be able to move forward. You wait another year. It feels like this is a way from the government and its support parties to just delay the issue and not tackle the real problems and really solve them. It is clear in both the answer and the government's action that it is not intended to introduce farm sales in Sweden. Instead, it has decided to try to stall and delay the issue so that nothing happens under that government either. What is the will and ambition of the government on this issue? Madam President, I would like If we want farm sales in Sweden, we do not solve new investigations but just a new government that actually wants farm sales. Instead, the Minister deals with a number of other investments in rural areas. Let me list a few initiatives that the rural community has absolutely not ordered. In addition to the fact that farmers have not received their EU money on time, we have new petrol and diesel taxes, new planned truck taxes, new air taxes, stalled farm sales, more reserves, impaired ownership rights and more wolves. In addition, high-speed trains will be built between the large cities in Sweden, which reduces the possibility for smaller towns to have their railways and roads expanded. These are not investments in rural areas; they are investments in big cities. Madam President, I would like The government has no intention of solving the problems in rural areas. You see the countryside as a place where people can go and rest, as the Prime Minister has said at his press conferences. My questions to the Minister are: When will the investigation be launched in 2020? How long does the minister estimate that the investigation will take, and when do we have a bill in Parliament to introduce farm sales?
i-4e9532553fd45b64-253	Madam President, I would like One of the points of the January Agreement is to investigate this issue. But it is also clear that we want to keep Systembolaget. Since the two previous investigations have shown that it may be difficult to keep Systembolaget if farm sales are introduced, it is important that a possible introduction is investigated again. It may seem to be a small question of whether small farmers should sell alcohol, and one might think that it is good for tourism and so on. The problem, however, is that special treatment by Swedish manufacturers risks leading to the need to open up the market for the whole of Europe, and then there may be venture capital companies. It is also doubtful whether this can be introduced only in rural areas, because it is also a difference of treatment. Then venture capitalists can also establish themselves in the big cities. We'll see what the investigation finds out, but these are issues that are well worth highlighting. As far as the comparison with Norway is concerned, Norway is not part of the EU. They are part of the EEA Agreement, which covers a minor part of the EU acquis. It does not include fruit and berry drinks, i.e. mainly wine and cider. As a result, they have been able to sell fruit and soft drinks. It is therefore a different situation than in Sweden because we are fully in the European Union. As far as Finland is concerned, they, like us in the EU, are fully involved. Here too, the restriction applies to fruit and berry wines and certain types of cider. When Finland wanted to move on with fruit liqueurs, it stopped. The EU considered that this would distort competition, as other producers of fruit liqueurs in the EU could be discriminated against. There has also been a change in Finland's policy. Although they still have their system company, Alko, they now allow the sale of beer with an alcohol content of up to 5.5 percent in supermarkets, and Alko holds wine auctions. You can also buy 5, 5% drinks from restaurants. Since Finland's alcohol monopoly has partly been eroded, Finland and Sweden cannot be directly compared. I do not think we want the model where supermarkets and restaurants sell strong beer in this way. In Finland, it is also about fruit and berry wines that are made north of the 60th parallel, and a larger part of Finland than of Sweden lies north of it. In Sweden, the border would go approximately at Gävle, so this would be applied in Sweden would far from the whole of Sweden be covered. I also do not think that it is mainly fruit and berries wines that the farm vendors in Sweden are interested in selling without beer and wine of the traditional type. These complications mean that the issue needs to be investigated. We cannot introduce this directly if we want to keep Systembolaget.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-262	Madam President, I would like I thought my answers to the questions asked by Sten Bergheden were quite clear. Firstly, since the investigation was added to the file by a government decision in December 2014, the investigation cannot provide a basis for a future proposal. That's why we need a new investigation. Secondly, a new study will also specify what is meant by farm sales and provide increased knowledge of the EU legal framework, the national alcohol policy implications and the economic impact of the introduction of farm sales of alcohol. Therefore, the new investigation will have a broader framework than that given to the previous investigation. That was two of the answers to the interpellier's three questions. I am surprised by Sten Bergheden's claim that the previous investigations have indicated that it is possible to introduce farm sales and maintain Systembolaget's retail monopoly. I haven't read the previous investigations. Therefore, there is a need for a new investigation that has a broader allocation. I assume that Sten Bergheden and the Moderates are also interested in maintaining Systembolaget's retail monopoly. But if you think that question is relatively uninteresting and does not value Systembolaget's retail monopoly particularly high, you can risk it, in principle without caring about the consequences of EU law to introduce farm sales. If farm sales are allowed as a retail channel for alcoholic beverages alongside the Swedish alcohol monopoly, this means that the systematics contained in alcohol regulation and what is the basis and legitimacy of the Swedish retail monopoly are reduced. This was one of Sweden's most important exceptions when we became members of the European Union. This question was not waved away by any party; on the contrary, we negotiated it to ensure that it also became a policy for the future. With regard to the order in which various investigations are to be carried out, I am thinking that the interpeller is well aware of how this is done, especially when four parties have negotiated and are unusually clear about when an investigation is to be set up. By 2020, the study will be set up, and we will come back with details of when it will be submitted and when a proposal can be expected. I am happy to have a discussion about Finland's situation, but as Hillevi Larsson described, it may not be the situation we wish for. Let me also inform you, if it is not fully known, that the Commission has looked at Finland's new proposal for the Alcohol Act. The Commission concludes its opinion with the possibility of opening an infringement case on the grounds that it is no longer considered systematic and coherent when Finland opens another retail channel. I am happy to take this discussion both now and later. This presupposes, however, that we basically believe that Systembolaget's retail monopoly should remain and that we see the same contradiction. It would be interesting to hear Sten Bergheden devote the next post to reflecting a little on Systembolaget's retail monopoly and its importance for public health.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-274	Madam President, I would like I'll start by quoting the investigation that existed. In fact, I assumed that both the Minister and Hillevi had read it, but it is clear that this may not be the case. The study considers that the proposed model for farm sales is compatible with Swedish alcohol policy and that it will not lead to any negative consequences for public health. The introduction of the farm sales model of the investigation does not lead to the abolition of the retail monopoly. This is clear on page 13 of the summary and could perhaps have taken the debate a little further forward in the first situation. I still have no answers to the specific questions I asked, Madam President. Yes, I heard that the investigation is due to take place in 2020, but I have not received an answer as to why they are waiting until 2020. We have the whole of 2019 to set up the investigation and could do so tomorrow morning if the government had the will. My question is: when will it be added by 2020? Is it due to be set up in December 2020, and then examined for a year and a half, after which it is noted that there is no time to implement anything during this term of office? This is precisely what I think can be the Government's ambition: to delay and delay the issue so that there will be no farm sale in Sweden. Madam President, I would like I hear the spirit of the Minister's answer, that there is a problem with everything. Finland has gone one step further than we have done today. They could end up in a situation where there could be an investigation. They're selling today. We do not sell in Sweden. We're sitting here thinking about investigating. They sell and discuss whether to make adjustments gradually. They have made volume restrictions and time limits for their sales in order to keep their system company Alko in Finland. This is, of course, quite possible in Sweden too. We are in exactly the same Europe as they are. We live under exactly the same rules and laws as the rest of the EU. They have exceptions for fruit and berry wine from before – I am fully aware of that – but it is possible for Sweden to open up because we also want this. You cannot sit 20 years after EU entry and say that everything that was said 20 years ago is solid. The government has no ambition. It has no desire to introduce farm sales. That is the problem. The previous government did, and a majority in this House has actually ordered us to introduce farm sales and manage Systembolaget at the same time. Madam President, I would like I have to repeat my questions. When is the investigation due in 2020? Surely some planning must also be carried by this government in the department? How long do you expect it to take to complete? It has been investigated in two stages before, and we have the Finnish model to look at. Such an investigation could be carried out by anyone in perhaps three or four months to find a solution. We will see how long the government has been planning to take to resolve this issue. I have a supplementary question on this, Madam President: when will we get a bill in Parliament that will introduce farm sales? Can the Minister promise that we will have a bill on the table in Parliament before the end of this term of office? The answer must be simple, if there is ambition. Is there an ambition so that we can get a bill on Parliament's table and an implementation of farm sales before the end of the term of office? That's my question.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-281	Madam President, I would like One of the investigations clearly states that if we had farm sales in Sweden, we could not limit it to farms in rural areas, as this would be a competitive disadvantage for other producers across the EU. It is also clear that not only self-produced products could be sold but also similar products produced in other countries. Then we are on a completely different model from the one proposed with self-produced products on farms in Sweden's countryside. In addition, it is not we in Sweden who decide ultimately, but the European Union does. We can see clearly how this has been interpreted in the Norwegian and Finnish examples, where only a limited amount of wine has been allowed from fruit and berries. It is not these notes that I have heard in the debate, but it is traditional wine and beer, not only fruit and berries. I therefore consider it doubtful that there is any automatic in that Sweden could go further than what has been done in Finland. As I mentioned, the Norwegian example is different, because they are not mediated in the EU. Finland has also loosened its monopoly. With regard to the example of fruit liqueurs, which they wanted to sell in Finland, the EU said stop. This shows that it is not we who decide how to interpret the European rules, but the European Union does. The investigation to be set up in Sweden will be helpful in interpreting EU rules, for that is what we need to start from. The risk if we come up with an ill-considered proposal is that our system company will be threatened. It can be very difficult to back up the band in that situation, so we have to think too carefully.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-284	Madam President, I would like The reason why Sten Bergheden did not get answers directly was that he had three new questions in addition to those he asked in his interpellation. The first question was why this is not one of the very first investigations set up by the government. This is simply due to the fact that there will be many investigations and that there are many that we think are more keen to set up in 2019. By 2020, the investigation will be launched next year. Of course, we do not set up an investigation with the ambition to allow farm sales combined with Systembolaget's retail monopoly unless the ambition is to also present a bill to the Riksdag. When exactly 2020, Sten Bergheden will have to wait to know until we have decided when it will be added. It sounds like it's as simple as that on Sten Bergheden. The study on certain alcohol issues submitted its report in December 2010. Then a bourgeois government, which Sten Bergheden had entrances for, had four years to present that extremely simple bill that only fixes for farm sales. What was the reason you didn't? Well, there was a lot of referral criticism. It did not come from actors who believe that it affects public health or anything else when someone is allowed to buy a bottle of wine on a farm somewhere in Sweden, but it came because there is an extremely strong commitment around the Swedish retail monopoly, which is exercised by Systembolaget, with everything it means of age limits and what leads to lower alcohol consumption. The investigation concluded that a legitimate EU model for farm sales cannot be limited to alcoholic beverages produced on its own farm in Sweden without allowing all manufacturers of alcoholic beverages, both in Sweden and within the EU, to sell their own beverages in Sweden under the same conditions. They also concluded that sales cannot be limited geographically and did not specify the restriction that could be imposed on the size of the products or the type of alcoholic beverages produced. It is too easy, Sten Bergheden, to just look at Finland. I do not need to repeat what Hillevi Larsson said, but it is about the fact that the monopoly on alcoholic beverages of up to 5.5% has already been released today. It is also about the latitude that it had in the past and which has now been removed and which means that the Commission will probably start an infringement case. It's also about fruit and berries, and that's not what I'm thinking about, nor, I think, Sten Bergheden when he talks about us having farm sales. I think we should stop talking about each other so much. There is no ambition not to allow farm sales for the few operators who would like not only to produce wine or beer on a farm somewhere in Sweden and perhaps make a living on it but also to let someone buy a bottle after a visit. But there is genuine concern that we are endangering the Swedish retail monopoly and that we are establishing a parallel distribution channel. I wonder again: Can Sten Bergheden not see this? Does it not bother Sten Bergheden to talk so lightly about some farm sales on some farms in sparsely populated areas and then see what happens to the Swedish retail monopoly? I think it is easy to see it this way. Me and the government are serious when we say we're going to set up an investigation. We hope, of course, that we will have a better basis. We're going to set up a broader investigation. And above all, we will try to look even more closely at what farm sales are and how to narrow it down in a clearer way.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-293	Madam President, I would like Sweden's countryside must have more legs to stand on. Sweden's countryside cannot live on wolves and forest reserves, but the countryside needs more bones and more industries. Farm sales should be able to create more jobs and growth throughout the countryside. That's the basic condition. It does not help with more reserves and more wolves to create growth. I have reviewed the statements by both the Minister and Hillevi Larsson. All of this is known matter. We know about this. Finland currently has sales. But we're so afraid we won't even dare. Hillevi Larsson said that we cannot go further than Finland. But let us, Madam President, at least go where Finland is today and start there. But you don't even dare, Lena Hallengren. You don't even dare set up an investigation. You're even moving it forward in time. We should be able to agree today, Madam President, that this investigation should be brought forward if you necessarily have to have it in three four months in order to be able to make a decision. In fact, there is a majority here in Parliament that wants to introduce farm sales. There is pressure here in Parliament, and there is a people's will to actually bring this about. This will of the people is slowed down by the current government. Let us agree on one thing, the Minister, and that is that we are trying to bring the investigation forward and shorten the time for it, so that we really get a proposal for an investigation, that everything is clear within a year and a half and that a farm sale that can be evaluated within this term of office is under way. It is quite reasonable that you have a slightly higher level of ambition than that you might just look at an investigation that you do not know anything about? Basically, one is in some way opposed to this being introduced, because there are so many problems. Today Systembolaget brings spirits and wine to your door. But it is hopeless for people in Sweden to go out to a farm sale and buy a bottle of wine. That's not reasonable in 2019.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-297	Madam President, I would like I tried to open up a certain dialogue. I was curious to hear Sten Bergheden's view of Systembolaget's retail monopoly. However, in his three comments I certainly did not hear any argument. I realize that it is not so high in the course of Sten Bergheden and perhaps not of the Moderates; what do I know? I note that farm sales are something that many would find interesting and could be an addition to the activities carried out in rural areas. But it is hardly that which makes rural areas live up or increase their livelihoods dramatically. Of course, it is important for those who have such an activity. But there is also a great deal of support – a vast majority of both the Swedish people and the Parliament Chamber – for Systembolaget's retail monopoly. In any case, there has also been broad support in Parliament's Chamber, and I sincerely hope that it remains. Then I cannot help pointing out again that the previous investigation came in December 2010, which Sten Bergheden claimed was so crystal clear that it was easy to introduce farm sales and that it did not threaten Systembolaget's retail monopoly at all. Why the then bourgeois government did not introduce farm sales for four years I do not know. Maybe Sten Bergheden has an answer for that. But he didn't say anything about it in his contributions, so maybe he doesn't. I note that we shall do our utmost to ensure that an investigation is set up with a broader mandate to combine farm sales with Systembolaget's retail monopoly. There are many pressing issues that relate to everything from skills provision in healthcare to how older people should have a place to live that goes before the investigation on farm sales. The investigation is therefore only due in 2020.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-302	Madam President, I would like Acko Ankarberg Johansson has asked me how I and the government work with the Riksdag's decision to pursue the work on the cancer strategy, RCC and child cancer care. The government has a great commitment to strengthening cancer care in Sweden. Both the January Agreement and the 2019 Government Declaration show that cancer care will be strengthened. The 2019 budget allocates SEK 500 million per year to cancer care for 2019 and beyond. In addition, the county councils will receive additional funding in the coming years for investments in health care. The details of how the government returns to. The regional cancer centres, RCC, carry out important work to strengthen cancer care in Sweden. The previous government has repeatedly stressed that regional cancer centres will continue to be important in the future. In the agreement Shorter waiting times in cancer care 2018 between the Government and the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, it emerges that the Government believes there is a need to continue working with national and regional collaboration through the regional cancer centres. In the long-term focus of national work on cancer care, the Government believes that regional cancer centres will also play a key role in future cancer care. The government's positive view of the regional cancer centres is also shown by the government's recent decision to commission the National Board of Health and Welfare to allocate SEK 48 million in state grants for 2019 to the regional cancer centres. It is the same amount that has been set aside for this state contribution in recent years. The Government has also decided this year on a regulation on state grants for activities in regional cancer centres. The regulation creates stable conditions for the state contribution to regional cancer centres, so that they can conduct and develop their activities in the long term. A national cancer strategy for the future (SOU 2009:11) has been the basis for the development of cancer care in Sweden since 2009. The previous government stated that the orientation of this strategy should also guide further work. The strategy needed to be further developed and adapted to meet the challenges facing Swedish cancer care today and in the future. Therefore, during the spring and summer of 2017, the previous government conducted a council on the future of cancer care to discuss how society can best prepare for a future with more and more people falling ill in, and living with, cancer. The council involved patient organisations, healthcare professionals, researchers, authorities, healthcare companies, county council representatives and others. Based on the national cancer strategy and the comments made during the consultation on future cancer care, the previous government presented in May 2018 a long-term focus for the national work on cancer care. The long-term focus aims to create clarity about how the government wants the national work on cancer care to develop now and in the future. The focus will also serve as a basis for continued efforts to equip cancer care for the challenges of the future. The Riksdag was also informed about this in the budget proposal for 2019. The long-term focus of the national work on cancer care reveals that the Government believes that child cancer care needs to be strengthened, so that children and parents experience security in cancer care. Skills and resources are needed to meet the specific needs of children and young people in cancer care. Another part that is clearly highlighted in the long-term direction is rehabilitation. This is a priority area for people to return to normal life after cancer treatment. During 2018, the previous government has taken several measures to strengthen rehabilitation in the area of cancer.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-311	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Social Affairs for his answer. I would also like to thank you for the broad consensus that exists on the national strategy for cancer care. I think it is part of the success that there is broad political support for, and hence pressure, that we want to change something here for the better. It has been a long time since the report arrived. It contained principles and proposals for a national cancer strategy. It then resulted in draft budgets adopted by this House and in an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council on how to work. It has been successful, and the work continued to be carried out by the former S-MP government. The strategy may be good. But the problem is that the queues have skyrocketed in recent years. So we really need to think about how to revise what is not working well enough and how to reinforce what is working well. That is the background to the proposals that the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, made in this House and on which the Riksdag decided shortly before Christmas. Let me start, however, with what the investigator Kerstin Wigzell wrote. She was the State's investigator and presented the report, listing the following starting points for a strategy: A long-term strategy is necessary to cope with a future increase in the prevalence of cancer. Thus, the prevalence of cancer is the same as that of cancer. 中 Society needs to increase its investment in prevention; the most important to reduce morbidity and death in cancer. 中 Knowledge formation and dissemination in cancer care and prevention need to be improved. The organisation of cancer care needs to be developed. National cooperation is becoming increasingly necessary and needs to be given firmer forms. 中 Cancer care must meet future patients' demands for information and quality in care. Special efforts need to be made to reduce disparities between population groups. Developments will also place great demands on priorities and positions on financing arrangements. ..................................................... She called her report a national cancer strategy for the future. The report stresses that it is important that it is a national strategy, that it is a strategy for the future and that it is a strategy for cancer. This may sound like a speech exercise à la Jan Björklund, but without a national and forward-looking strategy – and without a strategy specifically on cancer – it will not be successful. It is essential that these three elements are included. This means that what the report described in 2009 still applies today. Madam President, I would like The Minister for Social Affairs highlights the efforts made during the last parliamentary term and what has happened in the near future. The regulation that came in January on state aid for regional cancer centres is a good one; it means that we have a more stable order for how money is distributed, and you can also have views on how it is done when you know that it is a regulation that governs it. However, this was made possible by the budget reservation presented by M and KD, which means that there is money for this. As far as the national approach, decided by the government last May, is concerned, it is to some extent less stringent. The headlines are good, but the content is in some parts quite general. Let me say a few words about what is good: the prevention work is working well. Health-promoting work is highlighted, and the overall approach and the link with policy areas is good – although perhaps there is still a little more to explain about how this is done. However, when we come to waiting times and lead times, it is mainly a matter of defending what the government did during the last parliamentary term. My question, Madam President, is whether the Minister for Social Affairs is really satisfied with the long queues we have. Time runs affect the development of cancer diseases, which means that this is an extremely important issue for those who have the disease.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-327	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Mr Ankarberg Johansson for an important and relevant interpellation. The issue is not only topical, but something we will have to return to on many occasions both in the speaker's chair and in practical work. Many people are concerned and many are involved in the matter, both professionally and personally. A very short answer: Of course, no one wants people to wait for any care, and definitely not for cancer care. We know that early detection is one of the most important ways to overcome the disease in order to treat, and at best cure, cancer. Standardized health care processes, which have been extended to cover more than 20 different cancers, say something about us really heading in the right direction. When it is possible to meet the standard course of care, it includes both the time spent on care and the right measures at the right time. I think it is an exemplary way of working, and I think myself – after a relatively short time as the responsible minister for health care, I can surely say – that this is something to look at: how can other parts of health care learn from the way of working with cancer strategies and regional cancer centres, and how can we as decision-makers look at it? I really think it is a good thing that we have this consensus on such important issues. They're very long-term. Speaking of people's sense of security, it is also security to know that there is a consensus because political governance also varies, not only nationally but also around the country in our various county councils and regions. However, I would like to take this opportunity to emphasise that there was nothing in the M-KD budget that made this possible more than what was in the transitional government's budget made it possible. On the other hand, there is the possibility of filling future budgets with greater content in this area and going into more detail than a transitional government was able to do, as Mr Ankarberg well knows. It is true that it has been ten years since the first national cancer strategy was adopted. It was done in 2009. However, I would also like to say that the work done at the end of the last parliamentary term in terms of long-term orientation, with advice and many stakeholders – in terms of professions, user organisations and health professionals as well as researchers, authorities and others – was an important basis for how we should continue to work. There is a value in feeling that it is actually a long-term and strategic work. It's amazing that we can stand behind something that's ten years old but constantly update it. Acko Ankarberg Johansson also believes that the goals are good in the long-term direction but that it needs to be filled with more content. After all, the state grant regulation states that the RCC's grant applications must illustrate and underpin how the objectives are to be achieved. That is the guiding principle. That work will therefore continue. In essence, however, I think it wise that we have a long-term strategy up to 2025 and that we are clear, because there is a regulation, that it is long-term support. It is not temporary funds, but it underlines that this is something we will be doing for a long time to come.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-334	Madam President, I would like The regulation is welcome and there is now stability, because last year there was a concern about what is happening. The previous government did not give any information about it, and money was not included in the way you can expect if you want to have a long-term position. But I am glad that we have corrected this and that it is good now. The queues, however, are the great minus of the cancer strategy. We have done so much else that is good – we have developed knowledge management and improved many parts – but the queues are there as the big problem. As the Minister for Social Affairs says, Madam President, time is very important for those affected by cancer. When I read in the national direction that the government has adopted and that the new government wants to make its own and work after, I lack concreteness: how to shorten the queues, which is so essential? The budget adopted by this Parliament says that a new, revised and strengthened cancer strategy should be worked out, but I take it that the Minister for Social Affairs does not consider it necessary. Instead, we can maintain the general direction we have and hope that it will go well. I also believe that it is important for the Riksdag to know how the Government handles the Riksdag's decisions. What is missing here is also important – that we can implement that decision by the House and that it can have an effect. Nevertheless, let me highlight both rehabilitation and childhood cancer care. These areas are mentioned in the direction adopted by the government, and there are good words there that county councils – now regions – have an obligation to provide rehabilitation. Today, however, it is certainly spot - on that people get rehabilitation. So the question is how to ensure that this is done. What heavier tools are used to actually make rehabilitation available to everyone? When it comes to childhood cancer care, special funds are indicated in the budget available to the government. That's 60 million dollars just for the childhood cancer clinic. How does the government intend to use them? It is an area where we have a lot to do; 300 children per year suffer from cancer. These children and their parents begin a change in life that often becomes lifelong. Not only the health care itself during the emergency period is important, but also the rehabilitation you get – sometimes life-consuming. So it would be interesting to hear how the Minister for Social Affairs thinks about the parts that are to come. However, I return to the basic question: how do we shorten the queues and ensure that we can actually live up to all the standardised health care processes? They are somehow the key to our continuing success in cancer care.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-340	Madam President, I would like I don't really know why Acko Ankarberg Johansson makes it sound like this is some general orientation. She talks about hope and what the government really wants, as if there were any doubt whatsoever that the national cancer strategy is solid. It is clear that it will develop, but when we discuss a new national strategy, I do not think that Acko Ankarberg Johansson either means that we should get rid of the old one and do something completely new. Instead, I assume that we are starting from the one that exists and the one that is good – but we are doing it better. It can well be discussed when we have come so far that we meet the requirements for a new cancer strategy when it comes to a long-term focus. I want to give you what I have got after I took over the question, namely that there were very few people in the Council who said that a new cancer strategy was needed. It is more likely that the intention was to have a long-term perspective. You wanted to feel that you get to implement this and that you simply work with endurance. We know what it can be like in politics and for those who work in the businesses: It is a little too easy for us to work short-term and project-oriented. Now we have work that is done long-term and sustainable, and I think we should take care of it. This does not in any way mean that we should not develop the strategy, and of course we should take care of all the parliamentary decisions that come to the government. On the other hand, we will have to come back in the WEEK and the WÄB when it comes to the precise distribution of funds. Although I cannot say anything exactly, I would like to emphasise the following: if EUR 500 million is available, we can discuss whether EUR 60 million is very or very little. It may be that it is about a much larger amount when the Regional Cancer Centre thinks about it. But, of course, it is important – as the government has also emphasised – that we look specifically at what has to do with childhood cancer: the situation of children, the situation of the family, and the importance and urgency of prompt and good treatment and the recognition of the life-changing nature of this. I am pleased that Acko Ankarberg Johansson specifically addresses the issue of rehabilitation. I think this is one of the areas where we have the most to do. The cancer strategy is ten years old, and at this time a great deal has happened precisely in the field of rehabilitation. Many more people today live with chronic cancer in a way that is perhaps not really anticipated or thought about at the time. Rehabilitation is an area – to point out one – where I think we need to devote a great deal of time and where it may seem that we are going to make an effort. But again: I have not received any signals, and I believe – the hand of the heart, Acko Ankarberg Johansson – that there was no one who believed that resources for the national cancer strategy and the Regional Cancer Centre were in danger. It is rather the case that one is budgeting during one term of office, and after one election one comes with new years. Even during the election campaign, the Social Democrats, for which I can speak, spoke about how important it was to make continued investments in cancer care. I do not think anyone has in any way wondered whether there will be a continuation. However, it feels good both with a regulation that clarifies how it should be done and that there is now a government in place that can start working concretely on what is actually expected and how future agreements will be designed.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-348	Madam President, I would like When the Minister of Social Affairs says that it was not meant to end the support to the RCC, it is well and good. But in all other areas of the budget there is funding for the years after; it is not only stopping the end of the term of office. It was so clear that there was uncertainty: should the RCC be allowed to continue with state aid or not? It is therefore a good thing that we have now clarified it, that it is stable and that there is a regulation governing it. To come back to the national cancer strategy, the foundations of the report are solid. That is why I deliberately read parts of what I think is very urgent. This is a national cancer strategy which is forward-looking and which is precisely about cancer, because there needs to be a specific strategy for this. It's stuck. But the council was held in 2017, which means that a lot has happened since then. What we need to do is keep looking at what is not working in the strategy we have chosen. What do we need to change? What do we need to work on to keep what is good? This will not work if we just say that we have already done everything we can and that everything is already fine. One of the keys to the strategy is that we have always dared to look at how we do this and how we should do to achieve the goal. It is about being able to have a good life even if you have suffered from a cancer. It is also a question of reducing the effects of treatments that sometimes lead to serious damage afterwards and, above all, of increasing survival. We have succeeded quite well in Sweden, but we do not succeed if we are generally satisfied and think that we can only continue. I hear a small opening from the Minister that we are going to review what we need to revise in the cancer strategy, and I will come back so that we know before this House how the government is pursuing Parliament's decisions. Warm thanks for the exchange! I will certainly come back on this issue, and I look forward to the government also doing so.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-354	Madam President, I would like Thanks again, Acko Ankarberg Johansson, for this interpellation and for – I think – a pretty good discussion also for those who listen. This is the case when we stand in this Chamber: few people sit here and listen, but many people follow what we say with interest. I think there has been a great deal of evidence. Above all, I hope that it is very clear that there is a long-term ambition to work with RCC and that it is also about providing long-term sustainable support for the operations. We cannot afford to work project-oriented, and the issue is too important for that. I would also like to say that I think that you should always look at the successes you have achieved in order to feel that it is possible and to feel to some extent satisfied but that you should constantly look forward. I am thinking above all of increased survival when it comes to rehabilitation and achieving even more standardised health care processes. There's still a lot to do. However, I may think that when you work with welfare issues – not least with health care, where you constantly face new challenges – it is good to sometimes also think about what works. This applies not least to issues such as patient contracts, care plans and contact nurse. It is simply a matter of feeling safe in a situation where life and everyday life are absolutely not simple, but vice versa. I look forward to further debates and talks and continued dialogue and cooperation on this issue.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-359	Madam President, I would like Katarina Brännström has asked me what I intend to do to make the concept of a reasonable level of living more clear, so that this is not exploited in a way that was not intended. The intervention is based on a judgment of the administrative court giving a 20-year-old man the right to financial assistance at rental costs as an resident of a friend rather than living in the parental home, with the motive to ensure a decent level of living for the young. Assistance under the Social Services Act is the ultimate safety net in the welfare system. The aim of all aid, both financial and other forms of assistance, is to ensure a decent level of living for the individual. The concept has existed in the Social Services Act since it was introduced in the early 1980s and according to pre-work should not be specified in detail but must be assessed on the basis of the time and conditions under which the person in need of assistance lives. I think it is a reasonable order for municipalities and judicial authorities to decide which level of living should be considered reasonable.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-362	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Government for its answer, but it is not without my wondering whether the Minister has really understood the meaning of my question. Financial aid, which is, of course, part of our transfer systems, has increased rapidly in size in recent years, and many municipalities today find it difficult to meet their responsibilities. Especially after the end of the State's responsibility for newcomers after two years, major problems have arisen. One of these major problems is the lack of housing. Just as the Minister said in his reply to me, the concept of a reasonable level of living in the Social Services Act is something that was written into the early 80s, that is, almost 40 years ago. A lot has happened since then. I believe that the law should be reviewed and better adapted to the reality of Sweden today. I wrote the interpellation in order for the Minister to reflect on these consequences. We are talking about many new – and usually large – families. Above all, we are talking about a large shortage of housing in almost every municipality. There are also increased demands on individuals who make it very difficult to cope with the housing issue in particular. It will be even more difficult to match what the Administrative Court thinks would be a reasonable level of living if overcrowding for young people during upper secondary school studies should mean the right to own apartment with the rent paid through financial assistance. In the individual case, there may always be good reasons, but the relevant thing for us here is what the law can mean in general. Unfortunately, I feel that the Minister of Social Affairs is giving up a little bit on the application of the law. I wonder if Lena Hallengren really understands what the consequences may be in many of our municipalities that have received many new arrivals and who already today have major problems in meeting the need for housing in the right way. And above all, if overcrowding means that young people who do not have their own income should be considered entitled to an apartment with the rent paid? It is already the case that many children and young people are forced to share a room, and it is doubtful whether this is considered a reasonable level of living. All of this would require huge large apartments and, above all, many more apartments. These don't exist. Nor can we see that there are so many new apartments that would be needed. I think the Minister should be a little concerned about this verdict. Now I know that Växjö Municipality has appealed the decision, so we will see where it ends up. But if this were to become the new standard and a new practice in the courts, I cannot see how the government would ensure that one can meet the court's demands at a reasonable level of living.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-371	Madam President, I would like It became somewhat clearer why the question was asked in Katarina Brännström's first post. Even if we are not going to talk about an individual case, that is still the basis of the question itself. I would like to emphasise that I cannot comment on an individual case. The judgment has not gained legal force, and I know that Växjö Municipality has appealed against the Administrative Court's decision. Having said that, I hear that there is some kind of question between the lines from Katarina Brännström which is about young people really should only be able to leave home and get assistance from social services. I don't read in any case that you can just leave home and go to social services and get the accommodation paid. An adult child has no obvious right to assistance to leave home. According to current case law, young people who want to leave home are only entitled to housing aid in exceptional cases – I read this to say right – and that is whether there are strong social reasons for moving away, which could be difficult personal conflicts that have arisen in the family. I think we can think of a situation here. We often discuss honour-related violence in this House. It is an example of a group for which we definitely do not want to narrow the possibility of moving from a family, even if it offers shelter over the head. It's about being over 20 years old and creating your own life. Of course, social services have demands on those who receive financial assistance to be at the disposal of the labour market and so on. The purpose of the assistance is to ensure an adequate level of living for the individual, but also to help strengthen the individual's ability to live an independent life. An individual needs assessment is then carried out on a case-by-case basis. Overcrowding, which could be another aspect, is something that the National Board of Health and Welfare and Boverket develop standards for. Right now, the norm is that partners and two children can share bedrooms. As children grow older, the need for their own room should be taken into account. And there's supposed to be a kitchen and a living room. I would be interested to hear Katarina Brännström develop something that is the moderate view of how to change the standard of reasonable living standards. After all, there is a well - thought - out point to the fact that it varies over time. It is difficult to define exactly what it means as it quickly becomes out-of-date. We have been able to follow this in other contexts. Of course, issues such as the Internet and the possibility of connection in 1980 were not mentioned. But I guess we agree that if you do not have that opportunity, you will be very side-stepped, not just socially but at all, in your dialogues with authorities and others. I would like to see Katarina Brännström develop her question somewhat, given that we cannot discuss individual cases and given that young people over 20 can not just leave home and get aid, but that it is demands that are made.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-379	Madam President, I would like I have also studied the standards that apply today. It says that the need for one's own room should be taken into account when one is in adolescence. If more and more people were to appeal against decisions, we would have a huge problem in both municipalities and here in our House too, because there is no way of meeting the demand for that standard. The right to own room and the latest standards were not decided when we were faced with a housing crisis and with so many people who have come to Sweden, especially with larger families than we normally might regard as a family in Sweden. That is the basis of the question. It is not that you can only leave home, but the judgment in the aforementioned case stated just overcrowding. Both Lena Hallengren and I know that many families live crowded. If this were to be put into effect, if this question were to be pursued, it is clear that there would be a new practice. I think it is important for the Minister of Social Affairs to review what one has the right to demand from society, what is reasonable and what is not reasonable. Of course this changes over time. But even today, many municipalities have difficulty meeting their commitments. If we introduce a new practice then it will be even more difficult and the costs will increase even more. Then, of course, one might ask: Is the government prepared to compensate the municipalities? And how should housing be built so that we can meet the needs that will then arise? Of course, everything that begins at one end has consequences at another end. The Minister says that it is a reasonable order for municipalities and judicial authorities to decide what is a reasonable level of living, but it will not be if standards change over time. You're always raising the bar, aren't you? But we have not increased the number of homes at the same rate. Nor have we been able to get people to work at the same pace. It doesn't make sense in the end. I felt that the answer, that maybe we should look at this, was just a resignation. What will happen to the municipalities? Should it be possible for all teenagers to have their own room? Is it reasonable to ask when you have large families to deal with? In some cases, families may have to split up. It would be interesting to hear the Minister of Social Affairs' view on the consequences of the extension of a reasonable standard of living and that we raise the bar over time.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-387	Madam President, I would like I feel that the question is a bit of a commute, and the whole thing is a little unclear to me. Individual cases are not to be discussed. Then I think we should refrain from doing so. When it comes to their own teenage room, parents are dependent on their children until they are 20 years old. Katarina Brännström may have a different view of the group over 20. I do not think that this is so obvious. After all, parents do not have a livelihood for someone who is an adult. Then you will find yourself in a situation where you have to decide what requirements are to be made for someone to receive financial assistance, for example. Enlargement and height bar? I don't know who's determined that's the way it is. What I noted was that a reasonable standard of living varies over time. It is also a question of looking at the situation and living conditions of the individual. I would be happy to return to the group that actually needs to be able to leave home. It can be because of social problems, that you are the victim of violence and so on. It is not possible to describe exactly what it means when it comes to age, own living and so on, but the specific cases. There is no point in reviewing the whole issue of fair living standards. Katarina Brännström is happy to tell you if she is possibly looking at this in a different way. But I would like to say once again that an adult child has no obvious right to receive assistance to leave home, but what it is about is social reasons or if the family is very crowded. I think a rather large part of Katarina Brännström's reasoning was that everyone should have the right to their own room in their teens. But that is not the basis for subsistence support, but the parents have subsistence support for their children, point one.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-393	Madam President, I would like Of course there is much to be discussed on this issue. We can also discuss the limits of parental responsibility. Today we say that parents have responsibilities until secondary school studies are completed. We know that there are also many who cannot make it. Perhaps we have an approach that is a bit old-fashioned when it comes to the Social Services Act. I may think that one way is to look at this from a reasonable level of life. What else is: How can we make sure that the family and parents take greater responsibility? When you're 20 years old, you're of age. You don't have to go to school or do anything else, but you can leave home and actually get financial assistance. We can see at worst that this is becoming a major problem for many municipalities that have received people. That is a little bit where I think the Minister slips the answer and does not see the risks in this. I think that the municipalities are left in the lurch unless the government is prepared to do something about what is now happening. We know how the social welfare boards' budgets are hitting the ceiling. We know that the housing shortage is enormous in many places. Then I think that perhaps you should take a little more grip when you think about this than just saying: Yes, but the application of law is completely okay. I will thank you for this debate, but I think I will return. We need to discuss the issue of designing a social services law that is better adapted to the reality that Sweden has today. In fact, I do not think it is properly adapted to that reality.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-398	Madam President, I would like I welcome Katarina Brännström in forthcoming debates and hope that it will then become even clearer what is actually meant and what changes would be relevant. Today, the Social Services Act and financial assistance are simply to ensure that there is an ultimate safety net. Then the question is, How do you regulate it? And who should be able to use it? When you are over 20 years old, parents no longer have responsibilities. That doesn't mean you can leave home anyway. Katarina Brännström herself has stressed how difficult it is to leave home. You're supposed to have something to move to. We have a reception in all the municipalities of the country. The fact that all municipalities take responsibility for building rental apartments, for example, and not just thinking about how to build in order to maintain the population that they already have, is a matter of real urgency. How can you help and support municipalities? These include resources for municipalities. As far as this issue is concerned, it is actually very useful for the municipalities to receive an additional billions. Up to 20 billion we have said that the welfare sector will be strengthened by – it concerns municipalities, county councils and regions – during this term of office. We will see what else will be done, but it is clear that these are resources that play a major role. A forthcoming system of equalisation will also play a role for municipalities that have had a large reception or that simply have a lower tax burden than other parts of the country. But I look forward to future discussions. For me, as Minister of Social Affairs, it is very important to discuss the ultimate safety net of welfare. What is it? And how do we avoid pulling the carpet for this in our eagerness to ensure that the municipalities manage their budgets? There is supposed to be a safety net that makes people feel that there is something when everything else breaks down.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-404	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me why no work has been started to sort out the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness under the Ministry of Defence. The work to rebuild the total defense is a joint work for the entire government, and the work is a priority. As Minister of Defence, I am responsible for coordinating military and civil defence within the framework of total defence. In turn, the Minister for the Interior is responsible for coordinating society's emergency preparedness, including civil defence, in so far as such matters do not concern the military capabilities of the defence. The Ministry to which the Authority for Civil Protection and Preparedness is subject is not crucial to the government's work on total defence.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-407	Madam President, I would like The background to my interpellation is the work that the Defence Committee has done. I have had the privilege of being in two defence preparations, and in the interim report Resistance, which was completed in December 2017, the preparation made about fifty concrete proposals on how to strengthen total defence and civil defence. It is no secret for the House and the Swedish people that we have a lot to do. Civil defence has been under the ice and needs to be restored in area after area. The defence committee thus had a number of concrete proposals, and one of the most important ones was that a coherent management and management of the total defence (military and civil defence) should be facilitated by the overall responsibility of a department for coordinating the total defence, both in peace and in the event of increased preparedness. So, on page 91 of the report, we are talking about the fact that the work on total defence is divided. The Ministry of Defence is responsible for its part, and so it is the Ministry of Justice that is in charge of society's emergency preparedness, including civil defence. That was not the case before, Madam President. At all times this function has been under the Ministry of Defence, but for some reason – and perhaps the Government can take the opportunity to tell us about the background – the government that took office after the last election did so. So there was no preparation work on that change. In the report, the Swedish Defence Committee argues for this to come back and believes that this division gives rise to border issues and uncertainty about liability, which makes work difficult and delaying. This is anything but what we need when we are going to rebuild the total defence, and the civilian part is, of course, a very important side of the coin. That's why it's so important that this doesn't get lost. In the next speech, I intend to come back to a number of other proposals that have not been implemented. The Government is happy to list what it has become. There's what I know about four investigations. Are they all added? When will they deliver their results? We thought that the report on Resistance would lead to something that we could vote on in Parliament, that it would be a report. It also bears on the report that we are due to finish in May. How does the Government view the work of the Swedish Defence Committee? Is it not this agreement between eight parties that should also apply?
i-4e9532553fd45b64-413	Madam President, I would like On May 14, 2019, the Swedish Defence Committee will submit its final report to the Government. The Government then develops a new defence policy direction that will be taken up in the form of a bill in the Riksdag. This applies from 2021 to 2025. That's the usual order. Last time, when I was a member of the Defence Committee myself, there was also a final negotiation in the context where guidelines were agreed but the economy was not agreed. This has nevertheless formed the basis for the orientation proposal that the Riksdag later decided on in May 2015. It is probably that it is only when the last stone is laid for this construction that one should take a position on the whole and on the basis of a specialization proposal. I therefore believe that we have time, and an orientation proposal that Parliament will adopt will apply from 1 January 2021. Since then, the Government has given the Swedish Armed Forces and MSB a joint mission to develop coherent planning for total defence in the 2016–2020 period. The security authorities have been given special responsibility and increased preparedness. The progress of the planning work shall be reported annually. MSB and the Swedish Armed Forces must give priority to providing support for the military placement of personnel, support for the Swedish Armed Forces, safe and robust collaboration and alternative and/ or sheltered command post. We will conduct a national total defence exercise in 2020. There, military and civil will interact, and public and private will interact and be tested centrally, regionally and locally. This will be a very important exercise in terms of protecting socially important functions, protecting the civilian population and defending the country against armed attacks. This exercise will provide a basis for further development of total defence capabilities. In the 2017 spring amending budget, we have allocated half a billion SEK to the total defense. For the years 2018 – 2020 there is an additional 1.3 billion, which is the largest investment since the 1990s. We also have a pilot project to develop the total defence that is on Gotland. There is therefore a great deal of work going on to get to grips with this. We have an investigation that looks at the role of industry in total defence, and it will be reported on 1 December 2019. The Department of Defense is responsible for this. We have an inquiry into responsibilities, management and coordination which deals with the geographical division of civil management and coordination at regional level. The Justice Department has that responsibility. We have an investigation into an authority for psychological defense. It is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. We also have a report on health care preparedness, healthcare organisation and access to medicines, and it will be presented on 31 December 2020. The Ministry of Social Affairs is responsible for this. It is therefore a great deal of work that has started on the issues of total defence and civil defence versus military. It is not crucial for this work which department it is under. Total defence is a concept that is much wider than that and covers both private and public activities, several different authorities and several departments' areas of activity. There is therefore every reason to deal with coordination issues.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-425	Madam President, I would like What I read just now was that the current system, that it is divided, is causing problems of borderlineness and lack of clarity about liability, which makes it difficult and slow to work. If it complicates and delays the work in peacetime, what if the worst happens and we go to war? I imagine that this work is an agreement between eight parties. If you are not in agreement, you write a different opinion, and the Government knows that. He's been on the job himself. Otherwise, it is an agreement, and I think it is strange if it takes time. An investigation would be completed by 31 December 2020, three years after we finished the report. The Government also listed all the different who should have different responsibilities. It is part of the problem that it is so divided. I will tell you a secret in this House: we went about it thoroughly. We have good employees, and the Government knows that. We have the best people in the country connected to the Defense Committee, and we took a very thorough approach. We looked at what it was like in the '80s and '90s. How was it organized? What was important to make the total defense work? There was no dissenting view – not from the Left Party, not from the Green Party and certainly not from the Social Democrats. Björn von Sydow led the work with a firm hand. Now the question is: What is the status of the Defense Committee? It must not be that we, so to speak, are wasting our youth for a lot of hours and then it becomes nothing. The Government refers to what became of the former Defence Committee. Now we are looking at the economy, and the idea – at least I see before me – is that this should be an agreement that should be able to become a bill that will then be able to be voted through in the Riksdag. It is true, and it may be good to remind you here in Sweden's Parliament, that a majority is required. Otherwise, if this is not realised, the Government will not succeed in getting through the bill. Madam President, I would like Now I'm coming back to this again. Like a rubber ball, I come back to you, I almost say. This was an important part. It was not that we had other views. It was important that it should be under the Ministry of Defence and that MSB should be tasked with coordinating everything. Now I do not have time to read out the list of the 50 proposals. But almost everyone, each of these 50 proposals, boils down to the need for management. Someone needs to take the command, and we've proposed it should be MSB. The key question in this is: What is the government's view of MSB's location? All we have said and written is nothing – although we understood it as an agreement between eight parties?
i-4e9532553fd45b64-433	Madam President, I would like It pains me to have to make it clear to Oscarsson that the work of the Defense Committee has not yet been completed. On 14 May, the final report will be presented to me on the basis of the directives I once gave to the Committee on Defence. In connection with it or thereafter, there will be a negotiation, and it will in turn form the basis for what will be the orientation bill. Partially in the course of the work, start pulling out individual parts when the comprehensive agreement has not yet been made – yes, you can think about how wise it is. The defence committee is appointed, but what has the real and final significance is the parliamentary decision based on the bill that is presented and decided in the Riksdag. It is what determines what the work will look like between 2021 and 2025. Then total defence is not a matter for any individual department or organization, at least not in my world. It is a broad work that includes everything from business to different parts of the local and regional public sector, central public sector, the exercise of authority and large and small businesses. It includes the military part and the civilian part. That includes emergency preparedness. All of this belongs to various organisations, and the most important thing is to try to find effective and effective coordination. These are complicated questions. Total defence was dismantled very far in connection with the end of the Cold War, and I, for my part, can think that we have a long journey to make before we have reached a level of total defence that is acceptable. But at least we've started and started that journey. I have now listed a wide range of measures that the government has taken, the money supply that has taken place and the exercises that will take place. However, I would also like to inform you that a lot of practice is already taking place. At Oscarsson it sounds like nothing has been done, but so a lot is done – and it has been done many times more than it was during eight years of alliance rule. So I do not think that the construction work on total defence should be linked solely to the structure of the departmental and departmental divisions or to the management of government, for all this must ultimately be coordinated. Civil defence has two dimensions. One is directed at civilian crisis management. The second is what is directed towards support for the military part in the event of a crisis. We have begun a work that is gradually producing results. When I visit various exercises around the country, I find it gratifying to see how police, rescue services, military organisation, county boards and others practice in the same place and coordinate their activities. So it is possible to do so, and it is happening today – regardless of how the departmental division looks in this context. The agreement that is made in the end, in connection with the completion of the work of the Defence Committee, will most likely form the basis of the proposal that we will eventually produce. I hope for broad political support for it in Parliament, but I would like to inform you that the defence committee in which Oscarsson himself participates has not yet finished its work.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-442	Madam President, I would like I understood that the Secretary of Defense gave us the task of submitting the interim report because it was so urgent to get started with civil defence. We worked intensively on these proposals, and it was a final act. It may change some comma, but it's at that level. As far as civil defence is concerned, these are our proposals. The Government knows, I think, that management and structure are important. If there is to be something, it must be clear who is in charge and who is in charge. That is why we wrote that the Swedish Defence Committee believes that this division gives rise to border problems and uncertainty about responsibilities, which makes work difficult and delayed. There is much else written about why it is important to have a clear headship, why MSB should be under the Ministry of Defence and why it is important to get this done. There are many proposals on security of supply that need to be made, the supply of electricity, a national system for prioritizing fuels, strengthening resources for the police and concrete contingency planning in the transport sector. We want a new independent authority that is tasked with reviewing, evaluating and monitoring the activities of the total defence as a whole, including both military and civil defence. It is important that we have transparency and clarity, so that we know where we are and put the money right. But the question finally becomes: What is really the work of the Defense Committee if we are so clear about one thing and it still becomes nothing?
i-4e9532553fd45b64-449	Madam President, I would like Regardless of how Oscarsson launches the debate, I would like to remind you that the defence decision next time concerns the years 2021 – 2025. We already have a defence decision in force until then, for which the enforcement phase is now underway. It is not that something has been removed or that the list does not apply. On the other hand, it is about which economy is ultimately agreed in order to carry out various things. I've listed a long list of missions the government has given. I've listed funds that are set aside. I have pointed out a number of investigations that are ongoing. It's not just snapping your fingers and thinking you can conjure this up with immediate effect. This is a step-by-step construction of a very large organization, where it is also about people working in different authorities, administrations and companies being aware of this type of issues and that their level of knowledge can be built up. Just because you sit at the central level and know exactly how to organize this there, you cannot believe that it is the same as that it is a clear effect in the country. I mean, we've started these processes. One important point to which I shall draw attention and repeat is the inquiry into responsibilities, management and coordination, which concerns the geographical division of civil management and coordination at regional level. I think it will be a very good platform for how to move forward and really get this to sit down. Perhaps it is a dimension that can complement much of what you have come up with in the interim report. But what this should ultimately look like in all its parts is the subject of a parliamentary decision that regulates the period 2021 – 2025. So we need to have those perspectives clear. In addition, the government has taken some short-term measures, and we will continue to do so.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-454	Madam President, I would like Alexandra Anstrell has asked me how I view the marines' need to decide on the next generation of surface combat vessels. In the defence policy orientation proposal Defence policy – Sweden's defence 2016 – 2020, which the Riksdag supported by a large majority in summer 2015, the Government notes that five corvettes of Visby class are maintained and that two corvettes of Gävle class are modified during the period. The defence committee, according to the instructions for their continued work that I decided on in January 2017, will, based on the development of security policy, highlight the war organisation in the Swedish Armed Forces and the relevance of military capabilities in terms of both the national defence perspective and the opportunity to contribute to international peace-promoting efforts. The marine dimensioning of the future period of defence orientation is thus part of the preparation work. The Defence Committee will present its final report with considerations regarding the Armed Forces' orientation and material needs for the period 2021 – 2025 on 14 May 2019. The government will then prepare the next defence policy proposal, where the question asked will be answered.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-457	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Hultqvist, for your answer! I have stated in my interpellation that today's military defence is too thin in relation to the threat that Sweden faces, in terms of both the outside world and our immediate neighbourhood. What puzzles me is that in both the army and the air force there are political decisions about increased ability. Personally, I am quite new to these issues, but I am good at economics and learn quickly. I understand that this is a long delivery time for both submarines and surface combat vessels. Madam President, I would like The question then becomes quite logical: why have important material decisions been delayed just as far as the marines are concerned? I hope that the Minister for Defence will be able to give us answers here today. The Swedish Navy needs political decisions in order for the ability to be maintained and improved in the long term. We can read this not least in the Swedish Armed Forces' perspective study. If the Swedish Armed Forces are to defend Sweden in 2035, both materials and personnel are required. It mentions sausages and submarines. I have also read what marine chief Jens Nykvist has said to DN: Several of our ships will go on overtime already in 2025. I could also see that the other week when I was on a field trip. There is not much wrong with a lot of what was built in the 80s, but the development in society has nevertheless progressed, probably even in the shipbuilding industry. Modern technology in all honour – the most important is the number of ships that can operate in 2035. In view of the marine director's statements about the fleet we have – that it may be in overtime already in 2025 – and that it may take ten years to get new equipment in place, Madam President, I am concerned. Shouldn't the Navy also have long-term political decisions regarding surface combat vessels and submarines? And is there no reason to review the possibility of joining the Finnish acquisition?
i-2ofyB6sJFPwBkHN3Sjgma9	Madam President, I would like What is under way and decided in relation to the marines, based on, among other things, the current orientation decision that the Riksdag adopted in May 2015, is the following: mid-term modification of two submarines of Gotland class, the ordering of two new A26 submarines, the mid-term modification of two sausages of Gävle class, a series of technical measures at Visby corvettes, the construction of new signal reconnaissance vessels, improved capability for submarine hunting through investments in sensors and anti-submarine grenade launchers, the ordering of new light torpedoes, new personnel frameworks for the navy to provide new crews and improved capability for marine target fighting. A coastal robot unit has been added to the third naval flotilla. Three buoys have been added to the third naval flotilla in 2017, and 76 battle boats of the type Battleboat 90 undergo life extension. I believe that in the current decision and in what we have ordered, there are a great many reinforcements and improvements on the marine side. We have been able to achieve this through broad majority voting in Parliament. I have not understood that there has been a moderate difference of opinion on these issues, at least not in the past. These are enormous financial commitments. As far as the future is concerned, I am well aware of the various requirements that exist. This must now be balanced in the Defence Committee for the next focus period 2021 – 2025. You also have to look at the time afterwards, because the decisions to be taken have bearings in the much longer term. It is also about the balance between different types of marine ship and weapon systems. I see that we have a wide range of long-term material needs that we must satisfy. But I can also see that a great deal is being done, and much of what is being done is subject to great financial commitments.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-466	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defense. Sweden's defence will secure our country, and we Moderates want to make the defence stronger. A step in the right direction was taken with the budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, but what will happen in the future? The defence agreements 2015 and 2017 have, if I have understood correctly, been an attempt to break the negative spiral of reduced ability that has characterized Sweden's defence over the past 20 years. Resources have been added, and the Swedish Armed Forces have been able to make a certain withdrawal. It is not really until now, with our budget, that there was a substantial reinforcement towards the target we have set for 2% of GDP. It was definitely a real boost if you think about the alternative. This reinforcement was important in order not to lose the ability either short- or long-term. Madam President, I would like This year, we need to be alert, not least in view of the report that the Defence Committee is to come up with, and make good planning for what is to come. If it takes so long to produce equipment, the forward planning must be good in both the order and the budget. How does all of this rhyme with the Marine Commissioner's statement that we have heard here during the winter? In my interpellation, I have asked how the Minister views the marine needs of decisions on the next generation of surface combat vessels. The Minister of Defence has only referred to the Defence Committee on the matter, but I wonder whether the Minister of Defence and the Government have formed their own opinion on the matter.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-471	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to reject this attempt at political propaganda on budgetary issues. The Moderates were themselves involved in discussing the conditions for setting up the transitional budget. At that time, there were a number of criteria on which we were agreed and which we followed. This meant that the activity that existed the year before would be largely prolonged. These were the preconditions for the transitional government. We have complied with that agreement. Then the Moderates and the KD put forward another budget to get some kind of political propaganda impact. Then you stand here and you talk about how good you are. I have always tried to say that we will provide additional resources, as we have done with the Centre Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. This has been my message in the process. Then, of course, I understand that this psychological warfare is something that must be used to make a political point, but I am pleased that today there is a broad majority in Parliament for the reinforcements we are making and that we have been able to reach this agreement. Then the interpellant asks me how what I say rhymes with what the Marine Commander says. I can only say that I do not believe that the marine director has any divergent views on all the major orders and commitments made by the state to strengthen the marine part. The stuff I've listed – for example, a new signal reconnaissance vessel and two new A26 subs – are huge orders. Mid-term modifications on submarines of the Gotland class are large orders. They are crucial to capacity. The life extension of the battle boats is absolutely necessary. These aren't little things. These are major commitments, but they are not the same as the fact that we do not have to do more in the future. My role and that of the government do not allow me to stand here and speculate personally and begin to think and think about what we should do when it comes to different parts of the Swedish Armed Forces. When I put those things on the table, it has to be worked out and done. The work of the defence committee has an important role to play there. It is an important platform for making these balances. Then, from the government side, we can look at how we move forward. After all, the aim of all this is to build a broad majority. We will, on the basis of the challenges we can see in the case of corvettes, underwater vessels and armaments systems, allow it in a process to ache a decision that I hope we will have broad support behind. Let me once again state, so that it is properly stated, that the Moderates have not had a divergent view of the priorities up to 2020. In fact, we have agreed on that. I think that's a strength and nothing that's a disadvantage. I am happy to commend everyone involved in those negotiations, as I have done in the past. We appointed the investigation into the Swedish Armed Forces' long-term material needs. It points to a number of areas where we have sales needs both before 2030 and after 2030. It's a good platform. We set up this investigation to bring as much of the truth to the surface as possible, which I thought was hidden for many years in the political life of Sweden.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-482	Madam President, I would like I did not intend to make any more contributions, but I still have to ask a question that I feel I did not get an answer to. Why has it taken so long to make more decisions? I can't answer whether you've been in agreement before or not – it's great when you agree – but how is it that there has been a difference when you have made long-term decisions about other parts of the Swedish Armed Forces? I wonder. As I see it, we Moderates do not put forward proposals that would be some form of political propaganda. We are putting forward the proposals that we believe are best for Sweden. I think I agree with the Secretary of Defense that there are no small things we are talking about. A submarine costs as much as a medium-sized municipality's annual budget. These are important things we are talking about.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-486	Madam President, I would like I cannot help noticing certain things. We and you agreed on the criteria for the transitional budget. We followed them. You took advantage of the situation by putting forward another budget and trying to score political points on it. However, we have the same level as you in the deal we have made with the Centre Party and the Liberals. These are all fundamental facts. Trying to describe it as if the Moderates have done more than anyone else here, I do not think that is true, especially given the track record they had for eight years in government. It was a tough time for the Swedish Armed Forces to say the least when it comes to both attitude and economy. What I have listed here are long-term, advanced, costly and well thought-out strategic decisions that are necessary for the marines and Swedish defence as a whole. The submarines, the corvettes, the signal reconnaissance vessel, the sensors, the torpedoes and the fighting boats are all basic necessities. To reduce it to something that would symbolize a somewhat negligent handling here is not fair. Then I am fully aware of the challenge of the future. Then I hope that, just as we agreed on the previous orientation decision, we will be able to agree on the next orientation decision. It is an advantage both for Sweden as a nation and for the Swedish people, and it also has a signal effect against other countries, if we have a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament for the decisions we take regarding defence and security policy. Thank you for the debate.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-490	Madam President, I would like Larry Söder has asked me what I am going to do to lower the thresholds into the housing market and when the enhanced amortisation requirement will be removed. The enhanced amortisation requirement aims to reduce the risks associated with high and rising household debt relative to income and thus strengthen household resilience to macroeconomic disturbances. This is important both for economic stability and for the functioning of the housing market. In a scenario of a sharp economic downturn and a fall in prices on the housing market, household resilience is an important part of both the economy as a whole and the housing market's capacity for recovery. It is important that macroprudential measures taken are evaluated. The Government has commissioned Finansinspektionen, which is responsible for macroprudential policy, to develop and report methods for evaluating macroprudential policy until 14 June 2019. As far as the enhanced amortisation requirement is concerned, it is still too early to draw far-reaching conclusions from the effects of the requirement. The Government has agreed with the Center Party and the Liberals on a comprehensive tax reform aimed, among other things, at improving the functioning of the housing market. In this context, it is natural to take into account the functioning of the credit market. What can be observed is that the prices of dwellings have fallen slightly in the past year after several years of steeply rising prices. This is positive for households entering the housing market because both the need for cash input and the current capital costs are lower. If you are new to the housing market, it is often appropriate to rent your dwelling. The investment aid for rental apartments introduced during the previous term of office and granted for more than 20 000 apartments with limited rents and reasonable requirements for tenants' ability to pay became increasingly attractive in the latter part of 2018. The January agreement will make it possible to continue to apply for investment aid.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-496	Madam President, I would like We know that the Prime Minister is running for office for his party, and I wish him every success in that. However, the Government's response to my interpellation gives the feeling that the Government is also running as a spokesperson for the Financial Supervisory Authority. It is clear that the Government only has financial stability in mind, rather than seeing the whole and the crisis in the housing market. The crisis I am talking about is that we are building too few homes. In principle, we build half as many homes as we should. This means that people stand without or find it difficult to get a place of residence, which I see as a major problem that requires the full attention of the government. I agree that we must have financial stability, but we politicians have a broader mandate than that. We need to look at the functioning of the market, how people can ask for a roof over their heads and how different groups are affected depending on which regulations are introduced. What I heard was no such reflection in the Government's response, which concerns me, and in the first interviews with the Government as the new Minister for Housing, it was repeated that financial stability is a priority. My questions will then be: Where will people live? Who will finance more housing if households are not allowed to borrow and the industry does not dare or can because of regulations that strangle demand? Note that I do not want to release the entire loan market. This is not about an incomprehensible understanding of the risk of high indebtedness. But loans are a fundamental part of housing market financing, and if they do not work, people will not be able to demand housing. It is then recognised that strengthening the amortisation requirement in combination with all other credit regulations for banks and households is not the right solution. Today, a household will be able to cope with the KALP calculations, which means an interest rate of 7 – 8 per cent. One must also be able to amortise between 1 and 3 per cent of the loan per year and also be able to deposit at least 15 per cent of the down payment. For a household in Stockholm that will buy an apartment for SEK 3 million, this means that the bank must test the household for a housing expenditure of SEK 18 500 per month while the actual housing expenditure can be SEK 8 400 or less. So there is a difference of 10 000 kroner a month, and that is something you have to do to borrow from an apartment. In addition, you must have almost half a million dollars in equity. The example shows how regulation on regulation has been imposed without taking account of the whole. Since we already had an amortisation requirement in essence, the question of why it should be strengthened would have been even more relevant. In practice, translating the amortisation requirement into an increase in interest rates means that the Government has raised the interest rate for new borrowers by up to 3.9 percentage points. It appears to be somewhat paradoxically given the discussion as the Government for financial stability that households will stop consuming or end up in a difficult economic position at the minimum rate rise. Instead, it has been done in advance – something that should reduce room for manoeuvre for households when the real interest rate actually rises. Amortization from debt growth is unreasonable. It is pure credit regulation that creates undesirable side effects. Does the Government not agree that the enhanced amortisation requirement was a false step that would have unreasonable effects on the individual?
i-4e9532553fd45b64-505	Madam President, I would like I welcome Per Bolund to the House to discuss housing policy. I am pleased that Larry Söder initiated this debate. Lowering the thresholds and focusing on owned housing is also a way to solve the lack of rental apartments. Mobility in the housing market is A and O. More attention should be paid to the ability and willingness of people to move from a tenancy to a property. Today, it is by far the biggest problem for many precisely the difficulty of borrowing money to buy the first home. The Landsförbundet recently produced a report that showed that even at an income of as high as 33 000 per month it is difficult to enter the market for owned dwellings, and Larry Söder presented the underlying figures. Young families with children and couples where both are established in the labour market and have good education thus find it difficult to obtain a owned dwelling. Many of LO's members cannot buy a home in a place where they have been offered work, and everyone knows that with poorly functioning relocation chains and high thresholds for housing ownership, companies risk losing the opportunity to recruit the right skills. People who want to change jobs stay in their development and risk not getting the career they want. Madam President, I would like The issue of amortisation requirements and mortgage rates is not part of the January agreement, and I therefore reserve the right to call on Per Bolund to contribute to the rapid review and reshaping of the measures so that the obvious obstacles that exist in many places, not only in the big cities, to enter the market for owned dwellings are removed. Madam President, I would like I often meet representatives of the woodhouse industry, and they have invested billions to increase the capacity to produce timber houses from Swedish forests in a climate-smart and cost-effective way. There is a great risk that the investments that have been made will fail when capacity cannot be fully exploited, and this in a situation where we have a major housing shortage and a great need for new apartments. We have recently heard that the commons in Stockholm want to offer their tenants the opportunity to buy their homes. Thus, housing segregation can be reduced and the residents offered an opportunity to save a dwelling. In addition, ownership reduces housing costs. But who can buy their lease if you don't get a loan and can't put the cash bet on the table? The Minister of Housing chooses to lift the necessary tax review that we have agreed to promote jobs, entrepreneurship and a more mobile housing market and to review the functioning of the credit market in this context. That is a good thing, but it does not fully answer Larry Söder's question about the problem of the amortisation requirement and what the Minister for Housing intends to do about it.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-513	Madam President, I would like I thank both speakers for raising this important issue. We're going to create a housing market where there's room for everyone. It should not just be for those who have the biggest wallets, as it has been in recent years. Then we can always discuss what was the background to it and why they built as they did. However, you should choose your words carefully. In a speech in the housing debate, talking about a crisis is perhaps not the best way to hold a discussion at a balanced level. To call it a crisis when more than 50 000 apartments are built, what was it during the eight years of the Alliance when an average of 28 000 apartments per year were built? Was it eight years of continuous housing crisis according to Larrys's Söder way of looking at the issue? It would be interesting to hear a reflection on that. We should be pleased that it is being built at a much higher level than during the eight years of the Alliance in power and that there will be greater opportunities for at least a better balance between demand and supply. The reason we have a major problem is that we have had underinvestments in the housing market for many years, even decades. This is not simply to be solved in a flash. A month or so as Minister of Housing may not be enough to pass the steak, but we may have to work a little more long-term than that. It is a bit of a pity to put financial stability against having a well-functioning housing market. If there is one thing we can see when we follow the development of housing over decades back in time, it is that when the financial market is in a state of crisis, housing construction dies completely. This happened in Sweden in the mid-1990s, when we had our own financial crisis. It was built extremely little. It also happened during the 2007-2008 financial crisis and subsequent years. In order for us to have stability in housing construction, we need to have order in the financial sector and in public finances. I am pleased that we have taken steps to ensure that we have surpluses in public finances – unlike the Alliance, which left behind a deficit of 60 billion in its last year in power. We have turned this into a surplus of 40 billion, and this means that there is credibility in the Swedish economy that is a good basis for a functioning housing market. It is also important that we have stability in households and that people are not at risk of being excluded from homes in the event of the slightest disturbance. This was, among other things, what happened in the 90s in Sweden. Many people were forced to sell their homes in panic in order to manage their finances and were sitting with the loans, but not with the dwelling. Still today in our society, we have people who remain with loans from the 1990s crisis that they have not been able to pay off. Let us ensure that this situation is not repeated. It does no good, especially if it is young people who get seated with that kind of economic situation. It destroys life rather than creates opportunities. Financial stability is therefore important. Trying to argue otherwise is a dangerous way to go. It is important to note that we need to work with many different measures. That is where the investment aid introduced by the government during the last term of office is important. This means that rental apartments with reasonably low rents are now being built, allowing people who do not have the largest wallets to enter the housing market. The Moderates and Christian Democrats chose, with the support of the Swedish Democrats, to remove investment support entirely from their budget. So they chose to turn this road into the housing market. This was an irresponsible decision that has led to great concern in Bostadsverige, where many construction companies now want to build that type of housing. They are largely using and seeking investment support, but with the budgets of the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Sweden Democrats, there is no longer any possibility of seeking and building. I think it was an irresponsible decision that does not benefit young people in the housing market.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-522	Madam President, I would like The Government says in its reply that we cannot draw any far-reaching conclusions from the amortisation requirement. That may indeed be true, but credit regulation is not necessarily rocket science. It raises the thresholds for groups with less equity. Among other young and newcomers, it is more difficult to get their own accommodation. It creates lock-in when the cost of changing loans increases. This reduces the turnover of housing. It creates side effects when households try to circumvent the regulations. The growth of consumption loans is increasing strongly, as shown by Finansinspektionen. All of this was part of the analysis of the consequences of economics professors, professionals and others. And now there are signs that this is happening. In addition to this, we have major matching problems in the labour market. Even where the functioning of the housing market spoils the conditions for many to move to the right place. Let us take another example, which gives a new perspective. Much of the growth in Sweden comes from the metropolitan regions. These are growing and creating growth, which increases the demand for labour from other parts of the country. If a young person is to be able to establish himself or herself in Stockholm and buy his or her home, it is today required SEK 38 000 per month in salary to get a loan for a one-bedroom apartment. Amortization will then be SEK 7 000 a month. Which young person is at the beginning of his or her career, who gets a job in a growth region and who is likely to see rapidly rising incomes in the future and thus reduced private economic risk can meet these demands and expenses? Where are they going to turn, says the Government? To the expensive second-hand market, the black market or the housing queue? We Christian Democrats were against the increased amortisation requirement. Instead, we want to see lower interest rebates and a study on an amortisation requirement on the banks' aggregated mortgage stock rather than on individual households, but we are also open to looking at which mix of credit regulations lowers the thresholds into the housing market while ensuring stability. Can the Government think of other solutions or to ease certain regulations in order to enable more capital shortages to buy their home? I did not get an answer to the removal of the enhanced amortisation requirement, nor how the government intends to lower the thresholds into the housing market. The government thought I used a very strong word: crisis. If you don't see the housing crisis, maybe you should work one more time. People do not have the opportunity to buy their home, and since they do not, companies cannot build the necessary housing. If the Government's proposal to resolve this crisis is an investment aid that goes directly into the pockets of real estate companies, I think we have a problem. I am prepared to sit down and discuss how we can resolve the crisis that I see. Although the Government does not see the crisis, it thinks it is a minor problem, but I think that people must be able to buy their homes. They must be able to have this security, even if they do not have huge wages. I believe that the Government and I are in fact in agreement on this, but it must be seen that the increased amortisation requirement creates problems that we must resolve jointly.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-530	Madam President, I would like We can devote another term of office to discussing when housing construction began to increase and when it began to decline. We can see that housing construction began to increase during the time of the alliance government and then began to decline over the last two years, during the previous government's time in power, when the construction goals set were not reached at any time. But we can call this story. It is not clear whether the investment aid, according to its design, has contributed to the creation of housing which had not been provided in any other way. As Per Bolund rightly pointed out, investment aid will now remain in place, partly as a result of the January agreement, and it will be concentrated and made more effective, targeted at the whole country and hopefully benefit the residential consumers and markets that need it most. The situation we have and have had is that people who really should have been able to afford to own their home are forced to compete with people who see no other option than to get a cheap older tenancy. As Per Bolund knows well, the queues are the cheap rental apartments that many need infinitely long in some places. Do you need more rentals? Yes, it does, Madam President. Free leasing in new production, which is part of what we are going to discuss further with the government, will create a more stable foundation in the rental market, regardless of the focus and size of the construction subsidies. But it does not take away the responsibility for what is happening today, as many with good income are forced to compete for the few rents that exist.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-535	Madam President, I would like If you're going to use Larry Söder's definition of crisis, we've been living in a crisis ever since the million-dollar program was built. Before that, we also had a crisis, and we will certainly have a crisis in the coming decades too. On average, 28 000 apartments were built in power during the eight years of the Alliance. If there is a crisis when you build more than 50 000, must 28 000 be regarded as a very serious crisis, perhaps twice as serious? Of course, I am concerned that we do not have a balance in the housing market. I would like to see that we had it, and we are trying to ensure that housing construction increases, even in segments where it was not built during the time of the Alliance in power, that is, for people who have reasonable incomes. It's not supposed to be premium housing that's being built. This does not make it easier for young people or those with lower incomes to enter the housing market. On the other hand, it is important to note that what really shuts out people with low incomes from the housing market is whether it is an ever-increasing price for housing, where house prices, for example, double over a ten-year period. It happened in the last ten years. I note that the measures taken by the previous bourgeois government did not facilitate. Rather, pricing was fueled by making major tax changes that reduced the willingness to move and made it cheaper to stay. In addition, tax changes gave people more income and were able to buy at even higher prices. That if something has shut out young people with low income from the housing market. I am pleased that we now have a different situation, in which we have stable developments in the housing market and where prices do not rise at the rather hysterical rate that occurred with the housing policy of the former bourgeois government. It is important to see the reality as it looks. The first amortisation requirement, which was also supported by the Christian Democrats, included 60% of the new mortgage holders and 60% of the market. The increased amortisation requirement affected 15 per cent of the new mortgage holders. It thus had significantly less impact on the housing market and the mortgage market. We will now have evaluations of how this has affected. What really affected – if you look at the measures taken for financial stability – was the mortgage ceiling introduced under the bourgeois government in 2010. When the mortgage ceiling was introduced, the share of new borrowers aged under 30 fell dramatically, from 13 per cent in 2009 to 5 per cent in 2011. Two thirds of young people disappeared. Since then, the share has increased. In 2017, the share was up to 17 per cent, i.e. even above the level we had in 2009. It can also be noted that the share of young people has doubled their loans since 2011. In fact, this is the biggest increase when compared to all groups of borrowers, if you look at age segments. I therefore think that Larry Söder's reasoning can be nuanced and discussed. Of course, I think that we need to make evaluations of the overall toolbox to deal with the risks of household indebtedness. As I said, the Financial Supervisory Authority will do so. We have commissioned them to return to the summer of 2019. An overall evaluation will then be carried out. We will also carry out a larger tax review. This will mean making changes in taxation that also affect the housing market. It's part of the deal. Then there may also be opportunities to review what tools we need. However, to say at present that v i should remove the amortisation requirement is not, I think, to take into account the worrying developments that actually took place before the amortisation requirement was introduced. Then Sweden stood out internationally by having mortgage-free loans at a level that you never really had in any other country. It was something that increased the risks to individual households and the economy.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-546	Madam President, I would like I would like to repeat the questions I asked about what the Government intends to do to lower the thresholds into the housing market and when to remove the enhanced amortisation requirement. I note that the Minister has not really answered any of these questions, but rather looks back at the year of the Alliance Government. I would say that we have a crisis where we are currently standing. The Government and the Riksdag have, of course, a shared responsibility to resolve the crisis that exists. It won't help if we stand and discuss what happened five, six or seven years ago. We have had a government that has been in charge for four years, and the same government has responsibility for four more years. This means that it is the Government that must show us how to resolve this crisis. As I said in my speech, we, like the Government, want financial stability. We have no problem with the fact that there is an amortisation requirement. What we have a problem with is that we see the effects of all the charges being imposed. I tried to explain with two descriptions what the reality is for people when trying to buy a home. I'm not prepared to pay that price. Is the Government prepared to pay that price, i.e. that people – young people and those who form families – are not in a position to buy a home at all because of the charges imposed to create financial stability? The Government is absolutely right that we have had an increase in pricing. It is good if prices are stabilised in one way or another for some time. But we can historically see that housing increases in value as it increases. Therefore, I do not think it is a problem if you do not amortise so much on your loan, because the value of your home will rise and the loan will then decrease in percentage. I will come back to the fact that I think it is a crisis that the Government is reducing, and I think that we should join forces to resolve it.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-550	Madam President, I would like I believe that the most important thing we can do is to ensure that there is a better balance in the housing market. There, the government has taken many measures. I mentioned investment support. It has been important to increase the construction of rental apartments with reasonable rents. We have already achieved 21 000 apartments there. The money hasn't just gone down in the property owners' pockets, as it sounded here. On the contrary, the money goes to apartments, and those who rent these apartments get lower rents. This is in demand and is very much needed in the housing market. In the past, we have also provided support for older people's homes, which allow the elderly living in too large a dwelling to move and provide room for people in need of larger housing. Akademiska Hus has adopted a goal to build 28 000 homes by 2026, of which 21 000 student housing that provides housing not least for young people. We have decided on infrastructure and are also part of our January agreement. When building infrastructure, it provides opportunities to build hundreds of thousands of homes in the future. We have also made sure that we are now investigating how government properties can be better used to build more housing. Now that we have a significant increase in the supply of new housing, it also affects the market. This has led, among other things, to us now seeing a more stable trend in prices. We would like to make more reforms to increase the opportunities not least for young people to enter the housing market. I think it should also guide our tax review on how we can use these tools. I get a little worried when Larry Söder keeps saying that amortization is not the way to cope with debt. I think that is a wrong approach, because I think that is what has led us to also have a development with mortgage-free loans that grew very quickly in Sweden and that increased the risks. This has been pointed out by the International Monetary Fund, the EU and many other assessors as a major risk in Sweden. I would like to say that it is only because we now have a healthy amortisation culture that we are actually able to manage the risks in the Swedish economy and thus also long-term housing construction in Sweden.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-554	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me what measures I intend to take in order for MSB to have access to its own helicopters, what measures I intend to take to enable civil protection to have access to private helicopters and whether I am willing to work to give the Armed Forces an additional mission to help when society's regular crisis response resources are insufficient. It is essential that civil protection actors in society have a good ability to carry out effective rescue operations when forest fires and other accidents occur. According to the Accident Protection Act, the municipality is responsible for civil protection within the municipality. The emergency services shall be planned and organised in such a way as to enable the rescue operations to commence within an acceptable timescale and to be carried out effectively. If a municipality's civil protection resources are insufficient in a comprehensive rescue operation, civil protection can request support from other municipalities and state authorities. Such a request may, for example, relate to the need for staff reinforcements or helicopter support to combat fire. State authorities and municipalities are obliged under the Accident Protection Act to provide assistance if they have appropriate resources and if participation does not seriously impede their normal activities. The Swedish Armed Forces, like other state authorities, are obliged to provide support of this kind. The Swedish Armed Forces can also provide support in accordance with the regulation on the Swedish Armed Forces' support for civil activities to state authorities, municipalities and county councils, for example in connection with the management of disturbances in important societal functions. Such support may also relate to helicopter resources. Support may be provided if the Swedish Armed Forces have resources suitable for the task and this does not seriously impede the Agency's regular operations or its participation in a rescue operation under the Accident Protection Act. Through private and government actors, Sweden has access to a certain amount of flying resources that can be used for firefighting. Local authorities' emergency services can enter into agreements with stakeholders to ensure the ability to fight fire from the air. Sweden can also, through established civil protection cooperation within the Nordic region, the Nordred agreement, and within the EU, the EU Civil Protection Mechanism, call off such resources in large-scale rescue operations. According to its instructions, the Civil Protection Authority is to support municipalities' civil protection services in various ways and can, for example, assist in communicating contacts with national and international actors who have access to helicopters and aircraft that can be used for firefighting. MSB shall also have the ability to assist with reinforcement resources, such as material to combat large-scale forest fires. In August 2018, the Government commissioned MSB to analyse, based on the experience gained from summer forest fires, the needs of an enhanced national capability for fire-fighting from the air in addition to that that can be met through the effective use of national and international resources with the support of established collaborations. The assignment will be presented in mid-February 2019. The government will closely monitor the development of society's overall civil protection capabilities and will make changes in this area if necessary. At the same time, it is of great importance that municipalities take the necessary measures to ensure effective civil protection throughout the country in accordance with the Accident Protection Act.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-561	Madam President, I would like My interpellation about Swedish fire preparedness is due to what happened this summer – the big fire that took place seven months ago. It's five months from now until it can be time again at worst. On 23 January, SVT's mission broadcast the forest fire review program, where it was revealed that SOS Alarm did not send any firemen to Enskogen and what was to become one of the biggest forest fires in the summer. A day before the firemen were deployed, the fire had been discovered by a helicopter out on another extinguishing mission. According to the pilot, there was a fire on an area of 10 to 15 metres in diameter. Had it been combated directly, it would probably have been extinguished directly, but even though there was knowledge of the fire, no firemen were sent out – and no helicopter either. Seven months have passed since this happened, and now we have a few months. However, we are still in a situation, Madam President, where MSB does not have its own helicopters. The Norwegian equivalent of MSB has access to 22 helicopters, either own or through agreements. The Swedish Armed Forces have not been given any task to help either. That was referred to in the answer to the law that exists, but it is true in the case of accidents and is about resources that are available. It's a whole different thing if you have a job. This summer it was found, among other things, that the Swedish Armed Forces had on average two or three helicopters up, but if they had received a mission it could have been double. You could have called in staff at the time. Another important issue is that someone must be able to command. Is it something that the Government supports, to give the authority MSB the opportunity to control state resources? It's also about how to prioritize; if there are different bids from different parts of the country, where should one prioritise? Is it something that the government can imagine, to give this additional mission to the Swedish Armed Forces so that it can help when society's regular crisis response resources are not enough? There was a report from MSB today. It says that it wants to procure helicopter capacity and have a better ability to water bomb from the air. That is good, but it also wants it to be good conditions. There have already been signals from the industry that there is a low level of compensation, so there are questions as to whether it is possible to do so. But why not add, as it were, to the existing state resources available to the Swedish Armed Forces? Or should they stand on the hill when there's a fire and only be thrown in when there's a disaster fire – and then only to a limited extent? If the most important thing is for us to have better capacity to water bomb from the air, as stated in the report, the most cost-effective thing must be to use the resources that taxpayers have already paid for before buying in new ones. Another question is, finally: what about the Swedish Maritime Administration – will they help in the future?
i-4e9532553fd45b64-567	Madam President, I would like I thank Mikael Oscarsson for a very important question. As the interpellant says, it is five months left until summer, and it is incredibly important that we both draw conclusions from what happened last summer and have a stronger readiness for summer. One perspective on last summer is that some really deserve criticism because efforts were made far too late. This was the result of too weak management and control capabilities, not least for some smaller rescue services. It simply did not have the necessary preparedness and competence to deal with escalation, receive support and provide support. This made not least the course in Ljusdal not as good as it could have been. It is a fact, and we have examined it in a special review of summer fires. We can see that there were 7 000 fires at the same time this summer, which I think is more than we have ever had in modern times. Most of them were effectively extinguished, but in some places that did not happen. At the time, the time aspect was absolutely crucial, both in terms of management and control, and in terms of airborne operations. When the helicopter work works and can get started quickly, you can turn off earlier. I therefore very much share the interpellier's description of the problem. I want to start at the end of what is happening for the coming summer, because I think many people who listen to the debate are thinking about that. Currently, MSB and the European crisis organisation are purchasing helicopter resources that will be available during the summer. So it is something we did not have last summer and that we will have this summer. I cannot comment on the exact outcome of these negotiations until they are completed, but I see it as an important sign. MSB has reported that they are currently conducting this procurement in order to have a stronger own capacity by using the help of the private companies that exist in Sweden. That's one part. The second part concerns the capacity of municipalities, which was asked about. Do they really have the necessary management capacity? The conclusion of the civil protection investigation is that they do not have it today, and that is particularly true of the smaller municipalities. Both this investigation and the investigation into summer fires have suggested that the legislation must be amended: municipalities must enter into cooperation on management structures that enable them to deal with more complex and large fires. I believe that this proposal was sent out for consultation yesterday, and at the end of the consultation round, the idea is that we should return as quickly as possible to the date of ratification of legislation. I believe that we need to correct the law in this part so that even small rescue services connect themselves to organisations that have the ability to lead. On the question of whether I am open to MSB being given a larger mandate, the answer is yes. This has also been stated in the Civil Protection Investigation's proposal. The forest fire investigation has changed a little how this would be designed, but there is a focus where MSB will have the formal opportunity to prioritise resources, remedy and be involved in supporting governance and management. It was done this summer; MSB stepped forward and took a role that is not quite clear today, but civil protection actually appreciated this. I think it is important that we have legislation that reflects the needs in this area. I'd be happy to get back to you in the other parts. However, I think this is an important issue, and it is a priority for me to come back quickly with legislation to this House so that we can have a stronger general preparedness for major accidents or fires in the future.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-575	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I think what the Government says is gratifying, not least the last thing he mentioned about giving MSB that role. The Director-General has given interiors, and he cites his stomach pit feeling as a reason why he went up this summer. That sounds like a movie, I was about to say. We cannot do that in Sweden, Madam President, and especially not in view of the fact that 70% of the Kingdom of Sweden is made up of forests. We have the largest share of forest in Europe. Then we must have resources. It is great that we get help, and we are grateful to Norway, France, Poland and everyone else who made efforts. However, we need to make sure that we are the ones who can help others. It has cost a lot; it has come to the conclusion that the fire this summer cost unimaginable 1 billion. Almost as much cost it in 2014. What gnaws is that a very large part of the experience already existed at that time. So there is a danger of delay if this is to take even longer. That is why I am pleased with this approach and hope that it will now be possible to do so. I think it might be important to look at this. I have already received signals from a number of players in the industry that you are worried about what has gone out of MSB. There is talk of a fairly low amount for quite a few helicopters in a fixed replacement. Here there is probably reason to look again at Norway. They have 22 helicopters, either their own or those they have procured. This is also something that MSB themselves points to. It is important that this is now followed up so that it becomes its own resources. There is another aspect that also emerges, namely what is called municipal excess. Rescue leaders can exceed their budget if forest fires occur in one summer, and for small municipalities there can be unacceptable sums. I think we need to look at this. You send, again, an excessive amount of resources at the beginning, so that we all become winners. When it comes to the billion that burned up in 2014 or the billion that burned up last summer, there is so awfully much in the second bowl. We must also see that responsibility becomes too heavy when it is at local level. This is something that I hope the government can take the initiative so that this time we learn from all previous mistakes. The Minister said in his reply that the government is following developments. That is a good thing, but it is important that all of these different elements should come out in concrete measures that make us have a completely different level of preparedness when we get into the summer, especially when it comes to being able to use our helicopters. Then the Swedish Armed Forces' part will also come in.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-582	Madam President, I would like I will start with the helicopter issue, because today there was a proposal from MSB on how to deal with this issue both in the short term and – above all – in the medium and long term. They propose to enter into a procedure in which they are also involved in purchasing this type of stronger support from the air, which is not just about helicopters but also, in cooperation with the European structure, about the plans that may be needed. I think they have put forward an interesting proposal on how to work with this in the long term. But again: currently, from both the MSB and the EU, there are calls for fire-fighting from the air for the next summer. As far as defence resources are concerned, I think it is important to see that the defence should be dimensioned on the basis of its tasks. After all, their task is to withstand an armed attack and a war situation. I think that most people realise that this is what must be the focus of defence activities and that is the task. On the other hand, there is the possibility to call off and get help from the Swedish Armed Forces, and they are obliged by law to do so. As was said by the interpellant, the number of helicopters is not really what limits the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to come to help in these situations, but it is the possibility to switch on fire-fighting equipment and – even more – the crews who are trained for this and who can be up and spinning continuously in the air. It is this – that there are sufficient human resources – that are needed for larger and longer operations. We feel that the Swedish Armed Forces made a great deal of effort and had an ambition to help, even though we know that they needed to call in quite a lot of staff in the summer that came in and did a lot of work for this. Human resources were the crux of the matter, not the number of helicopters. However, it is reasonable that we should try to find a system in which we also try to pool the resources of the state as far as possible. However, there are some limitations to this that may not be related to the number of helicopters, but to their personnel and crew training. I want to say something for the summer, to be a little more concrete again. MSB has received SEK 65 million in the budget bill for 2019. It is about strengthening the support resources for the municipalities. Just as the interpellant said, I think it is important that the emergency services basalt have the resources and the ability to handle fires throughout Sweden – otherwise, unless the local rescue services have the ability to manage their fires, we are doing the entire system a disservice. We are therefore complementing the support resources. You buy in materials for forest fires. You buy mobile base stations for Rakel so that you have more to place in areas where the Rachel system does not work, and you also provide staff and management support. These are MSB's increased resources for the summer. In addition, they have received SEK 70 million for the training activities so that you can train more firefighters around Sweden to have a better preparedness for forest fires. These were some of the concrete things the interpellier asked for in order for us to be more prepared for the summer.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-590	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I think it's very positive if it becomes a reality – that it will be an authority that will take command of the resources we have. It can be recalled that the Government has given the Swedish Armed Forces the task of preparing helicopters for police needs. The Armed Forces are carrying out a task there, and that is a good thing. The Armed Forces have 33 helicopters. Especially Black Hawk, which there are about fifteen of, are those that are phenomenal. They can land and go up everywhere. Why not also ensure that there is always a fire barrel at these and give the Swedish Armed Forces this opportunity to help? Then there is the question of the Swedish Maritime Administration. Do they not also have to get this hook, which I have talked about so many times in this House? It should be obvious that it should be there, so that you can help. It is true that the Swedish Armed Forces did a great deal of work, but it is still a huge difference if you get the task. It used to be the case in Sweden that the task was to have that preparedness – not in small fires, but when civil society was not enough. If the government has given the Armed Forces the task of helping the police, it would not be strange but, on the contrary, naturally, Madam President, that we use the resources we have. Helicopters are precious and important in the fight against fire. Then we must use them in the most effective way possible in this regard too.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-595	Madam President, I would like This is, once again, an important interpellation. It is important that we both strengthen our preparedness for the summer and find a long-term system in which the municipalities can cope with these efforts. The small municipalities cannot do it on their own, so they must interact with other municipalities. I also think that MSB should have a more important role and a central role in supporting this. That's where I think we're on the same page. I would like to make a comment on the Swedish Armed Forces, so that there is no uncertainty about this. The Swedish Armed Forces are now legally obliged to help in the event of major accidents, including with their helicopter resources, unless it seriously impedes their normal operations. I don't think any of us want to force the Swedish Armed Forces to do anything if it prevents their usual activities, which are to protect Sweden as a nation. So that mission is there. It is important to find the right methods for this and to ensure that it works, but the team support exists. With regard to the issue of the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopter, the same legislation applies there. There, MSB is a little more hesitant about the development potential. They've written about this now, so we'll have to read it together. But the Swedish Maritime Administration believes that since they have the entire sea rescue mission, which must work 24:7, they are more hesitant to use that particular resource. It is often the case that it conflicts with ordinary activities that must work. Please read the report, so maybe we can again have an interpellation debate a little later! However, MSB has also commented on the sea rescue helicopter in the report that came today.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-600	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked me what measures I intend to take to simplify and facilitate for Swedish arms owners. Swedish arms legislation aims to create control over the handling of firearms. It maintains a high level of protection internationally, which I believe should be maintained. Within the Ministry of Justice, work is under way to adapt Swedish law to the EU's new weapons directive. The Directive aims to strengthen the existing Arms Directive, in the light of terrorist attacks, and to prevent the misuse of firearms in criminal activities. Sweden's arms legislation already meets the requirements of the directive in many respects. The Government has proposed in a legislative referral that the amendments be implemented at a minimum level, i.e. that the proposals do not go beyond what the directive requires. In addition to the implementation of the new EU Arms Directive, work is under way to prepare the proposals made by an investigator concerning the licensing of certain arms components. The proposals concern, inter alia, simplification of the authorisation requirement for silencers and the extension of the so-called weapons curtain. The Police Authority has previously been commissioned by the Government to develop its work on weapons permits and has since implemented a number of measures. Among other things, a digital application procedure has been introduced, and case types have been redistributed between police regions. The Agency has the task of annually reporting statistics on the processing times to the Government. I will continue to monitor developments as well as the ongoing work of the Politiska området to develop the handling of weapons permits.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-605	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. The purpose of my interpellation was that I wanted to know what was going to happen and what simplifications should be made to make it easier for the country's hunters and sportsmen to get their licenses. The Parliament has made several announcements to review arms legislation and reduce processing times for licences. Today, many of our hunters and sportsmen have to wait unreasonablely long to get their licenses and be able to practice both hunting and shooting in a reasonable way. In addition, the Riksdag has issued an announcement to establish a new wildlife agency. This, too, has not been delivered by the government; it is claimed that it is being investigated. Perhaps, in the next speech, the Minister will be able to answer when a proposal on this is made. Madam President, I would like This interpellation is mainly about simplification. What the Minister is delivering to me is that the European directive that is now out on a legislative referral has been able to complicate more than the European Union is demanding. There was an opportunity to reduce five-year licences. It would not have been necessary to put some weapons in category A directly, but it would have been possible to follow the line negotiated in the EU. Nevertheless, this EU directive has been over-implemented in the legislative referral. My wish is for the government to start reviewing this before it gets into a sharp position and is voted down in the Swedish parliament. In the election campaign, everyone talked about the EU directive not affecting the country's hunters and sportsmen. Nevertheless, this proposal is now on the table. Weapon Sweden has clearly pointed out the mistakes that the government has made in this work. We must be clear, Madam President, that Sweden's hunters and shooters have the highest standards of education, knowledge, fitness and storage. And the country's hunters and shooters are law-abiding, otherwise they wouldn't have any weapons-- that's how simple it is. Every day it is tested whether the country's arms owners are fit or not. Every day, the police can retrieve their weapons if they are guilty or suspected of a crime. The EU directive says we should have five-year licences again. We have the toughest demands in the whole of Europe. We try our hunters' corps and our sporting corps every day. In the EU, it is proposed that they be examined every five years for new applications. In this situation, it would have been possible to remove five-year licenses in relation to the sharp demands we already have in Sweden. This has also been considered entirely reasonable by the EU. I think I read somewhere--I might be wrong-- that even the government investigator at some point has said that we meet the requirements, so we wouldn't have to keep the five-year licenses. Yet the government chooses to go forward with the five-year licenses. Madam President, I would like My question is: Does the Minister think that the proposals in the Council of Law referral for the implementation of the EU directive are fully necessary? Are they really necessary? Is the EU calling for this to the full? Madam President, I would like Does the Minister think that the proposals will make it easier for the country's hunters and shooters? What I'm looking for is what we can do at this point to actually make it easier for the country's hunters. And does the Minister intend to fight and request derogations from some parts of the EU directive if deemed necessary?
i-3oiKVo7JMGz3nMS1oy1j8f	Madam President, I would like Thank you, interpellant, for the question! We are currently in the process of preparing the proposals to make it easier for arms owners. The facilitation parts are about what we have talked about before and that the investigation has come up with: silencers, an extension of arms parts in so-called arms curtains and shorter lead times. Both the government and the parliament have often said that we need to reduce lead times. On the other hand, I did not skip the arms directive in the answer, because if I had done so, I think I would have been told that to some extent this might make it a little more complicated. That's why I chose to include it in the answer anyway. On the Swedish side, we were extremely active in the negotiations in Brussels. It was a long series of proposals that we managed both to negotiate away and toned down to make them understand that Sweden has a system that is well-functioning. But now we have come to the point where we have to implement the arms directive, and in fact we should have already had to implement it. The European Commission has talked about fines for Sweden because we are not currently implementing legislation that we must, which means that we are currently in a phase where we need to implement the EU weapons directive into Swedish law. Then our assessment is that what we are going to do now is a minimum implementation. We do not want to go further and impose new rules on Sweden which we do not have to introduce. That is our starting point. Then it may not mean a huge commitment for most hunters, although the permit test, the five-year limit, is an extra element. On the other hand, it means a lot of trouble for the sportsman and the scorer. We cannot get away with describing it that way because the arms directive imposes these requirements. We are now trying to implement the arms directive in order not to end up in a fine discussion where Sweden or ultimately our law enforcement authorities have to pay to the EU for failing to meet our obligations. But we are not going to make a big over-bureaucracy about this. For a while lead times decreased quite quickly, but in the last year they increased a little again, which the interpellier may have followed. The police's argument for this was that the great work on the arms amnesty resulted in temporarily slightly longer lead times. But I hope that their work on both digitisation and simplification of these processes will lead to a reduction in lead times again. I will definitely monitor this and ensure that Parliament's intentions are fulfilled.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-622	Madam President, I would like I insist that you go much further. There are several weapons experts who have said this. Here the government has tried to introduce a little bit, a little harder rules. You put your weapons in category A. While the EU is actually demanding that they fall into category A – war equipment, cannons and other – only when the warehouse is in has this government said that weapons that can have such a warehouse automatically end up in category A. This means that the people who use sporting weapons cannot travel with these weapons. Although they share them, they are in category A. That's an unnecessary rule. The European Union does not demand this. The Swedish government demands it. That's the concern. We're talking about controlling the weapons. We have daily control of our weapons in Sweden. That's about 620,000 gun owners. Every day their social security numbers run through records and are checked out. If someone has committed a crime or is suspected of a serious crime, the weapon will be picked up. This system does not exist in the EU. We have this system. Even your investigator has claimed that this is quite enough. Yet the government chooses to go forward with five-year licenses. This means that some weapons will be tested for a new license every five years, which will mean even more work for those who handle weapons licences with the police. It will cost 1 000 – 2 000 SEK per case every time and create a lot of mess for these people. If you train and compete in sports shooting and have eight weapons with different five-year levels, you should regularly try to keep your sporting weapons. Think again! You're in the wrong place. You've listened too much to the wrong experts. They have a completely different agenda than to make it easier, as the intention is with this. We are high in Sweden when it comes to requirements, and there are very few weapons of these that are used in some form of crime. Madam President, I would like The Minister also refers to the fact that the EU directive is designed to reduce or remedy terrorist activities. Hunting legal weapons has nothing to do with terrorist activity, so I think the Minister has chosen the wrong word there. The legal weapons are not used in terrorist activities. Armoured weapons from various war cores around the world are used in terrorist activities. Just check the statistics. It would have been easy to check off. In fact, I have to ask the Minister a rhetorical question. Explain to me, Minister, how these changes for ordinary legal gun owners will reduce the terrorist activity in the world, as the Minister suggests in his response! How is terror to be reduced by the fact that we strangle this for legal sportsmen or hunters in Sweden, put a little harder rules and make it impossible to be part of certain shooting activities? There are 619 000 hunters and sportsmen in the country. They have tremendous control and carry out their weapons exemplaryly. Yet the government chooses to over-implement the EU directive. What if and withdraw these parts in time? Then you will not have this defeat in the Swedish Parliament.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-631	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that Swedish arms legislation in this area is a very high international class. There I really share Sten Bergheden's view. What I am talking about is the arms directive that the EU has decided on. It came about after the terrorist attacks in Europe, the whole purpose of which is to tackle illegal weapons and the cross-border trade in these weapons and parts of arms. That is the purpose of the changes to the Directive. We in Sweden do not come from the fact that we have to implement that directive. We're already behind. We should have done it. It's been pushed on, and now it has to be done. We in the government, and the experts we lean on, believe that we are doing an implementation of what needs to be implemented by this. To be clear, I would like to say that this is not the only thing we do to simplify. It's more about the silencers. It is the times, the arms closet and so on that I believe could seriously change and simplify for not least the hunters. So there is work in progress, on which I hope we can agree more. Then I think it is important to say something about what we have done on the Customs side. The resources that have been given are, I believe, very important when it comes to combating illegal weapons coming to Sweden. The amnesty that took place last year is important. I think it was 12,000 weapons that were collected last year. This has a bearing on how many weapons are circulating. We are now also reviewing the smuggling and arms crimes. There is therefore a need to do more on the illegal side, but unfortunately we also have to implement the EU directive that Sweden was involved in influencing. Nevertheless, I think it should be said in Parliament that Sweden did much better than the original proposal, thanks to hard work and cooperation with not least the Hunter Association and others who helped us ensure that the EU directive did not go far too far.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-636	Madam President, I would like If this becomes a reality, Sweden risks losing the World Championship, in e.g. dynamic shooting, in Karlskoga. Some of these weapons will no longer be able to flow from and to Sweden if Sweden goes this way. This is about athletes engaged in shooting activities. It's about athletes who, perhaps in their profession, work in the military, in the police and in other parts and who train shooting in different ways in this country. This is extremely important for the operation in other parts of the country. These people are not involved in any crimes or anything like that. They'll know that if they commit the slightest crime, they'll lose every weapon. Yet it is the government's choice to believe, Madam President, that there will suddenly be a little less terrorist activity in the world if you tighten this up a little bit more and make sure that the dynamic shooters and everything are removed. It's all wrong. That's what's wrong. Your advisors have fallen seriously wrong in this situation. It is a bit embarrassing when you see that our Swedish Government falls into that pit and actually does not see that we have among the toughest rules in Europe. We shall protect these things and make sure that they are taken care of, but we do not need to go further than Europe demands. Go through this one more time! Make sure the Wildlife Authority lands! It is three or four years since we made an announcement about it. Then there's the next step. You are also reviewing shooting ranges here in Sweden. Hear and marvel! You look at whether or not it should be prohibited to shoot in certain positions out on shooting ranges. This has not been a problem and will not be a problem. Yet the government or the police, with the good memory of the government, are engaged in this work. Be sure to get to grips with the terrorist activity and stop hunting hunters and shooters in Sweden!
i-4e9532553fd45b64-642	Madam President, I would like I simply note that we have the same ambition: that we should do no more than is required with this European directive. That is why we will implement the amending directive at a minimum level. But it is also not reasonable for Sweden to pay tens of millions of dollars in fines because we do not implement a directive, which the EU requires us to do. It would take resources from police activities or from customs activities or whatever it may be. We have to do a lot more. Not least, we need to strengthen the Police Authority so that it becomes even stronger, and we need to get to the weapons crimes in Sweden. The new arms legislation has had a major impact. We're arresting five times as many people for serious gun crimes today. This has been of great importance. The reinforcements we are now making on the customs side to prevent these weapons from entering illegally in Sweden are hugely important. The review that we make of the smuggling and arms crimes is, I think, very important. More will therefore need to be done to combat illegal arms management. On these issues, I hope that we can be very much in agreement. I also hope and believe that we can agree that we will return to some silencer issues and other issues that make life and reality a little easier for both shooters and hunters.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-645	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me whether I believe that there are measures that should have been taken after the experience of the fire in Västmanland that could have contributed to the fact that the fire in Ljusdal had not taken the same course. Furthermore, he has asked whether I intend to take any steps to ensure that Sweden has several planes capable of water bombing larger areas and whether I believe there are shortcomings in equipment, training and other technical means of combating fires and other events. In conclusion, he has asked what measures I intend to take to increase the number of civil protection personnel around Sweden so that preparedness is better in 2019. Forest fires in Sweden during the warm and extremely dry summer of 2018 were the most extensive in modern times. The country's overall civil protection resources needed to deal with several simultaneous major forest fires. Both municipal and state civil protection resources, together with international reinforcement resources and a large number of volunteers, put together great efforts to put out the fires. At the same time, the management of events showed that there are areas to develop for a more effective civil protection capability in the future. It is of great importance that society has a good ability to carry out effective rescue operations. According to the Accident Protection Act, the municipality is responsible for civil protection within the municipality. After the major forest fire in Västmanland in 2014, a large number of studies were carried out to learn and develop society's ability to deal with such events in the future. An important lesson from this work has been that emergency services and responsible authorities have seen a clear need to be able to act as early as possible in the event of high forest fire risk, including by being able to mobilise the necessary civil protection resources quickly. In light of, among other things, MSB's report in March 2016 on forest fire in Västmanland in 2014, the Government appointed the 2017 civil protection investigation. The investigation submitted its report in June 2018 with proposals on, among other things, more effective management of large-scale rescue operations and more effective government supervision of municipal rescue services. Furthermore, proposals were made which should, in the long term, facilitate the supply of part-time firefighters to the emergency services. Shortly after the forest fires in the summer of 2018, the government appointed Jan-Åke Björklund, investigator of the previous Civil Protection investigation, to evaluate the operational rescue operations in Gävleborg, Dalarna and Jämtland County. The investigation has recently been handed over to the government. Furthermore, the government has commissioned MSB to report the needs of government reinforcement resources regarding equipment, personnel supply and firefighting from the air. MSB reported part of that mission in September 2018 and will report in February 2019 the remaining parts, which relate to human needs in the area and firefighting from the air. In order to develop the state's supporting capability for large-scale rescue operations, the Riksdag has decided, in accordance with the budget proposal for 2019, to increase the grant for emergency preparedness by a total of SEK 65 million for 2019 and by SEK 15 million from 2020. The government has thus taken a series of measures to improve society's ability to deal with large-scale fires and other accidents in both the short and long term. Within the Ministry of Justice, we will prepare the legislative proposals in this area with priority and will return to the Riksdag on this matter during the year.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-652	Madam President, I would like First of all, of course, I would like to congratulate the Government on its new and important mission. The Government may well give a thought to the government base: the Liberals, the Centre Party, the Left Party, the Green Party and its own party. Madam President, I would like It was, as the Government says in the answer, a very extensive forest fire in Ljusdal in my county of Gävleborg. It was a fire that caused great material damage, and now that the new government is in place I have put this interpellation. First, of course, I would like to send a warm thought to all those who made fantastic contributions in Gävleborg County during the forest fire. It was voluntary, it was emergency services, it was the county administrative board, police officers and of course the foreign aid we received. They worked desperately to put out the fires. Madam President, I would like I produced a report from the parliamentary investigation service that shows how many people work full-time in civil protection in Sweden. It's troubling. In 2004, there were 5,839 employees, according to the Parliamentary Investigation Service. In 2017, there were 4,881. It is thus a 16 per cent reduction in the number of employees in the Council service in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Of course, extinguishing a fire requires water, a fire truck and civil protection personnel. When the trade union took note of the RUT report, they said: This is almost a beautiful painting. These are reported people who theoretically exist in the field of civil protection in Sweden. But actual employees are considerably fewer. This means that we have reduced the number of civil protection personnel by 16% on paper, but in fact we do not know how many fewer people we have to put out fires in Sweden. For a country like Sweden with a lot of forest, it is of course incredibly important that this activity works well. When it comes to the forest fire in Ljusdal, I have had a lot of dialogue with my party friends there. Stina Berg, who sits on the municipal board in Ljusdal, was active and worked around the clock to extinguish the fire. She's committed to the Home Guard. Lars Molin, then Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board, I had almost daily contact with. And just as the Government said in another interpellation debate, it is of course very difficult for a small municipality in Hälsingland inland to handle a giant forest fire. What the state can think about is, of course, why no one reacted. Why was MSB not alerted when it had been dry for three months? It got warmer and warmer, and the humidity became lower. In that situation, one might have thought about who is responsible for stepping up fire planes and for increasing preparedness for a forest fire due to a lightning strike. There, of course, the small municipality is too small to take the national responsibility. Many say we have climate change, and we do. This means that the level of preparedness must increase as it becomes drier and drier. In the Government's response, I miss the concrete measures that the Government intends to take to ensure security in view of the possible drought of the summer.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-660	Madam President, I would like I am very happy that my colleague Lars Beckman is lifting such an important interpellation and that the Government is responding. I come from Västerbotten, and I must say that I share Lars Beckman's view of the situation. I'm worried. Now this is not really the responsibility of the Government, but I come from Lycksele in southern Lapland. This corresponds to an area the size of Denmark, where we usually have a single police patrol on duty evenings, weekends and nights. We have part-time rescue services in very few places, and we have also had to shut down part-time rescue stations for economic reasons and because we have not been able to man them. I therefore look with great concern at the situation that we might have before us if we are not equipped for such a fantastic summer as we, in the opinion of many, had the past summer. For others, this is a very serious concern, as it can cause a great deal of financial and personal concern. I therefore look forward to the Government taking this issue seriously and ensuring that we develop the area so that MSB and civil protection have the resources to meet such challenges.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-663	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your congratulations and for an important discussion and debate on this subject! After all, there are only five months left until next summer, and it is important that we strengthen our preparedness in the short term. There is a shared responsibility, just so that we do not forget it. The municipalities are responsible for their emergency services. Today, many municipalities have signed agreements and have collaborations with larger municipalities that have the management, coordination and preparedness function that a smaller municipality often cannot manage itself. It is not just a matter of being prepared to manage your own business. If a major rescue effort is required, it must also be able to receive assistance from much larger players. Then everything must work, and that does not have every small rescue mission and muscle to cope with. The civil protection investigation's proposal also contains a checklist of recommendations for municipalities to consider their own responsibilities. Then we have to work on the reinforcement resources. What is the comparative support and help of the state to ensure that this works better? Then I want to report some of what we are doing, both now in the short term and then in the long term. I would like to reiterate that now we have both the proposals of the Civil Protection Investigation which are on the table and the proposals of the Forest Fire Investigation, which slightly alter the proposals of the Civil Protection Investigation. Yesterday, however, I sent out the proposal for a referral from the Skogsbrand investigation to get the overall views on this as quickly as possible and to be able to return to Parliament as soon as possible on the long-term legislative changes that are required. This concerns the division of roles between the state, MSB and the county boards, which is important to clarify, but also the municipalities' responsibilities in this. So we will come back to that as quickly as we can. It is now out for a referral, and I hope that everyone will respond so that we can move forward quickly. The short-term work is about us now strengthening MSB with resources. This was already done in the 2019 budget proposal, and this means that we are strengthening the forest fire control equipment. The stations where there are resources are reinforced with more equipment. In the case of mobile base stations, there was a discussion that the Rachel system started too late and did not really have coverage. I believe that the Rachel system covers 97% of Sweden's surface, but that leaves 3 percent of Sweden's surface area where Rakel does not work. MSB is now purchasing mobile Rachel systems that can be quickly displayed if needed to enable bluelight personnel to manage secure communication. Staff and management support for municipalities is also being built up. That's one thing, and MSB does. The second is the issue of staff supply. Again, the municipalities are responsible for their emergency services. I just want to say how important part-time firefighters are. It is impossible to imagine a rescue service in Sweden without part-time firefighters. That's how it is, and that's why that business is so important. MSB has now received SEK 70 million to strengthen its educational activities. It has not been possible to provide training even though it has had either part-time firefighters or rescue workers who need some extra training in order to deal with some more difficult situations. We are now expanding that education for this year. At the moment, both MSB and the EU are negotiating agreements on the helicopter side so that we will have agreements in place with private actors who can also help if needed during the summer. We are therefore making a number of efforts in the short term, but in the long term it is the proposals of the Civil Protection Investigation and the Forest Fire Investigation that must pass the Riksdag.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-671	Madam President, I would like It's interesting to hear the government. Of course, I believe in the Government's ambitions to improve the basic security of those living in Sweden. Sweden is a forest country. This means, as the Government says, that the municipalities have an unlimited responsibility. But I do not think that any municipality in Sweden could build capacity to cope with a forest fire. The leaders of the Express quoted what the former Minister responsible for this said. Morgan Johansson argued that Sweden managed the forest fires a lot. It turned out to be a long way from the truth. In the media reporting, we could also see the heading, where Sweden was not equipped enough for forest fires. That was also what the latest Forest Fire investigation came up with. My questions to the Government are really about what happened between the forest fire in Västmanland in 2014 and the extensive forest fire in 2018. Why did they not make experiences after the forest fire in Västmanland 2014? Why did not some of what was so evident after the forest fire in Västmanland be launched? I think many people are asking these questions now. I just mentioned that the number of employees working full-time in civil protection has decreased by 16% in Sweden. So it's a significant resource weakening of something that I think many Swedes take for granted – that the fire department will come when you call. It would be interesting to know what the government's plan is to get more people to want to work full time in emergency services. I have another specific question about another of today's interpellation debates: will the military helicopters have hooks so that they can participate in firefighting? It's a little hard to put out forest fires from a helicopter that can't carry water. How will fire prevention be strengthened? Who has the responsibility in Sweden to decide on or follow up last summer when there was an extensive drought, when it became drier and drier and the risk of forest fires in Sweden increased and increased? Who is responsible and can press the red button or the blue button, for that matter? Who Can Make Decisions? Last summer it was obvious – as the Forest Fire investigation also says – that there was no clear management structure. These are things that can be done at relatively short notice. What takes longer is to train civil protection personnel and to encourage people to take the important job and work full-time in civil protection. There's been a lot of talk about part-time firefighters. It is also necessary, absolutely. However, the reduction there has not at all corresponded to the 16 - 20 percent who have left emergency services in ten years. I think it's important that if you live in a forest county – and most people in Sweden do as I said – you must be able to feel secure in and know that Sweden and Swedish authorities are prepared to handle fire. I am thinking of water bombers, for example. It's about the bet time – to get them here in a short time. So there are a number of questions about concrete measures to which I am sure many would like answers.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-681	Madam President, I would like I agree with the Government that it is the responsibility of the municipalities. I think it is very important to signal to the municipalities that it is up to them to take responsibility. Now I'm talking about part-time firefighters. My colleague Lars Beckman is talking about full-time firefighters. I have tabled a motion to the Swedish Parliament that I think that people should be encouraged to take part-time firefighter employment by combining it with other, hard-to-recruit occupations or professions that have a little lower status to raise their status and make it easier to recruit. I think we need to look at the possibilities of various forms of employment. You discussed helicopters. It's something you can think of. I think we have nine ambulance helicopters in Sweden today. I'm not counting the military side. Norway's double. What is the Government's view on having a Nordic collaboration? There are no more of us in the Nordic countries than that we could have a much greater collaboration than we do today on such critical occasions as a forest fire. I believe that we could have greater Nordic cooperation in crisis cooperation than we have today.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-684	Madam President, I would like These are important issues in which national cooperation is absolutely essential. It is just like with the municipalities, as we discussed. A single municipality will not have all the resources to deal with a major forest fire. Rescue services are not dimensioned for that. This is why the legislation is designed so that a municipality has the right to request and receive assistance from other municipalities but also from state authorities if it does not seriously affect their regular activities. The Swedish Armed Forces and other activities must help in the event of major accidents, and I think that is a good order to have. The same applies to international cooperation. The development of the fires in Sweden had not been as successful without international aid. There is both a Nordic and a European dimension. In Europe, we are now discussing how to strengthen in the rather short term the capacity for water bombing by aircraft. There are ongoing discussions, and Sweden definitely wants to be part of those discussions. Perhaps we can find a solution in the Nordic region where we will have stronger resources together. I think it's interesting. MSB makes such proposals today. Let us read them through properly to see if this is the right way to go. I believe a lot in that way forward. Today, there are also large private helicopter resources, which we must be able to use faster and better, as did Lars Beckman. At the moment, a tender for helicopter resources is underway in Sweden for the summer. Part-time firemen are central. I think it is wise to look at various collaborations. The whole organisation has changed – larger areas, more associations of municipalities – so you can of course ask what is reduced organisation and what is change. The civil protection investigation also proposes stronger supervision of municipal civil protection. There are, of course, legal requirements to maintain this, and exactly how must be discussed. Now, during the consultation period, comments can be made on this. I believe, however, that it is important that we reach a decision in order for there to be a functioning and sufficiently strong supervision of civil protection. I will try to catch up with Lars Beckman's question about the difference between 2014 and 2018. I can start by saying that some things worked better in 2018 than 2014. The first is that most rescue services acted faster in 2018 than in 2014 – otherwise they would not have been able to handle 7,000 fires in one summer. Collaboration between MSB and the municipal emergency services was improved. MSB also took a more proactive role in this, which was appreciated. MSB was also faster to get international help. This came very late in 2014, but in 2018 we were much faster, which was important. Stabs and management support for municipalities was also better, but it was still about 70 municipalities that did not have management support and a preparedness organisation that worked in their municipal rescue services. It is often about the smallest municipalities. Another thing is that there are still problems with the Rachel system in sparsely populated areas. Now MSB buys up more mobile stations to be set up. The state forest fire depots were too shrill. There was too little extra government effort to put on the materiel side. This is now being reinforced. We have learned some things, but there are also important lessons to be learned – otherwise we would not have put these investigations in place or sent them out for a referral. Now they are out for consultation, and I hope that we can come back to Parliament for decisions, not only on short-term solutions but also on the long-term division of responsibilities.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-696	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the debate. I would like once again to thank everyone who made great contributions in Ljusdal and elsewhere where there was a fire. But it is clear that we who saw Mission review– I can note that I wrote this interpellation before the program – were concerned about how bad things are with equipment and communication, for example. There's no such basic equipment as fire hoses. I think many were surprised that in Sweden in 2018 we could not extinguish fires because it lacked the s fire hoses. This is a fundamental issue in the Swedish social contract. Madam President, I would like It is not a secret that I think it would be much better to invest in strengthening civil protection in Sweden than, for example, introducing a free year. It's the same cash the state has. I believe that a great many citizens want a government that prioritises the fundamental functions of society. I think there was an interesting question raised in the line shift, and it is relevant to ask the Government if any initiatives have been taken to find, for example, a Nordic cooperation on fire aircraft, water bombing or hydroplanes. Has the Government taken any initiatives in this direction? And what is the most important Government and Government will do to make those who live in Gävleborg feel safe this summer, should the same heat arise? What are the three most important things that the government and the Government see in concrete terms to do for the summer of 2019? The same si tuation can occur again with lightning, if it becomes as warm, nice and lovely summer again as last year. What has the government done concretely for this summer?
i-4e9532553fd45b64-701	Madam President, I would like I would also like to conclude by thanking not only the interpellants for an important debate but also all those who contributed this summer. Many made it possible to extinguish the record number of fires, 7,000, that ravaged Sweden. We can see that no permanent dwellings were burned up. Unfortunately, a fireman was killed at work, but otherwise we did not get much personal damage, which in this context must be seen as a success when there were so many fires. But we take this very seriously and draw conclusions from it, both with the Rescue Services investigation and now with the Forest Fire Investigation, to really learn. In answer to the direct question, I would like to tell you what we are doing better for this summer. We make sure to equip civil protection with more material to deal with forest fires. We buy new base stations for Rakel so that communication works better, even where Rakel does not have coverage. We make sure that the staff and management support, which partially failed in Ljusdal, works better. We have given more money to training activities so that civil protection can train more staff to deal with forest fires. And above all, there is currently a procurement of helicopter resources. So it is for this summer. In the long term, we must also get legislation and the division of responsibilities in place. I hope that we will be able to come back to Parliament with the end of the consultation period so that we can jointly decide on a longer-term stronger preparedness for major accidents and fires in Sweden.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-704	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has asked me if I accept that Dalarna and other comparable counties have a lower police density per 100,000 inhabitants than the kingdom as a whole. The interpellant has also asked if there is any lower limit for me as to how low the police density per geographical area unit is acceptable in a county, given the long cancellation times that today's order entails. Sweden should be a safe country to live in. It requires a strong judicial system and an accessible police officer. Strengthening police work and enabling more police officers to fight crime and increase security throughout the country are priorities for the government. The mission of the Political Authority is to make a resource allocation that means that you live up to your commitments throughout the country. I share the interpellier's view that the number of police workers needs to increase and that more needs to be done even if progress is positive. Increasing the number of police workers is a prerequisite for better accessibility throughout the country. The increase in the number of police officers leaving the profession in recent years has levelled out. Last year was a record year in several ways. For the first time, the police had over 30,000 employees, and there were also record numbers who applied for police training. It is gratifying that the attractiveness of the Political Authority seems to be increasing. With the ambition to continue the positive trend, the Police Authority continues to work, among other things, to streamline and modernise the admission process to police training in order to increase the influx of new police officers. At the same time, work is under way with the workers' organisations to get fewer police workers to quit and to increase even more the attractiveness of employment at the Police Authority. There is also a joint effort with the Police Federation to upgrade the police profession. From the government's side, we are determined to carry out the expansion announced so that the Police Authority can increase by 10,000 employees to 2024, an increase that will benefit the whole country. In the annual report for 2018, the Police Authority shall report on the extent to which there are equal opportunities to receive emergency assistance from the police across the country. In conclusion, I can assure Mr Bohlin that the government is working intensively to create the conditions necessary for increased police density in both urban and rural areas.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-710	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to welcome Mikael Damberg in his new mission as Minister of the Interior. There is certainly much to be done in this area. Let us start with a snapshot, Madam President. Today, we have almost exactly as many police officers on duty as we had in 2014, when the current government took office. There are slightly fewer now than then, 20 to 30 people, but about the same number. During this period, Sweden's population has grown by about 300 000 people. What this has done for society is evident in daily news reporting. Today we have a very difficult situation for Swedish police. This is a discussion. The second discussion is the one I raise in my interpellation. I welcome and am pleased that there is a political consensus on the importance of getting 10 000 police officers. We can discuss which roads we see. We Moderates believe that it is important to have a special wage investment, which the government has so far been a bit cool about. But it's another discussion. What I'm asking about in this interpellation is whether the Minister for the Interior accepts that in some counties, for example in Dalarna, there is only half the police density as in the country on average. In Dalarna, we have 120 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants, which can be compared to 200 police officers per 100,000 inhabitants in the country on average, although the difference is extremely marginal in terms of the number of reported crimes. If Dalarna had only half as much crime as the average of Sweden, I could possibly understand the priority, but that is not the case. There is only a marginal difference from the national average in the number of reported offences. Yet we are forced to endure only almost half the police density. What does this mean for a vast county like Dalarna? Well, that means that, per geographical area, we get an exponential function of the lack of police density. That is to say, we have a four-fold higher police glimmer per geographical area. In Dalarna there is a police officer of 80 square kilometers. In the kingdom that number is a police officer of 20 square kilometers. This means, of course, that in terms of effective police work we get even less back for our tax money, for the police who are forced to use most of their working time in the field to transport themselves – to travel the long distances that we have at home in Dalarna. An example from the reality is from October – November this year, when we had a situation up in Malung where a serious crime had to wait for 2 hours and 45 minutes for a police patrol to arrive at the scene. This is the reality as it stands. What I wonder is: Does the Minister of the Interior think it is reasonable for a county like Dalarna to get only half the police density? Whether it is reasonable or not, I would like to know what is the reason why we in Dalarna have been so disadvantaged in relation to the rest of the kingdom when we do not have a visibly lower crime, other than possibly at the margin.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-718	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, for both the interpellation and the welcome of me as the new Minister of the Interior! I think we have a common starting point. This is an unreasonable situation, not only in Dalarna, but in many parts of Sweden, where the police today are forced, because they have such a small organisation, to priorities that are really unreasonable. That is where the basic problem lies. You have to put this question in perspective. It is not just Dalarna or the Police Region Bergslagen that has problems, but there are many police regions where the police sometimes have to opt out of certain efforts or come very late because they do not have the resources. The starting point of getting the entire police organization to grow with the ambitious target of 10,000 more police employees by 2024 is really a solution, not only to Bergslagen's problems but to the whole of Sweden's problems with too little staffing. I would like to stress how important this is. We know this in Parliament. But the starting point is that it is the Police Authority that decides how resources are to be allocated internally within the organisation and what measures are to be taken to carry out the tasks you have. I think that is basically a wise order. I do not think it would be better, for example, for me, the government or even the Parliamentary Committee on Justice to start distributing police resources without the knowledge and experience that the Police Authority has. But I am not saying that the Police Authority has an easy task to make these assessments, and that is why I do not want to review them. The Authority shall report on the fulfilment of its mission. If we look at the activity statistics for the whole region, we can see some positive developments over the past year, where the number of employees has increased by 50 people since December 2017. We are beginning to see the impact of the growing resources, and those who now come out of the training courses can start to be hired, but it will take a while before we get to what we have wanted. An ambition with the new police organisation – when the new organisation was implemented, it received quite a lot of criticism, and some even left the police in connection with it – was to work with the local police area level and get more police close in the business. As far as the resources in Bergslagen are concerned, there has been a clear improvement since 2015 in getting out the local police organisation. Again, I am not saying that it is a good thing, but I say that progress is moving in the right direction. That area is being strengthened, and I see that as a positive thing. After all, it is essential to have a local police officer present. I will also give some credit to the Police Authority for actually increasing the number of cases reported to prosecutors by 4.6%. It's going in the right direction, but it's gonna take a while. Let us, together in broad political agreement, try to achieve this! It is about making the police profession more attractive, so that more people want to stay in the profession or return to the profession and so that they can also manage the recruitment process. There's a lot of work going on here from the police department. There are two new police colleges. I visited one of them, in Malmö, the other day. We are now also making sure that more people are educated, because this is the only prerequisite for getting more police officers in place in Dalarna as well.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-727	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Of course, it would be welcome if we got the 10,000 new police officers in place, preferably tomorrow. But the question is whether it solves the problem of the distribution key within the agency. Should we continue to have a misallocation of resources that does not really correlate with the number of reported crimes? It's not right to take the right path. I certainly agree fundamentally with the Government that it is ultimately the Police Authority that has to make its own priorities, but the ultimate responsibility is always political. Finally, prioritising resources can be made a political issue if one perceives that different parts of the country do not really exchange on their paid tax chandeliers. I am not sure that you will get an exchange of your paid tax crowns in, for example, Malung, where you will have to wait 2 hours and 45 minutes when a serious crime has been committed and where the public will have to keep a suspected perpetrator. This is not what we expect from our social contract. I would therefore like to return to the question: what is the lower limit of misallocation before the Minister thinks it is becoming problematic? I'm afraid this order risks becoming a self-playing piano in a negative way. If people in rural areas have to wait 2 hours and 45 minutes for the police to come when they call and there has been a serious crime or event, they finally stop calling and reporting. This, in turn, means that both the police and politicians can say: in this region there are no serious crimes committed, and so we can allocate resources elsewhere. I'm terrified of that. On the one hand, it means that society is failing its citizens. On the one hand, it risks leading people to engage in parallel enforcement and solve their problems alongside the law. I think we both agree that this would be an extremely unfortunate development. Regardless of the 10,000 police officers or not, it is important to see how resources are allocated. Mikael Damberg's party colleague Göran Johansson, peace over his memory, once said: It doesn't matter how big the wheel is; there is only one hub. I think you should be careful to make the mistake of looking at the police region level when you say that you have increased the number of employees, because it is a little comfort if there are more police officers in Örebro city when serious crimes are committed in Malung. It is necessary to look at the distribution throughout the region in order to establish whether or not the distribution has been beneficial, otherwise there is a risk of missing essential elements. It risks public confidence in the police if you feel that there are no police officers in the part of the country where you live – something that unfortunately is part of what everyday life looks like today.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-734	Madam President, I would like This is an important interpellation. The local presence of the police is important for the credibility, legitimacy and sense of community contracts. I chose to focus on regional level because there we have statistics showing a growing organisation. It does of course matter whether regions grow or shrink for the resources that can be found locally in each location. However, I also mentioned the local police area level because 58% of the resources of the Police Region Bergslagen go to the local police area level, which is a clear improvement compared to 2015. It is a bit technical, but it is an indication that, since 2015, more resources have been printed in the local police organisation in the region, which I interpret as a positive development. This does not mean that the police will have sufficient resources in all parts of Sweden over the next few years. We know that this is the case, and it will be important for the police to be able to make rapid changes and redistribute resources when a crime development occurs or when insecurity flares up. The police have become better at making such efforts, which is also a thought of the new organization. There is no quick fix on this issue because today the police are being forced into almost unreasonable priorities. There is a lot of serious crime going on every day; it is enough to open the newspaper to see the very vicious crime that the police have to strike at. If we were to accept this kind of crime, the social contract would break down. Positively, police work results in many arrests. It is true that many crimes are committed, but almost every day people are also arrested after these crimes. This means that it coats in and that the police manage to deliver and quickly remove some of these people from the street. The police authority is clear that local work is the deciding factor in the long term. So the ambition is to make the local organization stronger and clearer. Back to the issue of education. I hope we can have a constructive discussion on this. We expect 1 300 police students to go out, which is the highest figure since 2010. It is absolutely crucial that we succeed in police training if we are to deal with these issues. The police authorities can recruit and hire more people, and they recently passed 30 000 employees for the first time. But many are civil servants, and they are needed for investigations to be completed and people to be prosecuted. But if you are to have visible people in place, the real police force is in place, and then police education must both grow and maintain a high level for a number of years.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-743	Madam President, I would like I'll start where the government left off on the education issue. I agree that it is an important issue to resolve, and that is why we Moderates have made it clear that we believe that what is needed to fill the training places is the specific wage investment that we have proposed. It is a tool to increase the attractiveness of the police profession and fill the seats, because it is a little comfort to have many training places if they cannot be filled by qualified applicants. Returning to the question of the distribution of resources within the police regions and the country as a whole. Let me return to the West Valleys. During the autumn we saw bustling headlines that Sälen would have ten permanent police officers during the winter. It was opened up as the most positive news of the autumn, and people cheered. But let's put it in relation to the rest of Sweden. Now we go into sports holidays, and Sälen goes from being a village to becoming a city with 100,000 inhabitants. Unfortunately, it is not only honest skiers who go there, but also a large part of Sweden's criminal elite. They also celebrate sports holidays and have vacations but at the same time take the opportunity to commit crimes. In what other part of the country had we cheered and called it a success that a city of 100,000 inhabitants has ten permanent police officers? This is the contrast we need to bring with us when we look at the distribution of police forces in Sweden.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-746	Madam President, I would like It is important that we continue to expand the police force, because otherwise we will constantly have this draft battle for resources. That's what we're landing in. I do not want to polemise, but it is also important to see that we have greatly expanded our education. Now there's twice as many police training as we did when we took over. It's important, because otherwise we won't be able to pass police training in the future. Let me put the honourable Member right in the second part. It also requires good conditions for our police officers, and all the money for the Police Authority that the Riksdag decided on, including the resource supplements for wage development, is now available at the Police Authority. Every penny is there, and I assume they use it both to grow as an organization and to improve conditions. This has been said to comment on the important issue of police salaries and conditions. Finally, I believe that, unfortunately, there are quite a few local debates about the fact that police resources are not enough. I hope and believe that we will find a way to run this together. It would be unfortunate if the government and parliament began to direct the police's resources from their perspective. That would not be a good long-term development. The Police Authority must have a mandate to allocate resources and ensure that the police are in a strong position in places where crime is high and insecurity is holding hold. The police also deserve some respect for the difficult task of allocating today's too small and limited resources. Our joint responsibility to strengthen them in the coming years is therefore important.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-751	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm has asked me how I see the possibility of 中 throwing the Reepalu investigation into the trash and allowing us to have other forms of operation within our welfare and whether I have any plan for how our welfare should be run in equivalent forms regardless of the operating form and how the new direction will be received by all municipalities and regions in the country. The difficult post-election parliamentary situation led to the conclusion of the so-called January agreement by the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals. In order for the agreement to be reached, all four parties had to make compromises in their policies. The January agreement states that during the term of office the government will not work on the issue of a profit limitation for private actors in the welfare sector. Under the January Agreement, operators of whatever type of operation must have a level playing field. Precisely what changes are appropriate and what consequences are expected for municipalities and county councils need to be further analysed. The government has also to take into account the fact that there are several investigations and other work that may have an impact on the welfare actors' conditions. Freedom of choice is a central part of the Swedish welfare model. We shall safeguard freedom of choice, and we shall have a variety of different actors. The Government shall work for equal conditions regardless of the mode of operation in the welfare. Individuals should have good conditions for making an active and informed choice. It is also important that there is strong confidence and legitimacy in welfare systems. Regardless of the executioner, the tax resources shall be used effectively. All welfare practitioners have the same requirements to meet the requirements of laws and regulations for quality. The government and the cooperation parties will work together to improve the quality and supervision of welfare.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-757	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the answer, although I may find it a bit boring. It's a standard response that all ministers are using right now. It is hiding behind the difficult parliamentary situation and that all parties that have concluded the agreement must compromise. In my questions to the Government, I emphasised, among other things, that according to the January agreement, actors in our welfare must have equal conditions, regardless of their operating form. But the Government has chosen to hide this issue in an investigation, and it will be analysed. In my world, this is another delay. I will quote from the January Agreement, to which the Government has referred. It clearly states that the individual's freedom of choice is a central part of the Swedish welfare model. There is therefore a need for a variety of actors and good conditions for individually driven welfare activities that facilitate the individual's active choices. The government will not pursue or further pursue proposals for a profit ban or other proposals aimed at imposing profit restrictions on private actors in the welfare sector. High quality requirements should be governing. This will be expressed in the 2019 Spring Change Budget. Proposals will be made to ensure that all actors in welfare, regardless of their mode of operation, have equal conditions. ..................................................... With this as a background, it becomes a little strange when, throughout the election movement, the Government had mantrad that there would be a choice if welfare and profits in welfare would be severely limited. In January, the Government made it very clear that profit hunting does not belong in Swedish welfare and that citizens' tax money has been allocated to welfare – to improve school outcomes and give our elderly a safe care – not too large profits. Then I'll be puzzled: Has the Government changed its mind, or has the Government gained new insights?
i-4e9532553fd45b64-762	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm, for the post! I wish to begin by regretting the boredom. I will make an effort to reduce the boring elements of the political debate. But sometimes politics is boring, because it is based on technical solutions, investigations and impact assessments. This is also the basis on which our legislative process is based and, in essence, it is wise for laws to be investigated, referred to and prepared in accordance with our constitution. No, Madam President, I have not changed my mind, nor has my party. Government formation has led to a programme agreed by four parties. This programme or agreement is the result of compromise. This means that there are many points in the agreement that are not the policy of the Social Democrats but the result of compromise between four parties. Why, then, have the four parties chosen to act in this way? Why are we now pursuing a welfare policy that is not in line with the policy on which the Social Democrats as a party went to elections? Because Sweden needs a government. Our analysis of the post-election situation was that the democratically minded parties in this House need to cooperate and compromise in order to bring about a government that protects and defends the fundamental democratic values of our society. This presupposes that the xenophobic party of the Swedish Democrats does not have a definite influence on the government's policy. I am convinced, Madam President, that it was the right assessment and conclusion of the four parties. This does not mean that these parties have changed their minds on substantive policy issues. We will disagree on various issues, but now we have negotiated a joint programme. This programme will be honoured by the government, and I will, as the responsible minister for public sector issues, of course respect the direction agreed between my party and three more parties, which is the government's programme during this term of office.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-766	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for a clear answer! It was a little less boring. The Government's response states that it has strong confidence in the legitimacy of welfare systems and that our tax funds, regardless of their performers, should be used properly. There I fully share the Government's picture, but I would like to give a clear example: In a new study that has come from the healthcare companies via Almega, it is shown with great clarity that in 20 out of 21 county councils or regions, primary care run by county councils is in deficit. In 2017, the deficit amounted to nearly SEK 740 million. This, I think, does not show responsibility for our tax resources. I believe that we should be able to take responsibility for tax resources in a completely different way so that everyone can benefit from the care and care for which the funds are intended. It is strange that the health centres that the county councils run today receive in practice more money for their activities, as they are allowed to go with loss. These losses are also amortised in many county councils. This puts private or alternative forms of operation at a high disadvantage. If you want to have a similar view of these activities, it will be a very tricky situation. We can also talk about renting. Many county health centres and health centres pay rent based on the number of patients listed. Alternative forms of operation and private operators pay market rents, and I would therefore like to put a question to the Government: does it see an opportunity to operate with competition neutrality, which does not exist today?
i-4e9532553fd45b64-770	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm! You mentioned several of the issues that will need to be addressed by the forthcoming investigations that will result from the agreement that exists between four parties. The equality of welfare should be the focus. This applies to care, school and care and requires that we look at the financial conditions and other conditions for the operation and operation of the care. There is of course a need to investigate several of the issues raised by Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm. We also have issues of public access and transparency, which are relevant here, as well as issues of compensation. Basically, the government will work on the issues relating to the equivalence of Swedish welfare. This is part of the equivalence. Another part of the equivalence concerns the work to ensure the financing of welfare, the distribution and equalization between municipalities and county councils, which will now be subject to referral, and several other issues that are fundamental to the equivalence of Swedish welfare. We need to focus on equivalence – it serves our society. The government's focus in the coming years will be to offer public, private and non-profit actors the best possible conditions to conduct welfare activities. Of course, we will also focus on the efficient use of resources, both in the activities carried out by private operators in the public sector and in the activities carried out by private operators.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-774	Madam President, I would like I share the view of the Government, and I am pleased that the Government sees this as a complex activity and that these are also very complex issues. That is why I have respect for the fact that we need investigation and analysis in order to obtain as much wealth as we can get for the tax resources that we have available. I am very pleased that we can agree that welfare is a key element and that freedom of choice within our welfare is also a centred and important part in order for us to be able to pursue the Swedish welfare model further. I can only regret that the Left Party has had such a high tone in this debate in the past and above all throughout our electoral movement, which I think has damaged our whole welfare model in a very negative way. But it is positive that we can continue to work, that we can continue to develop welfare and that we do so on equal terms. I am very pleased that the Government has come to realize that Sweden needs freedom of choice and that different forms of operation are a success factor in developing Swedish welfare to become the way we want it and to become a good and secure welfare for everyone throughout the country.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-776	Madam President, I would like I welcome Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm's attitude. It bodes well for cooperation between the parties in this House to create the best possible conditions for Swedish welfare throughout Sweden. The more parties that participate in this cooperation for good welfare in Sweden, the better it is for our country. There is no reason to limit this dialogue for improving welfare to the four parties that have now concluded the January agreement. If there is also a will from the Moderate Coalition Party to take responsibility for our country and be involved in this process, I welcome this, of course, as Minister of State.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-777	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark(M) has asked me how I and the government have assured us of increased awareness of the risks of socially important infrastructure and better functioning procedures among Swedish authorities dealing with energy supply and distribution. Let me begin by saying that I take seriously the shortcomings that have emerged from Swedish power grids. Security issues are high on the government's agenda. Authorities that carry out activities that are to some extent relevant to Sweden's security must also carry out systematic security work. There are now several reviews of the shortcomings within the Swedish power grid. However, in order for their conclusions to be properly addressed and to lead to constructive action, it is an advantage to have a new management in place that has not been part of the processes now under review. The Government therefore decided last week on a acting Director General of the Swedish Power Network. Swedish power grids were commissioned by the Government in the 2017 regulatory letter to report on the overall measures taken by the Swedish Business Authority to carry out systematic security work in accordance with the Swedish Security Act and the Swedish Security Ordinance. The issue of security and information security was also raised at the annual government dialogue with the Swedish power grid in June 2018. At the beginning of January, the then co-ordination and energy minister Ibrahim Baylan also called the then Director General of the Swedish Power Network. In order to strengthen the protection of the most protected activities in society, the Government has prioritised the work on a new security law. The new law, which represents an increase in ambition in this area, will enter into force on 1 April 2019. However, an obligation for state authorities to consult the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces prior to outsourcing certain activities was already introduced a year ago. The Government has also initiated a new investigation in this area which, on 30 November 2018, submitted its report, which is currently being referred. The report includes, among other things, an increase in the burden of outsourcing, the assignment and transfer of security-sensitive activities and a significant strengthening of supervision in this area. The government will continue to act to raise awareness of the importance of the security work. Among other things, work is under way to further develop government governance in the Government Office regarding security and information security issues.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-781	Madam President, I would like In this late hour I have to say that it feels like a little déjà vu to discuss security practices and risks with Minister Ygeman, even if he shows up this evening in his new role as Minister for Energy and Digitalization. Madam President, I would like These are very central issues. In my interpellation, I refer to the interim report, Resistance, which the Defence Committee presented in December 2017, where we just show the vulnerability of society and that an antagonist, an enemy, does not necessarily need to use only military force to strike Sweden. You can also get Sweden on its knees by hitting central functions. I myself usually remind you, Madam President, of what Sweden would look like because we have lacked access to electricity, water and the Internet for a week. How does it affect society and society's functions? That is why this type of security practices and security issues are so central in the Swedish Government. Madam President, I would like Then I must say that this government has, in my opinion, taken a little lightly on these issues, or has suffered unprecedented bad luck. It is not once or twice but recurring that we see this kind of vagueness appear from Swedish authorities. Today we are talking about Swedish power grids. A little over a year ago, we spoke from the Parliament's speaker's chair about the Swedish Transport Agency. There is a great risk that in a year's time we will talk about something else. That's the problem. I therefore call for a little response from Minister Ygeman as part of the collective government on how to work on these issues in the long term, purposefully and continuously. I must say that I think it is good that the Government has dismissed the Director-General and appointed another temporary one. Just a few weeks ago, it sounded a different way. I think it was on 11 January that the Director-General was announced that he would remain. But on 7 February, the Director-General left. Another characteristic of this type of security practices and risks is that it is rarely or never the government itself that tells this, but it is thanks to scrutiny and follow-up media that the revelations come. This has been the whole journey when it comes to Swedish power grids, and this was the case earlier when it came to the Swedish Transport Agency. In this late hour, I would like Minister Ygeman to tell us a few Members who remain in the Chamber how the government is working on this. I do not know whether Swedish power networks have been the subject of the Prime Minister's own Security Council work. I think it should be. Finally, the question that we are all thinking about, Madam President, is whether Minister Ygeman has now found a safe room in which he can conduct conversations unobstructed with his Prime Minister.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-788	Madam President, I would like His Wallmark makes a fool of himself, even though he knows better. I have never had any trouble finding a room to discuss anything with either the Prime Minister or any other minister. However, there are things that can only be discussed in those rooms, which means that I do not discuss such things with the Prime Minister or any other minister in other premises, such as the coffee queue or the restaurant queue. That's what I said in an interview. I think Hans Wallmark is fully aware of this, despite the fact that he comes with this rogue gleam. I believe that Sweden's security and security work must be taken much more seriously than that, Hans Wallmark. We have had a number of stories where outsourcing and outsourcing have been done poorly, without sufficient consideration being given to safety aspects and without proper security work being done before. If Mr Wallmark is disturbed by the work of this government in this area, as he is the expression of in this interpellation debate, I can inform Mr Wallmark that, before this government took office, there was another government pushing for outsourcing. It required authorities to publish sensitive data abroad. It did so without strengthening the Security Act in the way this government has done, without strengthening the systematic security work in the way this government does and without constantly raising these issues in the government dialogue. It would therefore be interesting to hear how Hans Wallmark views the eight years in which his own party was responsible for this development. Hans Wallmark also asked if the Swedish Power Network Authority had been a member of the Government's Security Policy Council. To that question I answer that I do not know, because for a year and a half I have not been part of the government, but instead a fellow Member of Parliament with Hans Wallmark. For a year and a half I have not been a member of this council either. So that question may be put to someone else. I think I have responded to Mr Wallmark's comments. I would like to respond briefly to the introduction made by Mr Wallmark to the report submitted by the Committee on Defence. I think that's good. The more complex and developed a society becomes, the more potential vulnerabilities there are for an attacker to exploit – whether it is a terrorist organisation, a foreign state or just a malicious political pressure group. This means that society's defence mechanisms must develop at the same pace. The important thing in this work is that the security work is in place from the beginning, because it can be difficult or impossible to throw it afterwards, and that there is a systematic security work in which one, as an authority or responsible person, finds out which vulnerabilities may exist, finds out where the sensitive points are and systematically works to eliminate those risks.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-795	Madam President, I would like It may well be pointed out to the members of the government that, when they have been part of the power since 2014, it becomes more difficult and difficult to distance themselves from their own responsibilities by pointing to the government period 2006–2014. On the other hand, I will actually acknowledge that I think that some of the changes that have been made in recent years – law enforcement, the Security Act and some of the things that Government Ygeman listed – have been essentially good. Nor do I believe that the government has faced any active opposition in this House to such changes. Nevertheless, it is important to take these kinds of issues and threats very seriously and to stress how important it is that authorities are not clueless. This applies both to authorities that have been involved in safety risks, such as the Swedish Power Network and the Swedish Transport Agency, and to authorities that have not been involved so far. They have to face the seriousness. In fact, it has not been allowed to depart from previous rules and legislation either. There is every reason to remind you of that. I would like to return to the interim report by the Committee on Defence, which shows precisely the vulnerability and vulnerability of modern society, Madam President. To be honest, I think that we should give greater consideration to this across party and bloc boundaries, whether we are currently part of the government or part of the opposition. I think this is the defence committee's major contribution in the interim report: the understanding of the complexity and hence vulnerability of modern society, as well as how important it is to comply with procedures and legislation and that legislators, when needed, follow up with new, strengthened legislation. Nevertheless, I think that this House can look back on a number of years of having constantly tightened up legislation, Madam President. I can only promise one thing to Minister Ygeman, Madam President, and that is that I will continue to monitor this type of issue of security practices and risks from state authorities and state companies. I believe that this is important, and for those of us who are so far in opposition, it is also an obligation to follow up the government, the government authorities and the government's responsibilities in this area.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-801	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank Mr Wallmark for confirming that there was some laxity in this area in the past, for confirming that the current government has tightened up on it and for the fact that the Moderates are in favour of the tightening up of security legislation and the systematic protection work that has been done. It honors Hans Wallmark. I also think it is a good thing that Hans Wallmark will continue to monitor these issues, because I think it is a fundamental part of the parliament's power of control to review the government and the government's governance and ensure that it is of the highest possible level. This work must continue. There is no starting point and no fixed end point for the work, but we must continuously push on both the government's security work and the government's security work and increase our security level. I look forward to continuing to debate these issues with Hans Wallmark.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-803	Madam President, I would like I would just like to conclude by pointing out the following. I think it is good that the Government confirms and confirms that we have done work in this area. Madam President, I would also like to see the Council of State's last speech confirm and confirm that there has been some negligence, abuse, violation and violation of the law by the Swedish authorities and that this is fundamentally not good. Then we can divide exactly who would have done things and when and where it would have been done, but it is precisely when carelessness and pure crime are committed that we risk our common security. Regardless of whether we are currently in government or opposition, we still need to be inspired by securing our procedures and functions – in Sweden's interest.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-805	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark is, of course, right when he says that there has been negligence, shortcomings and criminal offences in Swedish authorities in their security work. That is also what we have drawn the relevant conclusions from, and we have ensured that the shortcomings are rectified and that the work is tightened up. I naturally welcome the fact that the Moderates want to be an active part of this and that Hans Wallmark wants to be an active part of it, so thank you for a good debate.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-806	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has asked me the question when I intend to take the decision to impose a public service obligation on the Mora route. The government is aware that the previous stopover in Mora has ceased. The overall objective of transport policy is to ensure a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. We are a government for the whole country, and non-governmental airports, in addition to the government's basic supply of airports, have an important role to play in achieving good accessibility throughout the country. At the same time, the environmental and climate impact of aviation should of course be reduced. According to its instructions, the Finnish Transport Agency is responsible for concluding and managing the state's agreements on transport policy-driven interregional public transport, including air transport, which are not maintained under other conditions and where there are no conditions for commercial operation. The Finnish Transport Agency has investigated the need for tendered air traffic for the period 2019-2023, and the route between Mora-Siljan Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport is not considered transport policy justified for public service obligations. However, Mora-Siljan Airport is still possible to use for stopover and other air traffic. The Government Office is currently working on an airport review. It is an initiative that the government announced in the aviation strategy. The review is carried out to clarify the State's responsibility and role as an aid provider for non-State airports and for routes with public service obligations.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-811	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. This is not the first time we in this House have discussed the question of the future of Mora airport. I am pleased to note that the turnout in this House has been very large from various parties, not least from the Minister for Infrastructure's own party, and perhaps from the Peter Helander of the Center Party in particular. There are many of us on the Dalabänken who care about this issue. In his reply, the Minister for Infrastructure only explained in principle what the Finnish Transport Administration thinks on this issue. What the Swedish Transport Administration thinks is well known, and it is the Swedish Transport Administration's attitude that has meant that for more than a year we have not had any scheduled air traffic to Mora airport. I would say that this is a matter of fate for the whole of Dalarna. Dala Airport in Borlänge and Mora airport are operated by Dalaflygnet, and I dare to say that both Dalarna airports will be threatened by extension if we do not get the air traffic to Mora back up. Then, too, organ and medical transportation, as well as the strategic role of airports in other contexts, such as reserve bases in the event of war, are at risk. A large number of the functions of these airports are in danger of being put in place if we do not find a solution to this. In the past, we had a pragmatic solution in which the Municipality of Mora was involved in ensuring that a stopover could be made and that the airport could be kept open, above all, to the business community, who asked for this. The Finnish Transport Agency stated that their interpretation of existing EU rules did not make this a possible solution. However, it is perfectly possible for the Swedish Government to communicate obligations on this route. It's not that the jack beats the king in the case of the Finnish Transport Administration against the government either. After all, it is ultimately the government that decides. We have examples from the time of the alliance government. One such thing is the case with Torsby Airport, where the government went in and pointed with all its hand and said: ..................................................... Otherwise, the talk of being a government for the whole of Sweden will only be a travesty with empty words that are not effective in practice. I would therefore like to appeal to the Minister for Infrastructure to simply take on board the great consensus that has prevailed on this issue. We note that even the governor, that is to say the government representative in Dalarna, has signed a debate article saying that there is a need for a public service obligation at Mora airport. The state must reasonably speak with a tongue; it can't be that the state in Dalarna thinks one thing and the state at Rosenbad thinks another thing. It would therefore be clearer to know what will apply in the future. And if we do not get a concrete answer today, when will we get it?
i-4e9532553fd45b64-821	Madam President, I would like Me and the Minister have discussed Mora airport a number of times. I appreciate the Minister's commitment to this issue, although we have not found a solution. The few people who look at this this late evening may not know the full background to the issue. For many years, Mora Municipality has procured air traffic at Mora Airport to Arlanda Airport, as it is not commercially viable and since the municipality and the region have assessed it as important for jobs and entrepreneurs in northern and western Dalarna. It is about 2 000 companies and 18 000 employees in rural and sparsely populated areas. In 2016, Trafikverket reinterpreted the regulations so that the Mora – Arlanda route is not subject to public service obligations. This not only meant that the State would not procure the traffic, but Mora Municipality was also not allowed to procure the traffic. The Swedish Transport Agency feels that northern and western Dalarna has a good accessibility because you can reach Stockholm by train in less than four hours. This is from Mora railway station to Stockholm Central. The fact that it then takes two and a half hours to travel from the northern part of Dalarna to Mora railway station by car means nothing to Trafikverket's assessment and obviously not to the government either so far. The four-hour limit is also not in line with the EU acquis, which refers to three hours. In Sweden, however, the Swedish Transport Administration has set four hours as its limit. In the discussions on high-speed rail, it is said that you must be able to get between Stockholm and Gothenburg in less than two hours because otherwise people will not be able to opt out of the flight. So there seem to be some different priorities and assessments depending on whether you live in Stockholm or Gothenburg or if you live in Dalarna and are going to Stockholm. You can wonder why there should be a difference between city and country in that way. Now the air traffic between Mora and Arlanda has been down for almost a year, and the situation is acute. Now the companies move their offices to Stockholm because they cannot keep them in Mora. They still have the business in Mora and Dalarna, but the next step is that the jobs disappear and the business is closed down. There needs to be a positive response from the government shortly. Otherwise, the joint operating company that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin spoke about, which operates both Dala Airport and Mora-Siljan Airport, will be closed down, and the staff will disappear to other jobs. I understand that colleagues of the Minister of Government see the day trip between Mora and Stockholm with a small aircraft as an environmental burden. The municipality has carried out an investigation into this. It shows that the CO2 load was 16,15 kg per passenger and year when the aircraft flew from Sveg and landed in Mora to move on to Stockholm. Now that the flight is flying over our heads down to Stockholm without a stopover, the CO2 load has increased to 24.6 kg per passenger per year. One might wonder how there can be more when the flight does not stop. This is because there are half as many passengers on board – this is what increases it. We also know that 80% of the passages take the car down to Stockholm. This increases CO2 emissions by 76 kilos per year. This means that total CO2 emissions have increased sixfold by not being able to fly and stop. How initiated are the discussions in the government? Is it clear that the environmental impact has increased? And are we aware that this issue is essentially about jobs and entrepreneurship and that this can disappear from rural areas? Are we aware that the issue is not really about flights?
i-4e9532553fd45b64-831	Madam President, I would like I thank both Mr Bohlin and Peter Helander for their commitment to this issue. We have discussed it on several occasions before. Now we have had a situation with a transitional government that was not allowed to act for four months – a historically long period of government formation. We took office three weeks ago, and I will honestly say that I asked for further information and preparation in the first week on the issue of regional airports, not least Mora. I have also been in contact with the local councillor and with the governor, of course, because I know that this is an important issue. This is an important issue for a lot of people in Dalarna, and it is important that we ensure that we can have good communications throughout the country. That was one of the reasons why, when I took office as Minister of Infrastructure, I chose to take a holistic approach to regional airports. In the same way that we in the framework of the aviation strategy have a discussion about the Arlanda Council and Arlanda's development for more international connections out into the world and for Arlanda to grow as a strong hub for Swedish flights, it has been important for me to look at the entire Swedish airport structure. We have small municipalities that have often been involved in financing and operating flights with their own resources. I think we need to look at the limits of government responsibility. What does the border line really look like to ensure that we have a functioning domestic flight and good connections for both citizens and businesses? It is now over ten years since there was an investigation and a proper review of the Swedish airport structure. Since then, a great deal has happened. In some cases we have had other connections that may have improved the conditions for travelling by train or other means of communication. In other places we have seen how incredibly important the flight has been. Not least Nexchet's competition just over a year ago demonstrated the incredible challenge it posed when several municipalities, five of them, were completely out of air connections because a private company could not bear its costs. The starting point for Mora's concern is that the company, Flexflight, that flew between Sveg and Stockholm and landed in Mora double-invoiced, both Mora municipality and the state, which of course was noticed. This was contrary to the EU acquis and, in fact, also to Swedish legislation. That's what finally led the Falu District Court to say it wasn't a reasonable attitude. After that, Flexflight chose not to fly and stop on that route. It is important to say that it was neither the starting point of Trafikverket, nor the government nor anyone else to close the air links, but it was actually the airline that drove on the route that chose to put profitability before the mission to stop and manage the traffic from Mora. Since then, we have studied all the possibilities available to see further opportunities, not least after the courtesies we have received from Mora and the whole of Dalarna. The last one was, of course, this summer. The Government then commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to negotiate and see if there were conditions to enter into an agreement with Mora airport as a contingency airport in order to thus maintain a capacity for ambulance flights, as mentioned by Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, or for fire aircraft, an issue that has become increasingly important. In this situation and in today's interpellation debate, I cannot give any other information than that we continued to prepare this issue in the Government Office, not least in the context of the review now being carried out by the Swedish airport structure, but also, of course, on the basis of the budgetary constraints that currently exist. I'll get back to them in the next round.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-838	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for your answer. You are preparing this question and the Minister cannot give an answer today. Then let me do some handbills, because it is a matter of urgency when it comes to whether we can have any air traffic permanently to Dalarna in the future. The Minister for Infrastructure argues that it is important to look at factors such as how other possibilities for alternative means of transport have changed and whether there is a need to reconsider the importance of being able to fly to a destination. It takes longer to travel to Mora by train today than 20 years ago. There are no planned investments to increase the speed or capacity of Dalabanan. It is a train connection which has been left to the foothills for too long. If the government's answer to this is that no, nor do we want you to be able to fly to Dalarna, it echoes hollow to stand and say that you are a government for the whole country. I hope, of course, that the government will choose another route, that it will be concluded that it is of great importance that we have a public service obligation at Mora airport in order to develop this region in the future. I must respect the fact that we are not getting an answer here today. I hope, however, that it will come in an absolute near future, because this is an issue that has already been put on a long leash for over a year. It should have been decided immediately when the problem arose. We knew in advance that the problem would be just as it then turned out, leading to the cessation of air traffic. It could have been handled more quickly. However, I am not interested in standing here pointing the finger at things that should have been done, but rather hope that the government can now actually have this matter settled. I hope that it is not a small party in the government, specifically the Green Party, that can dictate the conditions for deciding this important issue. I am afraid that is the case when I see how long it takes to come to a decision on the matter. I hope that the Minister is holding the takpin and that one can simply support the broad consensus that has been said that this is an urgent issue, including the state's own representative in Dalarna, the governor.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-844	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Minister highlights the importance of taking a holistic approach, because that is what it is all about. I'll be right back. What responsibility should the state take? Here, Mora Municipality has wanted to take responsibility and pay for this. Now perhaps my local councillor at home thinks I say too much, but you could share the costs. The state and the municipality do so in many other places. This is not just about the Mora route – Arlanda Airport, it is also about jobs and being able to live and operate outside the big cities. A few years ago – it's a small parallel – the Swedish Tax Agency Mora left before the government had time to press the stop button and stopped many other tax offices that would move. But we lost the tax office. And now the Director General of Kronofogdemyndigheten also wants to move the business from Mora. Now I hope the government is faster on the stop button this time. Although it is a record infrastructure budget, and it is legitimate, no major infrastructure investments are made on Dalabanan so that we can travel by train. Unless the state stands up for the countryside, I believe that mistrust of the state and its authorities and even politicians will increase. This mistrust that creates a split is also a breeding ground for populist movements. It thrives unless people feel that state, government and politics are with them. I wonder if the overall picture and the holistic approach are included when discussing infrastructure and in particular the Mora route – Arlanda Airport. I think the Minister really wants to come up with a solution. It would be good if he could bring the whole government on this issue.
i-Fm2KpzvtANu6cmBegBmw6S	Madam President, I would like Thank you, both Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin and Peter Helander! I have to say that I appreciate the information I received from Peter Helander on the climate effect and look forward to seeing it after the debate. I also believe that we must count on the total cost of climate change for the various options available. It's important to carry it with you. This is an issue which concerns both the principles of public service obligations and the limits of state responsibility. That is what I am highlighting in the regional airport review, because I want us to create long-term sustainable solutions. What we experienced when Nexjet went bankrupt and the situation that five small municipalities in Sweden experienced was not good. You're completely cut off from air connections. The state's ability to then go in and compensate for this was more limited than I could imagine. There was a regulatory framework within the EU that first required all European airlines to be able to participate in procurement in this market. The right of airlines to bid on different routes was therefore more important than the right of citizens to good connections, in this case absolutely necessary connections, for both companies and citizens. This caused a serious delay, not least in the case of Gällivare and Arvidsjaur. I do not think that the regulatory framework is sustainable. It is not sustainable from a European perspective, but above all it is not sustainable from a Swedish perspective. Sweden is an elongated country, where we must maintain good relations. The train is not an alternative – let alone cars are an alternative – for municipalities that are far north in Sweden. That is why we need to have a better functioning domestic flight, and we need to have stable conditions so that those who receive public service obligations also have the right conditions to have tours that are sustainable. We have seen criticism of some operators who have had winning tenders but who have not had the right quality. This is why I choose to take a holistic approach in order to find the right balance in the long term and not least to find a system where small municipalities are not being pressured to participate in funding. In Mora's case, it was twice financed. It was an airline that also received state aid. This means that we are now preparing the long-term strategy for regional airports, but it is also about the solutions available with the basis we have for Mora airport. As I have mentioned before, one of the starting points has been to look at a standby airport to ensure the basic structure. There was a negotiation during the summer that could not be accepted there. The second point of departure is, of course, the budgetary consequences. In that context, I will say something, and I am not doing that to be polemic. However, the fact that another budget went through in Parliament last autumn – in December – meant that the funds that could be available for airports were halved from SEK 84 million to SEK 42 million. This means that we have a different budgetary position than we had on the previous occasion. It is, of course, something that changes the conditions, but I believe that it will be an important part of the government's discussions for the forthcoming budgetary review. Nevertheless, I take note of all the points made. I think the dialogue I have had with Mora Municipality and all representatives from Dalarna have been good. I will continue to work on this issue in the Government Office. And I will come back as soon as possible, because I am aware that there is a rush with a message. Almost no matter what the message is, it is important to put your foot down.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-859	Madam President, I would like I think we are beginning to feel each other's positions in this debate. My only appeal to the Minister for Infrastructure is that this holistic approach should not be so harsh and long-lasting that, on which the grip is connected, they will have time to die of soot death before we are told. I don't think that will be the case, but the question is, what time horizon are we talking about? Can the Minister say anything about that? I think many people who look at this at home in Dalarna would be happy to know what it is for the timetable we have to wait. When can v i be told whether we will continue to have a flight in Dalarna or not?
i-4e9532553fd45b64-861	Madam President and Mr Bohlin! My answer to the last question is: it is difficult to say at this point, but as soon as possible. I am well aware of the challenges that exist with regard to Dalaflygnet and not least Mora but also Borlänge. I am well aware of the regional discussion that exists. But I am also well aware that everyone expects us to look at all the options before we take a final position. That is also what I want to make sure of. We have now been a government for three weeks, and I want to know that I have a good basis before we make final decisions or otherwise give information on how the process will proceed in the future. The investigation into regional airports is ongoing; it will soon be in the final stage. But, of course, we are also dealing with the individual case of Mora airport. Thank you for a good interpellation debate!
i-4e9532553fd45b64-865	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me what I intend to do to tighten up the democratic conditions for contributions to organisations. Let me begin by stating that public funding should not go to activities that are incompatible with the fundamental values of society as formulated in the Constitution and in the international conventions. Nor is it justifiable for public funds distributed by municipalities to be used for such activities. On this basis, it is also important to safeguard a free and independent civil society with a diversity of organisations, activities and voices. It is a prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy. Freedom of association is one of the fundamental rights enshrined in the form of government. To ensure the existence of an independent civil society with actors who can contribute in various ways to the development of society, the state supports non-profit organisations financially. It is therefore in everyone's interest, not least in the interests of the authorities and civil society, to safeguard the legitimacy of benefit systems. As part of the agreement on counter-terrorism that the Social Democrats, the Moderates, the Environmental Party, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats agreed on during the last term of office, the government appointed in March 2018 an investigation to review the so-called democracy conditions in state grant regulations and the application of these conditions. The purpose of the investigation is to ensure that public funds should only go to activities that are compatible with society's fundamental values. The investigation will further analyse the democratic conditions in government grant regulations and propose a clearer, legally secure and uniform democracy conditions, including necessary constitutional changes. In his interpellation, Jan Ericson refers to an investigation carried out in cooperation with SKL. The survey shows that not all municipalities and county councils have guidelines for which democracy conditions apply or how they should be applied. The government should not prescribe the basis on which a municipality should grant grants to civil society. On the other hand, it is important that public actors at local level receive support and guidance for the provision of grants. The investigator will therefore organise meetings with representatives of the local government sector to discuss how they can work locally to prevent organisations that do not operate in accordance with the fundamental values of society. The investigator will also develop a support material that can be used by both state and municipal administrative authorities that handle grants. The report shall be submitted by 20 June 2019 at the latest. The review of the conditions of democracy provides a good basis for the government's future work. I look forward to continuing, in cooperation with the other parties, the work to ensure that public funds do not end up with organisations operating in violation of the fundamental values of society.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-871	Madam President, I would like I would first like to congratulate the Minister for Culture on her mission and wish her welcome to Parliament. In this late hour, we have the honour of concluding today's interpellation debates – I think that is 28 interpellations. I would also like to thank you for your answer. I must say that I welcome the fact that the Minister for Culture is clear that public funding should not go to activities that are not compatible with the fundamental values of society under the Constitution and international conventions, as the answer says, and that this applies to contributions from both the state and the municipality. As I said, it is good that the Minister for Culture is clear about this, although we both know for sure that it is a completely different matter to find an effective way of controlling this. Madam President, I would like The review mentioned by the Minister for Culture was also presented in the Society of Today at the end of last year. According to it, at least 17 billion are distributed annually in association support by state, municipalities and county councils. The state accounts for 13 billion, which is distributed by about 30 different authorities. Municipalities pay out about 4 billion and county councils barely 2. This is added to a large number of subsidised local rents, mainly in the municipalities. All in all, there are huge sums of money. And everything is tax money that the inhabitants of Sweden have paid in. Magnus Ranstorp, terror expert at the Swedish Defence University, believes that grants are awarded as confetti and that it is about lax handling and lack of follow-ups. This should make all politicians think. We have seen in recent years that it is not only extreme groupings on the political fringes that are a problem. Islamist groupings are also very concerned. And we have recently seen how the media have exposed violent animal rights activists who are directing serious threats to individuals. There are also examples of other environmental activists having violated the law and deliberately violated it. There is also information that purely criminal networks can access tax money by using a paper-free association as a cover. None of these listed organisations, associations or groupings should, of course, receive contributions from our tax money, nor should they, of course, be allowed to rent public premises. I note that the Minister for Culture draws attention to the broad political agreement on counter-terrorism measures and the investigation that exists. The only problem is that the focus of the investigation is a little too narrow, because it links it precisely to the issue of terrorism and that it is only about government subsidies. I think the question is much bigger than that. The Minister for Culture writes in his reply that the government should not prescribe on what grounds a municipality should grant grants to civil society. On the contrary, I think that this is an issue that should be discussed. Municipalities and county councils account for a large part of this money, and more than 40 per cent of municipalities have no guidelines whatsoever as to what conditions should apply. The fact that the investigator has meetings with the local government sector and produces supporting material may be one thing, but this is about such large sums that there should be clear regulations for the municipalities as well. The Minister for Culture said in the article in Today's Society that there is no uniform guidelines in the municipalities. At the same time, the current Minister for Culture says that it is not justifiable for public funds to go to inappropriate activities. Nevertheless, the Minister for Culture does not want to prescribe on what grounds a municipality should grant grants to civil society. I don't think that makes any sense. My first question, therefore, is whether the Minister for Culture should not extend the directive for the ongoing investigation so as to look a little more closely at the issue and also include the contribution of municipalities to the legal regulation of clear democracy conditions. Should we not also tighten up the rules on the monitoring by municipalities of grants already paid out so that it is not just about the timing of payments?
i-4e9532553fd45b64-882	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Jan Ericson for the congratulations and for allowing me to begin my first interpellation debate with him on this subject! I would also like to underline what Jan Ericson himself said, namely that we fully agree that grants should not go to organisations that work in violation of fundamental values. The ongoing investigation to which I referred and which is due to present its proposals in June of this year is a directive on which we have also been widely agreed and on which we are working. I think it is important that we now come to the end of those proposals. It has taken time, because investigations take time, and I look forward to seeing what the investigation will present. I share Mr Ericson's concern that only half of the municipalities have guidelines for this type of grant granting, and that is precisely why it is important for the municipal sector to receive support and guidance. That is also the reason why we commissioned the investigation into democracy in government grants, specifically to organise meetings and produce support material. It is important that we respect municipal competence in this type of grant. For the government, however, it is important that the organisations that receive state aid are also democratically structured, and I think it is important that we look at these things together. I would also like to mention that, in addition to the ongoing Democracy Condition Investigation, which is, of course, thorough, there are also two other preparations or investigations. It is about the investigation State support for religious communities in a multi-religious Sweden, which will also look at proposals on terms and conditions for support and a clarified democracy criterion. The third investigation under way is the investigation into the activities of the General Heritage Fund. The mandate includes making proposals on the definition of conditions that ensure that only organisations that respect democratic values can be supported. That report is now being referred, and the period for referral expires on 15 March 2019. These things overall will provide both tools and guidance. Jan Ericson also mentioned the control of the grants distributed. In this respect, I would like to mention that at MUCF, too, work is under way to improve procedures for the management of grants, such as stricter controls on applicant organisations. This links, among other things, with a previously given assignment by Statskontoret to conduct a government review of MUCF and look at the possibility of applying the democracy criterion. The Government has also commissioned MUCF to report on the measures taken in response to the proposals made by Statskontoret. This is a mission that has been reported, and I and the government intend to follow the issue. There is therefore a series of measures under way by the government to ensure the correct contribution, and I would like to emphasise once again that we fully agree on the ambition.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-890	Madam President, I would like It is positive that some work is going on. Setting guidelines for grants to associations and organisations is, of course, a good start, although it will naturally be complicated to establish what these basic democratic values of an association actually are. Equally important are those who are leading representatives of these associations and what they say publicly. It is also about which other organisations such an association can be closely associated with. It is therefore not an easy task of investigation that the government has given, and we are many who will take part in the investigation with interest when it is presented in June. As has been said, it is not only important to have a democratic condition in connection with the application and payment, but also to have ongoing follow-up. Not least, it is important to create a culture among those who grant grants so as to prevent the risk that rogue organisations can go around the regulations. In the case of municipal grants, the question remains as to how this may be regulated. I think we should have the courage to look at it, although I am aware that the directives do not recognise it at this time. With regard to the state's own authorities, around thirty, there are of course different cultures and traditions for how to look at these issues, how to handle matters and how to follow up on previous decisions. There is a risk that decisions will be arbitrary when each authority creates its own processes, and the said article in Today's Society also mentions that a refusal by an authority or a municipality is sometimes circumvented by the same organisation being granted grants by another authority. There is therefore a risk that all efforts will be made at the time of payment, and then there will be no resources for ongoing monitoring of compliance with the conditions applicable to the application in the future. After all, we know that an association or organisation can quickly develop in an undesirable way, and then anyone who pays grants must be able to act quickly and stop the money. I therefore have a few further questions for the Minister for Culture: how does the Minister of Culture intend to ensure that all government agencies involved in the provision of grants create some form of common culture so that decisions are taken according to the same principles regardless of the authority? How can a refusal by an authority not be lifted by granting the same organisation a grant from another authority?
i-4e9532553fd45b64-899	I understand that the Minister for Culture can only answer for the state authorities in this context.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-900	Madam President, I would like It is important to emphasise, as Jan Ericson also points out, that it is the authorities that have the government's task to manage the distribution of grants. There, the government and I have great confidence that the authorities handle the subsidies in accordance with the legislation. Of course, we also have high expectations that it will be handled properly. The authorities may require repayment of state subsidies if it is found that an organisation does not meet the expectations of state grants or if they have carried out activities contrary to the fundamental values. Therefore, follow-up and routines for this are of course important. Applying the conditions of democracy is relatively new ground for the authorities, and the government has been informed that the condition of democracy is perceived as difficult to understand, as Jan Ericson also mentioned. That is why the Democracy Condition Investigation has been tasked with proposing measures to facilitate the application of the democracy condition by the authorities, which I believe is central. I would also like to comment on what Jan Ericson is raising about creating a culture to monitor these issues in general. This is not, of course, an issue that only concerns government authorities, and it is good that the issues are being discussed. There is a value in the fact that the issues are on the table, that the government has taken these initiatives and that we are broadly agreed to look further at the issues precisely in order to be able to face the somewhat trifle boundaries that exist in this area.
i-4e9532553fd45b64-904	Madam President, I would like The question of how we prevent extremist, violent or undemocratic organisations from gaining access to contributions from taxpayers has involved me ever since I started working politically, first in the municipality and then in the parliament. It has a dual purpose – both to save tax money and to counteract these types of organisations. I have been drawing attention to these issues for a number of years. As early as 2011, I wrote my first parliamentary motion on the matter, and I have then returned with various input on the matter on a number of occasions. At present, I have a slightly mixed view of developments. It is positive that more and more people are taking this issue seriously and that there was broad political agreement on setting up this investigation. We will soon see what it has come up with. It is also positive that at least some of the problems are being investigated. At the same time, however, it feels that the current investigation only deals with parts of the problem and that other parts fall outside. I am thinking primarily of the local government sector. At the same time, I am pleased with the clarity of the Minister for Culture on this issue and hope that it will be translated into concrete policies, because this is important. As I said, it is both about how we best manage our tax money and about how we oppose organisations that have a destructive impact on our society and our democracy. I thank the Minister for Culture for the debate and I would like to take this opportunity to wish everyone who remains in this House a good night!
i-4e9532553fd45b64-909	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Jan Ericson for an interesting debate and an interesting exchange of views. I say again that civil society organisations are a central part of our Swedish democracy. The meeting of people involved in civil society organisations creates a community that contributes to trust and cohesion. Civil society also contributes to the development and well-being of society, both as a voice carrier and as an opinion-maker and with a variety of activities. It is therefore important that the state supports this commitment on the basis that I and the government have, namely that Sweden's citizens should be able to feel confident that state funds are only paid out to organisations that respect the ideas of democracy. This means that grants to organisations must be subject to strict control. A number of measures are now under way to ensure and, if necessary, strengthen the regulatory framework and procedures for state grants to civil society organisations, develop guidelines and guidance and engage in active dialogue with municipalities to provide support for the correct provision of grants also at municipal level. The Government's ambition is that there should be a regulatory framework that is clear that the organisations that take part in society's support should also live up to democratic values, which form the basis for the common construction of society. With that I would also like to thank and wish you a pleasant evening!
