i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-5	Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling has asked me what scientific evidence I have as a basis for the assumption that an increased number of jobs and economic growth will reduce the tendency to migrate from Africa. He further asks what timescale plans for Africa will generate a demonstrably reduced tendency to migrate as well as what alternative methods, so-called Plan B, I have to deal with the situation if the plan does not work. Lack of jobs and lasting livelihood are among the main reasons why people feel compelled to migrate. A more stable situation in the home country can help people who still choose to migrate do so in a safe, orderly and regulated way. Development cooperation plays an important role here. It is therefore a matter of long-term work which must, however, be complemented by short- and medium-term measures. The EU's partnership with Africa with its focus on democracy, human rights, gender equality, infrastructure, climate and social welfare is a powerful instrument to eliminate the root causes of involuntary migration. The EU provides important support for peace and security. The EU's cooperation and partnership with Africa in the area of migration is about taking a holistic approach and thus contributing to the long-term management of migration, including countering the root causes of irregular migration. In a shorter and medium-term perspective, cooperation is important, inter alia, to facilitate return and reintegration, to assist refugees and vulnerable migrants and to jointly combat smuggling and trafficking networks. The right to seek asylum shall be protected. Common priorities are also to save lives and to create legal pathways for regular migration. Migrating should be something you choose and not something you are forced to do. There is a need for continued long-term migration dialogues with the main non-EU countries of origin and transit, based on partnership, solidarity and shared responsibility. Sweden will therefore continue to contribute actively to the formulation and implementation of this policy.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-11	Madam President, I would like I would argue that the cluster of issues that are lumped together under the heading is, to a large extent, problems that Europe has created for itself. The root cause of the problems is that the left-wing liberal parties in Europe are stuck between, on the one hand, a rigid and outdated political ideology and, on the other, the real world. A fundamental position of Europe's left-wing liberals is that Europe's countries have no right to limit who or how many come as immigrants. This is clearly stated in, for example, the Dublin Regulation. At the same time, the same parties can no longer hide the fact that mass immigration from the Middle East and North Africa has brought great socio-economic pressures that must be addressed. The Union has chosen to deal with this conflict in two ways: firstly, to employ very dubious actors in North Africa to stop migrants before they reach the open border, and secondly, to address what is called the root causes of migration, which is defined as a lack of growth and living standards. Or, as the Foreign Minister himself said, if we can arrange education, work and future opportunities, there is a chance that we would rather stay. ..................................................... The problem with this plan is that those who actually do research on migration, including Professor Hein de Haas at the University of Amsterdam, Professor Paul Collier, former Director of Development Research Group at the World Bank and Professor Alexander Betts at the University of Oxford, agree that as prosperity and bnp per capita increase, so does the tendency to migrate, because migration to Europe in most cases is about a dangerous and expensive but potentially very profitable investment. To be clear, I would like to emphasise that we are, of course, behind the development plan in Africa and the EU's target of 0.7% of GDP in aid, because development aid has a value in itself. But development aid is not, has not been and will not be a working tool to curb irregular migration. What is most bizarre about this story is that parts of Sweden's government are fully aware that this plan will not work. In Minister Peter Eriksson's answer to a written question, he writes that a general contribution to reducing or increasing migratory flows cannot be said to be made by development efforts. On the other hand, research shows that an increase in GDP in low-income countries leads to an increase in emigration. Yet it is precisely development efforts and increased prosperity that Peter Eriksson's and Morgan Johansson's government wants to use to reduce the tendency to migrate. Madam President, I would like Sweden thus has a Foreign Minister and a Minister for Development, who provides diametrically opposed information in one of the most important challenges facing the future of our time and who seems to be completely ignorant of fundamental migration research. The effect of the deeply immoral cat-and-mouse game that this government and the EU are currently pushing on is that the drowning accidents on the Mediterranean continue, that the criminal syndicates controlling human trafficking continue to make great profits and that the Arab slave trade in Libya continues to flourish. I would therefore like to ask Morgan Johansson what scientific basis he has for the assumption that development aid leads to a reduction in irregular migration. I didn't hear any reference in the interpellation response. I would also like to ask whether Peter Eriksson is wrong when he says that such a basis does not exist, or whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs is wrong when she says that such a basis actually exists. I would also like to ask what period the EU expects the partnership with Africa to cause a reduced tendency to migrate. What I would like to hear there is a number of ten years.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-24	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by giving Ludvig Aspling a book tip. Jens Liljestrand has just published a biography of Vilhelm Moberg, which everyone knows was one of Sweden's most successful authors. His most successful work was, of course, the series about the immigrants, that is, the series dealing with the Swedish emigration perhaps 150 years ago and another 60-70 years ahead. Then more than 1 million people emigrated from Sweden to America – a quarter of our population. We all remember the characters Karl-Oskar-Oskar and Kristina. We know that. What drove them away from Sweden were factors such as poverty. People lived for some years on the starvation line. Sweden was at this time one of Europe's poorest countries. There was political oppression. There were no political rights. This was before the workers' movement, before the Social Democracy and before the democratic reforms. There was social oppression where people did not have the social rights that we can count on today. And there was religious oppression. If you did not adhere to what the State Church said, you were simply discriminated against and oppressed in various ways. This was Sweden 150 years ago, Ludvig Aspling. That is why Karl-Oskar-Oskar, Kristina, Daniel and Ulrika and the others in the series chose to leave Sweden. Ludvig Aspling is waving his head; but isn't what I'm saying true? Isn't that why they chose to leave Sweden – and with them 1 million more? They sought freedom from oppression and from economic poverty. I would say that there is little difference between this situation and that which now prevails in many parts of Africa. It has improved in Africa over the past 50 years, but it is still a continent characterised by poverty and political, social and religious oppression – just like Sweden 150 years ago. Add that there are a number of war cores, including in Somalia, and a loosening of the state apparatus in a number of other countries that are characterised by collapse in the administration. Therefore people want to leave Africa, for about the same reasons that our Swedish emigrants left Sweden 150 years ago. In Sweden the popular movements broke out 100 – 150 years ago. Then we got the social reforms. The labour movement pushed forward both social and political reforms in the form of the right to vote, freedom of expression and freedom of religion that built up the whole welfare state. With them rose the level of life, which led to social liberation. Then the power turned. Today, Sweden is not a country to which you are fleeing from a country to which you are fleeing. What have we learned? A couple of things, I'd like to say. One thing is that economic development is important in order to be able to choose to migrate and not be forced to do so. But that is not enough, but political and social reforms are also needed. I do not think that people in Africa work so significantly differently from what was done in Sweden 100 – 150 years ago. It's about the same momentum. They seek freedom from oppression, and they seek a future without social and economic hardships. That is precisely why aid is important in order to continue developing Africa also from the point of view of migration. My question to Ludvig Aspling is therefore: why do you want to cut back on aid to Africa, for example?
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-32	Madam President, I would like I would like to point out where the dividing line is. The Minister for Migration mentions political and social reforms as an important complement to precisely economic development in order to curb irregular migration. That's where we're in complete agreement. The Swedish Democrats have never said that we think political and social reforms, democratisation or giving people better rights is a bad proposal. Those questions have nothing to do with the interpellation. What drives people to Europe is the difference in material living standards. It's no harder than that. Europe is a rich continent, and Africa is unfortunately a rather poor continent. It makes people want to move here. It is not possible to compare this situation with what it looked like when Swedes moved to the United States. It's an absurd comparison. This suggests a rather gross ignorance of the Minister for Migration. It is a fact that he cannot give an answer to the basic question itself, namely to give a scientific reference to any researcher who says that the plan will work. I have given the Minister three references to scientists who say that it will not work. I would like an answer that contains a reference indicating that the plan will work. That's what the whole interpellation is about. We do not need to go into any side tracks, but at the moment Somali diplomats are actually travelling around the world trying to bring back migrants who have fled Somalia because the situation has improved so much. Bringing up Vilhelm Moberg and the Emigrants is not good enough. I am sorry, Madam President, but I think the answer I have received is somewhat confused.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-36	Madam President, I would like It is Ludvig Aspling who stands for total confusion. On the one hand, he says that there is a difference in the material standard of living between Europe and Africa that is driving migration. On the other hand, he says in the next breath that there is no point in social and economic development in Africa. My point is that if we achieve better economic and social development in Africa, the drive to migrate will be reduced. I understood that Ludvig Aspling still does not want to sign this, and I can understand that because the line of his party is the opposite. The Swedish Democrats want to cut back on aid. In your budget for this year, you are proposing to reduce aid by SEK 11 billion. You want to go from 1% of Bni down to 0.7%. It provides 11 billion in reduced aid for this year. It is clear that it has an impact on the fight against poverty in, for example, the countries we are talking about. At the same time, the Swedish Democrats say that it is not so important to receive refugees in Sweden but that the important thing is to help people on the ground. How's it going, Ludvig Aspling? On the one hand, you are saying that you are going to help people on the ground, on the other hand, you are saying in the next breath that you want to cut aid by 11 billion. Should I interpret Ludvig Aspling so that if there can be an effect of the temporary improvement of the economy for people in the poor areas it will be easier to migrate? Is Ludvig Aspling's conclusion in that case that it is better to keep people on the starvation line so that they are so weak that they cannot move from the continent at all? It is Ludvig Aspling who owes the answer. If you think it is better to help people on the ground, Ludvig Aspling, and if the material standard of living means something to migration, why do you want to cut aid by 11 billion for this year and beyond?
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-41	Madam President, I would like I think Morgan Johansson is not really aware of his own aid budget and our draft budget. Does Morgan Johansson know what proportion of Swedish aid goes to humanitarian aid? No. That's 15%. No more than that goes to humanitarian action. The Swedish democrats are not cutting back on aid. We stick to the objective that the European Union itself has decided, i.e. 0.7% of GDP. We add a little more, namely 0.75, not 0.7, as Morgan Johansson says. As far as development efforts are concerned, Sweden still has the second most generous aid budget throughout the European Union with our draft budget. Only Luxembourg would put forward more than our aid proposal. All EU countries present less. It is a strange starting point to say that it would be cheap.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-44	Madam President, I would like It's amazing to hear at Ludvig Aspling. He says straight up and down that the Swedish Democrats are not cutting back on aid. I have in my hand your draft budget and the figures. There is a minus figure for 2019, namely EUR 11.273 billion, which you are cutting back on aid. 11.172 billion you would cut back on aid for 2020 if you had had your way through. If the Swedish Democrats want to help people on the ground, Ludvig Aspling, why do you want to cut back on aid? I haven't got an answer. Ludvig Aspling mixes humanitarian operations with other aid. Humanitarian action may involve more short-term action, but other aid is, among other things, to help with social reforms, to build a new political structure, to drive forward democratic reforms and the long-term fight against poverty. Should we withdraw as much money from the aid as the Swedish Democrats want, it would of course have a major impact on people in Africa, for example, and that would mean that even more people would feel compelled to migrate. That's where we are. This discussion will probably continue, but I think that until the next debate, Ludvig Aspling will have a little more order in his arguments.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-49	Madam President, I would like Mr Arin has asked me whether I and the government intend to propose new legislation which, in order to reduce the emergence of shadow societies, increases the possibility of placing people in custody. Arin Karapet has also asked me whether I and the Government intend to make proposals for the possibility to search for detention and search accommodation in accordance with what the Migration Agency asked for in the letter of November 2017 and whether we intend to take initiatives to strengthen the security of the rest of the detention facility, for example through the possibility of viewing and ID-control of visitors to the detention centre. I have chosen to respond to the interpellations in a joint response. It is the government's firm view that a long-term sustainable migration policy presupposes that those who, after a legal review for asylum reasons, have received a rejection decision then leave the country as soon as possible. During the years 2014 – 2018, more than 70 000 former asylum seekers left Sweden and returned either to their home country or to another EU country in accordance with the Dublin Regulation. Not everyone who is refused their asylum application is prepared to respect the decision taken. To get more people with removal decisions to return, the government has therefore taken a number of measures in recent years. Among other things, the number of detention places has increased and will be 457 in the spring, which is an increase of 80 percent since 2016. Since July 2018, the Police Authority has been given increased opportunities to check that employers do not hire people who do not have the necessary permits. At the same time, the special contribution that an employer may be obliged to pay was doubled if he has an employee who is not entitled to stay or work in Sweden. It is an important starting point that the person who is in one of the detention centres of the Finnish Immigration Service is usually not detained because of a crime but mainly because the person has no authorisation to reside in the country and must be available in connection with the execution of a expulsion order. According to the legislation, the detention facility must be as similar as possible to the reception units of the Migration Agency, and the operation must be designed in a manner that minimises any interference with the person's privacy and rights. The issue of detention conditions is partly regulated by EU law. It is urgent that we have a well-functioning system of detention. The government is therefore following developments in this area.
i-HLy5XhMZjKhUwrkBo97jrS	Madam President, I would like Thank you to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson for his answer! First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Migration. It can be seen that I am a new member of the Swedish Parliament – you got all my four interpellations at the same time and have saved some day because of my mistake. Perhaps you could buy me a coffee sometime at a time. Forgive me, Madam President! We're not due. To return to what we are here for, Sweden has too few detention places. It is both the former alliance government and the current government that have failed to increase the number. But for the last five years, the Social Democrats have been the governing party. The Finnish Immigration Service and the police themselves have said that Sweden needs to double the number of detention places by 2020. At present, we only have 417 seats. The Minister for Migration says that during the time of the Social Democrats, the number of detention places has increased by 80 per cent. I do not share that statement of reality. There have been about 70 emergency stations, which were converted into permanent places. It was a pity that the moderate-led alliance government did not just change its name. Then you wouldn't have been able to breast-feed yourself over that increase. I'll give you that the repository has expanded with x places. In Ljungbyhed there are about 40 more places. But when you talk to the Migration Agency's employees and managers, they testify that they do not have the toolbox they need. For example, they must not search visitors. They must not require ID cards from visitors. This means that the Migration Agency does not know who is visiting the unit. There have been problems with the introduction of sharp objects – not firearms but weapons-like objects – and drugs. There has even been evidence that there has been prostitution in some of our detention centres. This means that those who work with detention activities have an even greater challenge than the task they have to execute the expulsion of people who are illegally in Sweden. We also have another problem: The northernmost repository in Sweden is located in Gävle. I agree with Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson, Madam President, that the police have been given increased resources and that it is good to be able to do internal control of foreigners. If you are going to work in Sweden, you should do it legally and follow the laws and rules that exist. There I have the same opinion as Morgan Johansson. But it is actually the case, Madam President, that if you do an internal foreigner control at a workplace in Haparanda, for example, and you find that here you have a person who is in Sweden illegally, then that radio car must go round and round back to Gävle. This means that Haparanda, who already has a police shortage, loses a radio car. It goes about 85 km to Gävle and back. That'll be about 170 miles. It creates great worries and problems. This is gravel in the machinery. More than 50 000 people are illegally staying in Sweden. I think that the Minister for Migration should extend one hand to the majority of the Swedish Parliament so that we gain control of Swedish migration policy by putting aside our party names and taking responsibility for Sweden.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-60	Madam President, I would like The last thing I have absolutely no worries about is the other way around. One of the first things I did when I took office as Minister of Migration in 2014 was to invite the bourgeois parties for deliberations. It was already in autumn 2014. At the time, there was no interest in making a broader agreement. It came in 2015 in connection with the crisis, when we managed to get a deal on a large number of points about Swedish migration policy. I hope that we can do something similar now that we are starting a new parliamentary committee to see what the legislation should look like after we have extended the temporary law, which we are now doing with two years. I think it is a good starting point in this discussion to try to find solutions that bring together as many people as possible. It is important for the sake of legitimacy that we uphold the principle that if you have received approval for your asylum application, you may stay but if you are refused you must leave Sweden – primarily voluntarily, of course, but if it is necessary by force. In general, I would like to say that we have had a fairly high rate of return. 70 000 former asylum seekers have left Sweden in the last 5 years. That's about 1,000 a month. It's 30 a day. Sometimes you get the impression from the media that no one leaves Sweden, but it is actually so. Around 1 000 a month are rejected from Sweden after rejection, either to their home countries after to another EU country where they were first registered – the so-called Dublin cases. We're through the refugee crisis now. We have the lowest reception in 13 years thanks to the austerity that we had to implement with ID checks and border controls and the temporary law in 2015. In this connection, we also took steps to increase return. You can no longer receive daily allowance, and adults without children can no longer stay on the accommodation after rejection. We introduced workplace inspections from 1 July last year. The police can now go in and take samples. We have doubled the penalties for employers who employ people who do not have a right of residence in Sweden. For an employer who has 10 employees for a longer period of time, the penalty is now almost 1 million. So we are squeezing employers who want to use this situation to exploit and exploit people. I think that's right. In addition, we have signed return agreements with Afghanistan, among others, so that returns can now also take place there. We have much better cooperation with Morocco than before. Uzbekistan is sometimes mentioned as a country to which returns cannot take place; it is actually wrong. Over the last three years, over 250 people from Uzbekistan have been able to be returned to their country, either voluntarily or under coercion. We shall have a high level of security on detention, but an asylum seeker is not a criminal and should not be treated as such. If there is a suspicion that someone is taking in things that cannot be taken in, they may be searched. You can also have supervised visits, if necessary. Anyone who is in trouble in a detention facility can be referred to custody, and the rules of detention apply. We're going to expand the repository. As I said, we have already made an extension of 80%. In a month's time they will open in Ljungbyhed, and I can also bring a little news to Arin Karapet: It is now clear that the Migration Agency will make a procurement in northern Sweden regarding a new repository in Luleå, which is hoped to be in place next year. So we are gradually increasing the number of detention centres, and that is what is needed.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-69	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Migration Morgan Johansson, for your answer. I do not share the migration minister's factual description of what happened in autumn 2015. It happened under pressure from the Alliance. I do not doubt the Minister for Migration as a Social Democrat, but believe that we have similar views on migration policy. But there is one problem, Madam President. The government consists not only of the Social Democrats, but they are in coalition with the Green Party. If we had had a government consisting only of Social Democratic ministers, I think there would have been speed in the machinery. But right now there's gravel in the machinery. In fact, we have agreed once, and then Sweden's migration policy worked much better. At the time, the majority relations in the Swedish parliament were different, but then the Social Democrats and the Moderates agreed. There was a predictable migration policy that was better than it is today. There were shortcomings then too, but today the shortcomings are even greater, Madam President. The situation is not as good as it is described. I share the view of the Minister for Migration that the media do not always retell things as they are in our parties and in our proposals. But in fact, Madam President, over 50 000 people are illegally staying in Sweden. This reduces public confidence in migration policy. It is true that asylum seekers are not criminals. If they are criminals, they are taken into custody by the police and put in the Prison Service's prisons. We have law enforcement agencies in charge of this. But what we do know is that the Migration Board itself bears witness to the fact that there are too few places. When the police have a priority case, the Migration Agency must release a detained person who for some reason has not cooperated in order to have his expulsion executed. The person is then released at large, under supervision. How do you follow up on this? Yes, the asylum seeker must appear at the Finnish Immigration Service – there is some form of reporting obligation. But this does not hold. This increases the risk of a shadow society. I understand that this is a political conflict. You want to show that you are right and want to win some political points. But I think the Minister for Migration should extend one hand on this issue to the Moderates. I will do everything I can to ensure that my leadership and my group extend a hand to the Minister for Migration so that we get long-term rules and sustainability and get rid of debates like the one we had before, in which I was not involved. I have no problem at all with debating against a social democrat, because the debate is factual, Madam President. We have a party that has paralysed Swedish politics for eight years because seven other parties do not want to deal with this issue. If we deal with the issue, we can discuss other issues. Then we can stand here and discuss LAS or something else instead, where the dividing lines between the Social Democrats and the Moderates are clearer. But in this matter it is a matter of taking responsibility for Sweden. I think the Minister for Migration needs to get the machinery up and running. There is a majority in the Swedish Parliament. Unfortunately, it is not the parties you have concluded the January agreement with. Reach out one hand to the second largest party in Parliament, and we will see to it that a third party joins. Then the others will have to relate to the regulations and proposals we put forward. But don't start the other way around.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-79	Madam President, I would like This is exactly what we are doing. The process right now looks like we are through the refugee crisis, when there were 163 000 people coming to Sweden in one year – 10 000 a week. Then we took action. We introduced ID checks and border controls, and we also introduced the temporary law. We had to deal with it. We could not have a situation that only continued year after year. It wasn't about pressure from the Alliance. Now there is hardly the Alliance anymore, but then, 2015, it was definitely not in migration policy. The situation then was, as is well known, that the Moderates had one opinion and the Center Party another; they were quite far from each other. In fact, when we negotiated the migration settlement in autumn 2015, it was we on the part of the government who often had to try to find compromises between the two parties. We found a solution that could gather everyone, but that's what the situation was then. That's the problem on your side. This was also an acute situation. We had to find solutions to deal with the emergency situation, and we finally did. Although the Moderates could not actually vote in favour of the ID checks when we tabled the proposal here in Parliament but abstained, which was strange. Of course, I would like to see as broad a deal as possible when we have the opportunity again. The situation is much calmer now, and we are extending the temporary law for another two years. Now we have time to sit down from all parties and discuss how we are going to have it in the long term after these two years. That's the attitude I have. If Mr Arin is talking about an outstretched hand, that is, of course, what I also stand for. But I saw on TV the other night that the Moderates went out and said that they might not want to sit on the new parliamentary committee because they were dissatisfied with what I had said about what questions to look at at first. This is not a constructive approach either. A party as large as the Moderates must, of course, be part of an overall solution, and then you cannot stand outside of a process even before it has begun. I hope that Mr Arin will do what he can in his group to ensure that the Moderates do not stay out of the process. At least from our side we are keen to achieve a long-term sustainable policy with as broad a consensus as possible in the Swedish Parliament. That is what we are striving for. As far as detention activities are concerned, the trend is that we now have more detention places than ever before. The government I represent has increased the number of seats by 80% in three years, i.e. since 2016. We'll continue the extension. In a few months there will be a detention in Ljungbyhed, and I said in my previous post that there is now also a procurement in Luleå. I am very well aware of the need for detention in northern Sweden. That's why we commissioned the Migration Agency to see what you can do there. We have nothing north of Gävle, and of course we must have it. But this is not something that is solved in a quick turn. This places high demands on safety, among other things. The repository is locked facilities, which requires that you have suitable premises. It takes some time to build this up, but now, as I said, we are about to do so in northern Sweden as well.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-87	Madam President, I would like I can see that the Minister for Migration is an experienced politician. He can do a little magic with his words. I want him to have credit for that. Maybe I'll be there in 10 to 20 years. I don't have as much experience. But let me get back to the question. We met with the Director General of the Migration Board when he visited the Social Insurance Committee. Mikael Ribbenvik specifically said: I will not increase the number of detention centres unless I get a directive on it through an instruction in a letter of regulation and funding for it. That is to say, we are likely to have as many detention sites – you will only close detention sites in another part of the country and build new ones up in Luleå. Morgan Johansson has said in the paper that you want to wait to give instructions. If the Minister for Migration is misquoted in the media, he will be happy to correct it in his next speech. We don't have enough custody. The police say we have to double the number. There are also shortcomings in our detention centres. In countries such as Denmark, Finland and Norway, the equivalent of the Finnish Immigration Service may visit visitors. According to law, this must not be done in Sweden. Then you have to call the police. I have received this information from the Parliamentary Investigation Service. It's nothing that I've worked together myself. Madam President, I would like Now my time is running out. Let's move on to the next interpellation.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-92	Madam President, I would like It's not my intention to conjure words. I'm trying to be as honest as possible. I am serious that I want to take the two years that we now have at our disposal when we extend the temporary law to try to find a solution that is sustainable in the long term and also has as broad an agreement as possible in Parliament. I hope the Moderates want to be part of that process. That is what I meant when I said that it is important that the Moderates do not stand outside it even before it has begun. Arin Karapet quotes Mikael Ribbenvik and the Migration Board. As it is now, we have a regulatory letter that we decided on during the period when we were a transitional government. All the regulatory letters that we decided as a transitional government are washed from a political point of view. A transitional government must not do otherwise. It should only devote itself to keeping the state apparatus going and not point out any particular direction. That is why today there is nothing in the regulation letter on the development of detention, but we are working on new regulatory letters. Now that we are back in government, we will issue new regulatory letters to all the authorities and point out the direction. The Finnish Immigration Service will then of course be instructed to continue to expand the number of detention places in the way they have done. That is partly why we now see it coming. I know that Parliament has also allocated special funds for detention places, and that money should of course be used to extend the detention facility in the way that Parliament has said. That is why it does not appear in the regulatory letter today, but new regulatory letters will soon be sent to all our authorities.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-96	Madam President, I would like Arin Karapet has asked me how I and the government ensure that Sweden has the strict and long-term sustainable migration policy that Sweden needs, given, among other things, the integration problems. He has also asked me how I and the government took into account Sweden's need for a humane, tight and legally secure migration policy when implementing the High School Act. I have chosen to respond to the interpellations in a context. Already during the previous term of office, the government took a wide range of measures aimed at maintaining an orderly, humane, legally secure and sustainable migration policy. In order to reduce the number of asylum seekers to Sweden after autumn 2015, a temporary strengthening of the Swedish regulatory framework was carried out within the framework of EU law and international conventions. Significantly fewer people are currently applying for asylum in Sweden compared to 2015. Sweden's share of the total number of asylum seekers in the EU has also decreased significantly. However, we still see an uneven distribution of asylum seekers among EU Member States. The government is therefore working to put order in place in the EU to ensure a more even distribution. More Member States need to take greater responsibility for people on the run. The right to seek asylum shall be protected. In addition, a number of measures have been taken to achieve a more effective return. Among other things, more detention places have been set up, the Police Authority has been given more tools to enforce expulsion decisions and more funds have been allocated to the authorities' work on return. Overall, more than 70 00 0 persons have returned between 2014 and 2018. Legislative changes have been made to allow for the implementation of age assessments earlier in the asylum process. As late as 7 February, the government decided to continue border control at internal borders for a further three months. The most important thing for integration is the ability to make a living through your own work. The government has implemented the necessary reforms to reduce time to work. These are structurally fundamental reforms such as the residence law which is a tool for controlling the reception of new arrivals, and a new regulatory framework for the establishment of new arrivals, which means clearer requirements for the individual. It is also about measures that involve better start-up efforts and strengthened pathways to jobs. A recent OECD study shows that Sweden succeeds better than many other countries in getting newly arrived women to work. The time for newcomers to enter the labour market is decreasing and points to a much shorter start-up period than before. Employment for both foreign and domestic births has increased sharply in recent years. The number of foreign born workers is over 1 million. This means that almost one in five people working in Sweden was born abroad. Much has already been done, but further reform work is also needed during this term of office. The January agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party states that the temporary law is to be extended by two years. At the same time, the right to family reunification for alternative beneficiaries is reintroduced. Restored family reunification is a humanitarian desire and will facilitate integration. In the course of the extension, a parliamentary committee shall be set up to settle the future migration policy. The Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals agree to push for the introduction of a new humanitarian protection base in the investigation. Work is already under way in the Government Office to launch this committee as soon as possible. The investigation will provide the opportunity for parliamentary parties to contribute to a migration policy that has broad parliamentary support and should be sustainable over time. As regards the rules on new residence permits for upper secondary school studies, I would like to emphasise that this was a temporary measure aimed at a limited group of individuals. The group was made up of unaccompanied young people who had been affected by very long processing times before they received a rejection of their applications.
i-54J4ondLKYoLyZ6w7ZAyds	Madam President, I would like Thanks again to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson! Let me start with what it looks like in Sweden. We've had a high migration rate for the last 10, 20, 30 years. In the last few years, we've had the highest peaks. What we are seeing today is that children of foreign born, that is, people who look like me or have my background, usually do not have the same conditions in Sweden. We do not have the Swedish language as our mother tongue. We don't have that toolbox when we're in school. If we are lucky, we have come to Sweden at an early age and received a full primary education in Sweden. What we are seeing today in Sweden is an integration that has not succeeded. Just admit: all parties are responsible for this. There are schools where every other student with a foreign background – we can take Gothenburg as an example – goes out with incomplete grades. To say that this is not linked to the migration policy we have had would be wrong. We have to admit that we have integration problems. We have failed in integration. We haven't made demands from day one. We have a benefit system that has passedivated people in exclusion because we have not had requirements for self-sufficiency. To return to what migration policy looks like today, I understand that the Social Democrats are satisfied with the January agreement. They're still in government. They succeeded in what they are best at: taking power. But they also made a compromise, and that was opening up to family reunification without demands for support. It is given a three-month respite. Relationship and family reunification are not wrong in themselves. I understand that people want to join their family. It's perfectly normal. It would be abnormal if they didn't want to be reunited with their family. But there must also be demands for self-sufficiency, and this is the criticism of the Moderates: There is no clear writing about self-sufficiency. We know that for each asylum seeker one more person is added. It can be said that the number of asylum seekers is at a low level, the lowest in 13 years, but it is now being opened up again to increase the number of asylum seekers. Madam President, I would like The reason why the Moderates have been hard on the Minister for Migration to possibly not be in the agreement, although we have not yet said no, is that we think it is weak. This applies to the conditions to be set before we enter into a negotiation. We want clear answers from the Social Democrats. Should temporary residence permits be the main rule? Should there be clear wording and requirements for self-sufficiency? Should there be a requirement for language skills to qualify for a permanent residence permit and, at another level, for Swedish citizenship? If we are to have successful integration and people are to become full citizens, they must do their duty. Then, when they have done so, they will have their rights satisfied. Madam President, I would like That is a great many fine words from the Minister for Migration, but again: the Social Democrats fumbled away the migration policy for power. I think that the Minister for Migration should take responsibility for Sweden and put away party politics.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-113	Madam President, I would like We shall have a long-term sustainable policy with broad parliamentary support. Now we have the opportunity to sit down between the parties and discuss what such a solution should look like. But it is based on the fact that the parties actually come to the negotiating table. You can have the attitude that you do not like the agenda and therefore do not even want to come to the meeting. Then you stand out of the process. Thus parties who at some point wish to carry the government power do not usually act, but parties of the Moderate character usually come to the negotiating table and discuss. Then we may not get along, and then there will be no agreement. I do not know whether that will be the case, but one must at least come to the negotiating table. If you don't, you stand outside. That is why I was a little concerned when I watched television the other day that it was considered not even getting on the committee, even though the directives were not even written. We're processing them right now. It seems that at least Mr Arin is on the line that one must at least sit down and negotiate. That's what we do. This is how Sweden is governed and has been governed for many years: We sit down, discuss and try to compromise. This applies to our party, and it must apply to all parties. The Social Democrats are prepared to negotiate in this way, but this requires that all parties be prepared to come to the table. Should we learn something from what happened in 2015? Yeah, I think we should. How did we get there? I remember it very well. The Moderates have had a policy that went a little bit back and forth, to say the least. I know what you went to elections in 2014, Arin Karapet. We all know that – we remember. Your policy on migration was: Open your hearts! It was Fredrik Reinfeldt's signal that we should continue to have the EU's most generous refugee policy. That's one of them. The second thing that the Moderates went to elections on was that we would receive many refugees but that it was Social Democratic municipalities that would do so. Moderate municipalities would have to do nothing. You opposed a settlement law in stone, i.e. a law of instruction, in which all municipalities would take responsibility. You didn't want Vellinge to have to accept refugees. You did not want Täby, Lidingö and the other moderate municipalities to have to accept anyone, but you opposed it. In other words, a giant-generous refugee policy at national level, but then the moderate municipalities would be relieved of responsibility. It was Malmö, Botkyrka, Södertälje and other Social Democratic municipalities that would take all responsibility. That was moderate politics. That's what I inherited in 2014 when I took office. It was not sustainable, Madam President, in any way. Eventually, this led to the crisis in 2015. We then took the necessary measures: border controls, identification checks and the temporary law. We also managed to reach an agreement with the bourgeois parties. It was a broad migration agreement where perhaps the most important point, in my view, was precisely the instruction law, which says that all municipalities must be prepared to take responsibility. It was very far away, but eventually it came in place too. We have integration problems in Sweden, but you should not dress in sacks and ashes for that. Note how employment among foreign-born people has increased and how more than 1 million foreign-born people now work in Sweden! 20 per cent of all persons employed in health care, care for the elderly, industry and trade were born abroad. Sweden would not have made it without all the people who work in these sectors, and I think this should also be carried with it. We have had a good development in terms of migration in terms of the employment component, and we must maintain that.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-120	Madam President, I would like Let's back the band back to 2015. Border controls were introduced late in autumn, almost in winter. The refugee crisis began at the end of the summer. It took the Minister for Migration and his friends in the Social Democrats a long time to act, a very long time. The reason is that they're in government with the Green Party. If we had had a one-party government consisting only of the Social Democrats, I think the Minister for Migration would have been more capable of action, but that was not the reality. It doesn't today either. We know it'll be a cabinet question. The same is true of concessions to the High School Act. We have still not seen the consequences of this law. It hasn't been 13 months. When you are out meeting young people or people who work with young people who have been okay according to the High School Act, you hear that they live in uncertainty. They believe that if they only go to school they will qualify for a residence permit and stay in Sweden. I'm not going to point out to that group that they're the problem. My criticism is about the system we have and how we deal with migration policy. I don't want to put groups against groups. I don't want to do that. This is the kind of debate we have today in Sweden, Madam President. And the reason we have such a debate is that politics is unable to deal with the problem. The problem is, once again, that we have had a high level of migration to Sweden. Sweden has assumed its humanitarian responsibility. We will continue to assume our responsibilities, but we cannot take the same responsibility. It is now up to other countries in the world around us to take their responsibilities. We have an even greater task: to integrate those who have come to Sweden. Yes, Madam President, employment has increased. We're in the middle of a boom, but soon we're in a recession. It's coming-- it's standing around the corner sneaking up. But what are the unemployment rates? For the first time, the number of unemployed people born abroad is higher than that of the natives. Then integration has not been successful. Again: Parts of the responsibility lie with former bourgeois governments, but the present responsibility lies with the party that bears the government power – the Social Democrats. I don't want a discussion about who did what five ten years ago. We live here and now. The only thing we can influence is our everyday life and tomorrow. The Minister of Migration has a choice. How does the Minister of Migration want to be told in history? The Minister of Migration has the opportunity to write his own history in the future. Does he want to be remembered as a Social Democratic Minister of Migration who did not take his responsibility and put Sweden in a position of uncertainty in migration policy, or does he want to be remembered as the Minister of Migration who actually took responsibility for Sweden? Does he want to sit down with the second largest party in the Swedish parliament, where you don't have such a tight stance? The Minister of Migration has only invited the Moderates to some sort of negotiation and said something: Welcome to a coffee rope and we will agree on something. That is why we have rejected it. But if the Minister of Migration really wants to take responsibility, we'll come to the negotiating table.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-126	Madam President, I would like I hope you haven't said no. Mr Arin said in a previous speech that you had not quite made up your mind yet. I hope that you, like the other parties in the Swedish Parliament, will, I assume, participate in the parliamentary committee that we will now set up. Then it is important to say that you are prepared to be in a conversation with all parties. What the Moderates seem to be after is that the Centers, Liberals and the Green Party should be excluded from these talks and that the Social Democrats and the Moderates should sit and talk about this. I can say it won't work. I am seeking as broad a deal as possible, and then all parties must be prepared to sit down and discuss this. There can be no bilateral agreement between the Social Democrats and the Moderates. Then I do not think it will be sustainable in the long term either. We must assume that everyone is sitting at the table from the start discussing the question after question. Then it is not certain that we will come to an agreement. Some parties will say that they do not want to be involved in one thing, and other parties will say that they can do this if they get another thing. In this way we must compromise. That's how it works. But the important thing I think is that a large and important party in the Swedish Parliament does not stand aside from a negotiation process that takes place when we start this parliamentary committee. The Moderates don't usually do that. The Moderates tend to be a party that is always prepared to enter into a negotiation process and at best also be part of the solution. I hope that's the way it is now. Of course, the writing of the story can be changed. Mr Arin thinks that it took too long for us to introduce border controls. We introduced them on 12 November 2015. We should be grateful that it was not an alliance government then, as there would probably not have been any border controls at all. So great were the locks in that constellation. When it came to ID controls, which was another important part of this, which were done on the Danish side by those who wanted to go to Sweden over the Öresund Bridge, we got a new legislation in place on 4 January. But I never forget that when I came here to Parliament with this legislation, the Moderates did not manage to vote for it, even though they had first said they were in favour of it. Then there were some who lobbied that this would cause so much trouble in Skåne and in connection with the integration between Skåne and Denmark. That's why they wanted to stand outside. Tobias Billström wrote an article saying that this would be devastating for integration in Skåne. It ended with the Moderates abstaining on the ID controls. We got through the ID checks anyway, and I think it was absolutely crucial. If we hadn't got this right, our entire asylum system would have collapsed in 2016. There were at this time a couple of hundred thousand people in Germany who were not registered and who could at any time move up towards Sweden in a situation where we had already received about 150 000 people. The ID checks were therefore very important. As far as the issue of family reunification is concerned, I think that now that we are in a situation where we have normalised the situation with the minimum reception of 13 years and when we can, we must create a system in which we allow for more of humanity than we might have been able to cope with in the past and ensure that these family reunifications are carried out. It is therefore 90 percent women and children, who today often find themselves in refugee camps, who have the opportunity to reunite with their husband and with their father here in Sweden. In fact, I believe that it is also important for integration. We estimate that for three years it is a group of approximately 8,000 individuals. We can actually do that. I think it strengthens integration as well.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-134	Madam President, I would like If you remember the press conference that Åsa Romson held, you get a different picture than the one described by the Minister for Migration in this Chamber. It would have been better and more effective if we had had a common border control with our neighbour Denmark towards the German border. We had reduced the costs, we had coordinated much better and it would have been much more effective. The problem was not between Denmark and Sweden, but at Denmark's border with Germany. Let us look again at what it is like in Sweden today. We have a major integration debt. The Moderates do not say no to family reunification. We say there should be demands for self-sufficiency. When families are reunited, children reunited with their parents must also have the best possible integration with the right tools. I grew up with a single mother who was passed on to the benefit system myself. On paper maybe it looked nice and that it was a family that had succeeded in Sweden. But it wasn't a simple upbringing. Once you've migrated, you're done with it. The next step in life is to integrate. We know about integration in Sweden. We are the worst country in Europe in terms of integration. We can see that. The Minister for Migration disagrees with me. But we have a very large transfer system that people are hidden in. But, once again, we want to tackle the integration debt in Sweden, we need to limit immigration. It must become stricter. If the Minister for Migration is serious about agreeing with the Moderates and the other parties, make a proposal for negotiations so that you can anticipate where you are going.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-138	Madam President, I would like Normally, we conduct such negotiations in such a way that we create a platform and, in this case, a parliamentary committee in which all parties are involved and have the opportunity to discuss questions. Then you see if it can be agreed. I hope, as I said, that the Moderates want to be part of this solution. That's what we do. That's also how the Moderates act. They don't usually stand out of such processes. I hope they won't do it this time either. As far as integration is concerned, we have a supply requirement in place. We've had that for a long time. Mr Arin says that we are the worst country in Europe on integration. Then I refer to a study by the OECD on bringing foreign-born women into the labour market. According to it, it's the other way around. We are one of the best countries in our world at that very moment. This is linked to the fact that we have a very high overall employment rate. If Mr Arin can show any country that has a higher proportion of foreign born in work than we have, I would be happy to take that discussion. However, since we have so many men and women overall of the workforce who are also in work, I would like to say that we are in very good shape. I have said that today we have about 1 million foreign born who work in industry, in trade, in welfare and so on, and Sweden would not have made it without them. I believe that the number of foreign-born workers increased by almost 60 000 in just one year and thus came over this million. In addition, in recent years we have halved the start-up period. In the past, we talked about the fact that it would take eight or nine years for a newcomer to enter the labour market. Today we are down to four-five years because of the pressure we have had on the labour market overall. As I said, there is much more to be done. But we're not going to dress in sacks and ashes for that matter. Thank you for a good debate.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-142	Madam President, I would like Hans Wallmark has asked me what concrete threats to free media and an independent judiciary have been noted by the government and how these have been fought through the 73-point programme and that a number of parties have released Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister. A prosperous democracy requires both independent courts and free media, not least in times of political turbulence. In many parts of Europe, efforts are now being made to increase political governance over the administration of justice and independent journalism. There have also been political statements in Sweden that can be interpreted as a desire to restrict media freedom. The development in our environment means that we have every reason to work proactively with our own regulation. As part of this work, the Government has, among other things, commissioned the 2018 Press and Freedom of Expression Committee to investigate whether the independence of public services is sufficiently guaranteed in relation to the state. However, further steps may need to be taken to further improve the conditions for independent media and strengthen the independence of the courts. Part of the 73 points of the January Agreement are aimed at this very point. In this way, we stand up for a society of free media and independent courts.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-145	Madam President, I would like Why is Minister of Justice, Migration and Democracy Morgan Johansson here? Yes, he does so because when I asked my interpellation, which originated in a statement made by Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, they referred to democracy issues being dealt with by Minister Morgan Johansson. For this reason, therefore, I could not put my interpellation to the Prime Minister, but it is Morgan Johansson who is allowed to represent the government in this debate on democracy. That is a very correct response from Minister Johansson, Madam President. However, not everything has been quite correct in its foreplay. Above all, I read, like many others, Svenska Dagbladet on February 8, and we were probably quite many in Sweden who bounced to. In fact, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven – Morgan Johansson's head of government and Head of Government – said this: ..................................................... Other colleagues of Morgan Johansson have said that open democracy is at stake, and in their reply, Madam President, Morgan Johansson said: ..................................................... For the Social Democrats, the 73-point programme is a way of ensuring parliamentary support in order to continue as a minority government. The other options that have existed in 2018 and winter 2019 in terms of government formation have mainly meant that the Moderates have offered to form a government with themselves and either an additional party or two or three additional parties, in order to conduct a bourgeois policy on the basis of the Alliance. That is why I must ask the question, Madam President: in what way do the government and its representatives in this House today, Morgan Johansson, think that such a government – made up of the Moderates, of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, of the Moderates and Christian Democrats and the Center Party or of the Moderates and Christian Democrats and the Liberals – would have been a threat to liberal democracy? The truth is, Madam President, that most of the parties in this House are probably behind the fact that a prosperous democracy presupposes both independent courts and free media. Therefore, my appeal to Morgan Johansson – and it is also a hope – is that he will take the following message with him to his circle of other government representatives, and ultimately to the Swedish Prime Minister: Calm down! Lower your tone. Do not use expressions that threaten liberal democracy, when you intend to criticise the main opposition party!
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-151	Madam President, I would like I know Hans Wallmark for almost 30 years, I think it is. When Hans Wallmark was political editor-in-chief of NST, I was a young SSU in Ängelholm, and since then we have had a lot to do with each other – not least the other year, when it came to armaments export issues. Hans Wallmark is a very honorable person. I do not doubt him at all with regard to the basic principles of democracy. I'd love to have said that. I do not doubt him for one second in this regard. My problem, Madam President, is that I doubt the Moderates as a party in terms of the party's ability to resist the pressure of authoritarian forces in the long run once one has put oneself in a blackmail situation against them. Neither am I alone, but so are the Centers and Liberals. That's why the Centre Party and the Liberals voted against Kristersson because they understood that in that case we would have an M-KD government under the heel of SD. That is what we would have had, because the red-green parties are larger than the alliance parties here in Parliament. An M-KD government had ended up in a blackmail situation against the Swedish Democrats. This was understood by the Swedish Democrats, which is why they wanted Kristersson. But even the Centers and Liberals understood it, so they did what they did. I am concerned that such a government would have been forced to pursue a policy that had gone further and further on the right and leaned more and more towards the authoritarian direction. One can say that I, the Center, the Liberals and other parties only see ghosts and that it is only free fantasies, but I mean it is not. It is enough to look at Denmark, Madam President. There is exactly this situation: a right-wing government that has put itself in a blackmail situation against the Danish People's Party, which is therefore the equivalent of the Swedish democrats. Dansk Folkeparti has been campaigning against Danish public service for a very long time. The party has wanted to cut down on Denmark's Radio and control the content. Now the Danish government sat down in a blackmail situation against Dansk Folkepartiet, and last year the Danish Folkepartie decided to really push and get through its proposals. The result was that Denmark's Moderates turned to that point, and what was it then? Well, there were cuts on Denmark's Radio by 20%. 400 journalists are to be dismissed, three television channels are to be closed and three radio channels are to be closed. Denmark's Radio shall be based on Christianity as part of the values of its operations. You can no longer publish in-depth and analytical texts. Digital channels should no longer be allowed to broadcast foreign films. Such was the deal in Denmark. Here in Sweden we have had similar notes from the Swedish Democrats. I saw that when P3 ran with Jimmie Åkesson a few years ago Jimmie Åkesson went out and said that one should close P3. We can laugh a little about that, but if the Swedish Democrats really had the opportunity to put strength behind the words, we would not laugh. Madam President, I would like I do not, therefore, doubt Hans Wallmark for one thing, but I doubt the ability of the Moderates to resist such forces in the long run once they have put themselves in a blackmail situation. I think we have a good reason for that.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-158	Madam President, I would like Let me begin with the long friendship that Morgan Johansson and I have had. It is quite right that he says, Madam President, and that means that I am still on leave of absence from my work as a journalist because for a number of years I have been working in this House. This makes it natural for me and my party, unlike some Social Democrats, to constantly remind in debates that freedom of the press and the right to publish and publish books are universal. That is why names such as Gui Minhai and Dawit Isaak deserve to be said in this House also in connection with the foreign declaration. Once upon a time, I have also contracted Morgan Johansson as a columnist, and after each published column I had to devote myself to hotline for angry readers who called in and had views on the young radical's lyrics. Madam President, I would like When Morgan Johansson, as a representative of the government, expresses public distrust of Sweden's largest opposition party and believes that it would not be able to cope with border control, it is actually a far deeper statement than Morgan Johansson and his government might imagine. On the one hand, various debates demand that we reach agreement. There is talk of consensus, and there is an invitation to talk. On the other hand, attempts are being made to express this mistrust. The listener of Morgan Johansson's previous speech heard that he was mainly concerned with one party – the Swedish Democrats – when he criticized another party: the Moderates. There is no evidence whatsoever or any evidence whatsoever of Morgan Johansson's thesis that a bourgeois government consisting of one, two, three or four parties – based on bourgeois politics, which was ultimately what the Alliance went to elections on – would check with this and that it would not take the consequences if it were to end up in what Morgan Johansson describes as a blackmail situation. The problem, Madam President, is that Morgan Johansson's government – the 73-point programme government – is sitting on the mercy of a left-wing party that I would like to argue is democratically dual in its history. Madam President, I would like I would really like to repeat what I said a few minutes ago: calm down! Lower your tone! Think through exactly what you are saying, because it has consequences for the political discussion in Sweden as long as the 73-point programme government remains in place. Finally, Madam President, Morgan Johansson and I represent different parts of Skåne, not only politically but also locally. Denmark is, of course, a very interesting example. It will be even more interesting, Madam President, to see how, after the spring elections, the Danish Social Democrats will relate to the Danish People's Party. I share Morgan Johansson's view that things are happening in Denmark, which I would describe as politically unhealthy in several areas. There are also things that are very good in Denmark. I assume that Morgan Johansson has put this kind of argument to her fellow Minister for Democracy in Copenhagen.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-167	Madam President, I would like As I said, I – or the Social Democracy – am not alone in feeling a concern about what can happen if you put yourself in an addiction or blackmail situation in relation to a party like the Swedish Democrats. That is exactly why the Center and Liberals voted against Kristersson. It was clearly stated from this speaker's seat by both leaders of these two parties that they did not want to give Kristersson the Prime Minister's mission for the simple reason that such a government had become directly dependent on the Swedish Democrats and put itself in a blackmail situation. This assessment is therefore not the only one if – on the contrary, this was the very reason why there was instead a middle-level interaction between the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Centre Party and the Liberals. This was because the Centre Party and the Liberals felt these concerns. I share this concern and I am supported by this view when I look at the situation in the rest of Europe. I took Denmark as an example, because there is a clear parallel. It will be such a result when a party has the opportunity to really push and say: and if you do not do as we say with Denmark's Radio, you will not be allowed to sit there. In this way, public service is severely reduced, its mission is narrowed down and its content is viewed. It is this development that I absolutely do not want to see in Sweden. It is also the journalist in me who is speaking, I would say, as is the case for Hans Wallmark. I certainly do not want to see such a development in Sweden, but we must protect the free and independent press and the media in general. I mean – and we can take other examples – that in Europe today there is an attraction to the fact that it is the right-wing or right-wing forces that threaten the basic values of democracy in different ways. We can talk about Poland and about Hungary, two countries that have long been ruled by right-wing parties. There has also been an effort to take control of their state-owned media in various ways – their public service. Reporters without borders make an annual assessment of the freedom of the press called the freedom of the press index. Poland has collapsed with 40 placements in three years on that list and is now in place 58. In Hungary, too, we see increased control of public services. The news agency there is described as a distinct government loyal. They have also been involved in the campaign that we have seen against industrialist George Soros. It's not healthy. If we then look at the judiciary, we see similar developments, which in many ways are deeply worrying. In Poland, the Minister of Justice is now also the Prosecutor General, which means that you have full insight into various concrete criminal investigations. Poland has also reduced the retirement age of judges in the Supreme Court. The European Commission has responded to these developments by opening an Article 7 procedure, as it believes that there is a clear risk of fundamental democratic values being seriously ignored. We have the same situation in Hungary, with disputes over appointments of judges and with a new administrative court that can be steered more clearly from Parliament. Madam President, I would like The question of resisting the right-wing and authoritarian forces in Europe is one of the most important political tasks of our time.
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-179	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the European tour he has given us. Let me just tour it back. I fully share the assessment with regard to Poland. I can also do this because the Moderates' sister party is the largest opposition party in Poland, just as the Moderates are in Sweden. As far as Hungary is concerned, there is no doubt that we are also concerned about developments. That is also why we are marking towards Fidesz. On the other hand, it is interesting, Madam President, that when Morgan Johansson goes out and looks at the European map, he forgets a country like Romania, where the Social Democrats rule with a liberal party and are now engaged in repealing corruption laws. I think we all have a little tuxedo to wash in the European family. We're trying to do it on our side. Madam President, I would like When the Social Democratic Party says that open democracy is at stake when the Moderates are willing to form a government with one, two, three or four other bourgeois parties and when one says that with the January Agreement – that is, the 73-point programme – one has stood up for a society with free media and an independent judiciary one digs a fairly deep ditch streak between a government that in some contexts claims to be a cooperative government and the largest opposition party. That is why, Madam President, there is reason to end this interpellation debate by repeating once again the call to the government, represented here by Morgan Johansson: Calm down! Lower your tone! Know what you're saying!
i-667f55bbfa76c2bb-186	Madam President, I would like I am quite calm, but at the same time I am quite concerned about some political forces that are in motion. We may well in just a few months have a situation in which the right-wing nationalist forces have been able to emerge further in Europe. After all, there is before us a European election – a parliamentary elections. Polarization may then increase further. These forces can get wind in the sails and will then try to advance their positions in many places, which will mean, among other things, that these forces will in different ways attack the media and the judiciary in exactly the way we have seen. This is what I want to curb at all costs. I believe that the conflict that we are now seeing in Europe, where the right-wing forces are trying to advance positions, is one of the most important issues of our time and that it is currently overshadowing most of the other things in politics. The concern I feel is due to what the situation is like in Sweden, and I am, once again, not alone about it. There was a reason why Ulf Kristersson did not receive a mandate as Prime Minister. Of course, we voted against him, but also against the Centre Party and the Liberals, who felt exactly the same concern as we felt about what might happen. Looking at the rest of the European Union, countries such as Denmark, Poland and Hungary, I believe that there is a reason for this. Of course, this does not mean that I fundamentally doubt the democratic intentions of the Moderates. But what I am concerned about is what will happen in the longer term when one is put into a blackmail situation by these authoritarian forces. I hope that we continue to work well together in this Parliament across party boundaries and that the Moderates will be part of it.
