i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-0	Mr President, I would like to We have asked for this debate on behalf of Mr Odererna, because we are very concerned about those people who have been deemed to be a threat to national security and are to be expelled but whose expulsion has not been possible. I am absolutely sure that this is an issue that touches and upsets a great many people in our country, who ask the question: how can this be done? And perhaps even more important is the question: How should this situation be handled? This applies both to the people we have been able to read about in the media recently and whether this might be repeated in the future. I hope that this debate will be an opportunity to discuss these issues and, above all, to explain to the various parties how they want to deal with them. I believe that what the Swedish people are expecting right now are concrete solutions to a very serious problem.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-2	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by welcoming the Moderates' initiative for a debate on this complex but very important issue. Initially, I can state that the Government has decided to expel six people whom we have considered to be a security threat to Sweden. We are now working to eliminate enforcement barriers. At the same time, an investigation is working on proposals to tighten up the law on special foreigner control. I think we agree in this House that this is the right way to go. But let me zoom something out, too. Counter-terrorism is a very high priority for the government, and efforts to prevent, prevent and complicate terrorism and radicalisation are carried out with great determination. Since the government took office, we have implemented some thirty measures against terrorism, concluded two broad agreements with the opposition and carried out extensive financial efforts on the judiciary, in particular the Security Service and the Police Authority. The government has criminalised terrorist travel and made it punishable to finance a terrorist or terrorist organisation. By the end of the week, proposals were made for a new terrorist crime law that is proposed to mean both more stringent penalties and more acts to be defined as terrorist offences. Sweden has never had such tough terrorist legislation as it is today. The Special Alien Control Act is a valuable tool for dealing with foreigners who are deemed to pose security threats to Sweden. Ultimately, it is about potential terrorists and persons who pose a threat to national security being prevented from entering or remaining in Sweden. According to the Migration Court of Appeal, in the high-profile cases where the government recently ruled on expulsion, there are obstacles to enforcement when the court considers that the persons are at risk of being subjected to torture or other inhuman or degrading treatment. The government, as everyone knows, is bound by the judgment of the Migration Court of Appeal on obstacles to enforcement. Such a decision cannot be ignored or stressed out. Sweden is a rule of law and, like like like-minded states, we are bound by our international commitments to human rights also in the fight against terrorism and other anti-democratic forces. Therefore, European democracies do not execute expulsion decisions if people are at risk of torture or inhumane treatment. Human rights are universal and apply to everyone, including the people we dislike the most. Having said that, it is of the utmost importance that the Security Service should follow people in our country who pose a security threat and that they should be expelled whenever possible. I understand that we agree to tighten the LSU legislation in order to provide the Security Service with the tools it needs. I also understand that there is support in this House for the government's decision to expel people who are deemed to be security threats and to work to remove the barriers to expulsion.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-10	Mr President, I would like to As I said at the beginning, we Moderates are very concerned about the situation. Six persons who are deemed by the Security Service to pose a threat to national security have been sentenced to expulsion, but the expulsion cannot be carried out, with the result that these people today move relatively freely in our society. It is something that I, as a moderate, cannot accept that we are not trying to change. The situation has upset many people. It has also been pointed out from researchers that such a situation risks increasing the risk of both radicalisation and further terrorist acts. We have already had two terrorist attacks in Sweden. We have to do everything in our power to stop more happening. Here, from the Moderates' side, we have pointed out several things that can be done. It is a question of changing the legislation on special foreign control. We need a system of diplomatic guarantees to be able to execute expulsions, just as there is in other countries. We need to tighten up anti-terrorism legislation. In fact, several of the things we agreed on in 2015 and 2017 have not yet been implemented, in November 2019. There is also reason to go further, I mean. For example, it is a mystery to me why in Sweden a nationality cannot be revoked for a person who has dual citizenship in the case of a terrorist offence. We now see that legislation being rolled out in several other countries, both bourgeois and social-democratically governed: Norway, Finland, Denmark and Germany. This should also happen in Sweden, not least in view of the fact that we are one of the countries in Europe that per capita have had the most IS passengers. Here the problems are great, and this justifies more stringent legislation. We also need to do things here and now. The government should take an impression and present an additional amending budget with substantially increased appropriations to the Security Service. We have pointed out from the Moderates that over SEK 100 million could be given to the Swedish Security Service in order to increase the possibilities to guard threats to national security and also to strengthen investigation capabilities. That would be a welcome addition to dealing with the problems we are seeing right now. The question I have for the government and Mikael Damberg is: What is the government's plan to deal with this? I think we fully agree that this is unacceptable, but it is not enough to say that things are unacceptable, but it also requires political action and concrete proposals. I hope to hear just such things in this debate today, because can the government not just watch these people move out in society? That can't be good politics, can it?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-16	Mr President, I would like to We are here to debate the law on special foreign control. In 2010, the Swedish Democrats entered the Swedish Parliament. It was also the first year that the Swedish democrats raised a motion to amend the law on special foreign control in order to overcome the shortcomings on which we today seem to agree. You other parties have voted against all the changes that the Swedish Democrats have proposed – year after year – on the grounds that the law has been balanced as it is. And in the lines that have taken place between the Swedish Democrats and the socialist government, it has been said: The law does not need to be changed, for there has not been a problem yet. That is exactly the reasoning of the Red Green Government. You don't want to change anything even though there are obvious flaws. You don't want to change anything until something very serious has happened in our country. You do not want to change anything until there has been a terrorist attack, until someone has been murdered, until blasts and shootings have taken place and until mothers have been murdered on the street. Then the power of action comes from the government. The Swedish Democrats largely reject the socialist government as well as the bourgeois opposition. Now we have a special debate on this subject. Many are concerned that we have all these extremists in our country. Let me make one thing clear: it is not the Swedish Democrats who have let the extremists into our country. If it had been up to us in this country, they wouldn't be here at all. It is you others who have had a political orientation in which you have welcomed people without control and without any requirement whatsoever, and distributed citizenship to the right and left. Now we have foreigners who are here and who are inciting to the way we live, to our country and to our democracy. We in Sweden have very poor opportunities to protect ourselves from the threat they pose. This debt rests heavily on you other parties that have always voted against the Swedish Democrats' proposal to amend the law on special foreign control. In this debate we need to discuss solutions for how we move forward. The Swedish Democrats have been clear. We have no sympathy for these people. We want to use detention to protect Sweden against terrorist threats. We want to be able to ensure that those who pose a terrorist threat do not walk freely on our streets until they are on a plane home to their home countries. We want to use this opportunity for detention. The question I am going to put to you other parties in this debate is: how do you want to protect Sweden from the foreigners whom you have admitted, which are today a terrorist threat and which today are walking freely on our streets? I think that question is very relevant.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-22	Mr President, I would like to The social system that we have taken for granted for so long is under pressure. It is currently under attack from several quarters. Among other things, people with completely different values about how to build good society, people who want to lean a judicial system against spiritual beliefs, dogmatic and anti-democratic, rather than against the rule of law tradition that built our democracy and the democracies of our closest allies strong and legally secure. There are forces that do not want Sweden well, who do not want Sweden's citizens or our rights system well and who think that we who defend the human rights that go with each individual, no matter who she is and no matter what she has done, are wrong. You just have to think what you want. But when one's opinion and thinking are changed into anti-democratic methods, calls for violence or support for terror sects, the limit is the openness of our society. Everyone is free to hold a debate and make their voice heard. But no one is free to threaten, call for violence or commit themselves or contribute to acts of violence. Such acts are punishable, and more will be punishable by new legislation under way. But even for those who have not yet committed such acts, there is a limit to the patience of open society. Those who pose a threat to national security and to open society have no obvious right to remain in our country if they are not citizens. The signal should be clear: Accept the fundamental rights system on which our democracy is based or live elsewhere! As with any other exercise of authority, these processes must be dealt with with with high demands for the rule of law, for exactly the same reasons that the rule of law must be defended against the anti-democratic forces that wish to harm our society. Just a short time ago, there was hardly any reason to spend time and energy defending the rule of law and the rule of law. They were obvious to the vast majority. But that has changed in a short time. With new methods and renewed strength, violent extremism has become a threat that more and more people are affected by. It may have different rationalizing excuses, but it matters less. The forces seeking to divide societies with violence and other anti-democratic methods must be combated. And that battle must be fought with the means of the rule of law. Otherwise, the enemies of the rule of law have won.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-30	Mr President, I would like to People who pose a threat to national security are a threat to everyone's freedom and to the security we all have a right to know. In cases where they commit crimes, they shall be punished. Otherwise, they should know that the state has them under control. The law of special foreigner control is special and not entirely unproblematic. We in the Left Party have been critical since the law was introduced. Among other things, we have raised issues of legal certainty. This is particularly true of the difficulty with the evidence when one party, Mr Säpo, does not have to demonstrate transparency with the evidence because it is not a criminal case. No deportee has so far won an LSU process. The law is used very rarely, and when used it has not always been right. In 2004, two Egyptian citizens were expelled to Egypt. They were tortured and imprisoned, despite Egypt's assurances that they would not be subjected to torture. Sweden was convicted in the UN torture committee. When political parties raise the issue of diplomatic guarantees, they should be aware that they are on thin ice. Too many countries have too weak democratic development and an extremely dubious rule of law. The law is needed, but adjustments need to be made. Measures such as the obligation to report to the police are good for dealing with persons who are not convicted of a crime but still pose a security risk. Different forms of electronic monitoring with a anklet can be an acceptable addition. In order to strengthen legal certainty, the management of LSU must be moved from closed rooms at the Government Office and the neighbourhood Nothing to court. The Left Party wants decisions on LSU to be moved from the government table to the Supreme Administrative Court. A legal judge is more familiar with the assessment and interpretation of the law than ministers who swerve depending on where the political wind blows. Courts are used to handling personal matters with high confidentiality and sensitive information. Various forms of detention have come up in the debate. I want to be clear. In Sweden we do not put people in custody who are not suspected or convicted of various forms of violent crime. We don't lock people in cramped rooms indefinitely. Setting up a Swedish Guantánamo on Öland is contrary to the human rights of the European Convention. Terrorism, violent extremism and those who threaten and hate our democracy, our equality and our freedom, the state must keep an eye on. But in the pursuit of terrorism, the rule of law must always be protected.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-38	Mr President, I would like to Attempts to expel six people who pose a threat to national security ended with a magma. Only the presence of these persons is judged by the Swedish Security Service to be hazardous. But none of them could be expelled. Instead, they were released with a duty to notify. Someone was required to report to a police office in West Sweden but soon stopped showing up. Perhaps the most attentive are the imam of Gävle and his son. When they were released from custody, they went home and were greeted as heroes in the Qatar-funded mosque. The son is now fishing for sympathy on one of the country's largest cultural sites, which has found a new threat to relativize. Gävle Mosque is not the only mosque in Sweden funded by foreign states. There's at least 16 more. Saudi Arabia, Turkey, Libya and Oman are behind a couple of them. They exercise ideological and political control over members, imams and fellow citizens. They fertilize extremism and, at worst, terrorism. The Christian Democrats want to ban foreign financing of operations in Sweden. Foundations, associations and parishes shall be governed by statutes, not by Salafists. Mr President, I would like to On the eve of the terrorist attack on Drottninggatan 2017, the Social Democrats voted against this House for a ban on association with terrorist organisations. Soon thereafter, they changed their mind. Reality was jamming. And reality has continued to intrude. In the 2017 Terrorist Agreement, they agreed to ban association. But they didn't succeed. The Government's proposal was stopped by the Law Council; it was contrary to the Constitution. It is a failure of the government, and it is a failure of the terrorist agreement. It's not the only thing. Säpo states that they see a relatively large number of organisations linked to violent extremist environments receiving public funds through state or municipal grants. This was also promised by the government to stop in the Terrorist Agreement, but they have not even set up an investigation. Was the terror agreement just a paper tiger, Mikael Damberg, something to wave in the face of the Swedish people? Where are the proposals that seriously stop the spread of extremism in Sweden? What is the government's action plan?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-44	Mr President, I would like to The Special Alien Control Act is a central tool for dealing with non-Swedish citizens who are deemed to pose security threats to Sweden. It may be potential terrorists or persons who are otherwise considered to be a danger to our country. They can be prevented from coming here, and they can be prevented from staying. It is hardly perfect legislation from the point of view of legal certainty for those who go to Sweden or who we ask to leave the country. But democracy does not only have a right to defend itself – it also has a duty to defend itself against the forces that want to overthrow democracy in our country. We Liberals believe that this system, which takes place without the transparency that we otherwise have in legal proceedings, is absolutely necessary. The alternatives are unreasonable. To have to expose the entire information collection, the whole of the Swedish information system, in an open process would not last. We must accept that a democracy must have a small, small corner where the government is being tested. Ultimately, of course, the government's assessments are also subject to the European Council Court of Human Rights. However, the problem arises that persons to be expelled cannot be expelled depending on the situation in their home country. These people we want to get rid of risk inhumane treatment or, at worst, the death penalty. This balance is difficult for us liberals. We will protect Sweden. People who engage in threats and hatred and anything but love our constitution should really be grateful that they are helped to leave the country. But that's not the case. Moreover, these people have not infrequently made themselves impossible in the countries in which they come from and are citizens, not infrequently because this country is in disintegration or is a disgusting dictatorship. But, colleagues and listeners: Civilised countries do not send people to torture dens or shooting directly from Sweden, no matter – excuse me, Mr President – however stupid in their heads. So they remain in custody. They can later be released. They're under heavy surveillance. They can continue to walk around our streets, but with the obligation to report, it is difficult to carry out any advanced terrorist activity. However, it is sad to see that they have come to Sweden at all. We Liberals are happy to maximise the time for enforcement. We are happy to use more electronic equipment for monitoring. We would like additional directives to be included in the inquiry if necessary. We are not resisting this. We are happy to continue to increase the resources of the Swedish police and the Swedish Security Service. This issue is not easy. We must ensure that we go hand in hand with human rights.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-53	Mr President, I would like to We are debating this Friday morning's Special Alien Control Act. We are doing so in the light of the decisions on this legislation that have been taken on radical Islamists where the government has decided on expulsion, because it has been called for with regard to national security. The problem is that there has been a great risk of these people being subjected to torture, death penalty or other inhuman or degrading treatment if they were to execute the expulsions. Therefore, expulsion decisions are suspended and postponed. And since decisions cannot be enforced, the people cannot be detained either. Instead, they have been required to report five times a week to the police. From the Green Party, the starting point is that Sweden should continue to respect human rights within the framework of the international conventions to which we are affiliated. At the same time, the relative freedom of movement provided by the system of notification, even if it is up to five times a week, is not optimal. It would be good if we could also monitor these people more. Nor can we keep people who are not suspected of any crime in detention for the rest of their lives. Soon an investigation will be handed over. Of course, we look forward to seeing it when it comes in order to move forward with proposals. Since 2014, Säpo has 50 percent higher funding, and together we will have to do more against terrorism but also while maintaining legal certainty.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-58	Mr President, I would like to You can listen to this debate in different ways. Either you hear that we disagree very much. It's loud. Or you read a little bit what people really say, and then the parties are quite in agreement, both about how the law today and international conventions are to be interpreted and about that more needs to be done to tighten up the legislation but also to remove the obstacles to enforcement. It's a loud tone from some parties. I have sometimes likened it to a theatre performance. For example, if you read the long article that the Moderates wrote in the newspaper today, you will not find anywhere a solution to the question of how to deal with those people who will actually no longer be in custody. There are other suggestions that may be interesting, such as more resources for the Security Service, on which we agree. It is also about the investigation that is now in place to deliver proposals on both extended times for enforcement and better monitoring possibilities with secret coercive measures and look at the issue of electronic anklet. Those questions are there in the investigation. The proposals raised by the Swedish Security Service in their request to the Government are also dealt with in the investigation, which will make its proposal at the beginning of next year. Is there a plan to ensure that these executions are carried out quickly? I would like to point out that during the previous government the LSU was applied six times, I think it was. As far as I know, they never worked to get expulsions executed. At no time did the former government seek to remove enforcement barriers. I say in this House that the government is working to remove enforcement barriers. It is somehow a new position we have here where the government is working on a very difficult issue. Sometimes it is presented in the debate as being extremely easy to do this, but after all, Sweden is a rule of law, and the government must comply with both Swedish law and international commitments. I believe that there is broad support for this in this House. I am also not satisfied with the order we have today, where these people are admitted five days a week, where they cannot work in Sweden, where they do not have the right to run companies in Sweden and where their freedom of movement is severely limited, but where more needs to be done to keep track of these individuals and also limit their opportunities. Then there was the question of diplomatic guarantees. There is an interesting example in the UK. They have had general agreements on diplomatic guarantees that are highlighted as an example. On the basis of the information we have received, however, the United Kingdom, despite the agreements, has not been able to execute expulsions in most of these cases. In a known case – the best known – it succeeded, but only after ten years of work. It says something about the complexity of the work. But I hope that we can have a broad political consensus that we will work together to make it possible to also remove these enforcement barriers and ensure that these people are expelled from Sweden.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-66	Mr President, I would like to When I listen to Mikael Damberg, I am not convinced that the government fully understands the extent of the problem. It is not a ban on running companies for these people who will keep Sweden safe. We are talking about completely different types of problems and completely different types of solutions. We in the Moderates have pointed out a number of things that should be done, both in the long term linked to diplomatic guarantees and here and now to reinforce the appropriations of the Security Service, that is to say, to keep an eye on these people. They're not supposed to be able to move out in the community. They can walk the streets around Sweden, and that is totally unacceptable to me. But I would also like to remind Mikael Damberg that this government is now in its sixth year of government. I still wonder what the government's plan is to deal with the situation. When will we see results for real?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-69	Mr President, I would like to The government has increased the funds for both the police and the Security Service by about 50%, and we have increased them every year. Every year, we test the resources required for the Security Service. There is now an investigation that proposes exactly what Johan Forssell proposes, namely that we develop better ways of working with secret coercive measures, look at electronic surveillance and ensure that the time for enforcement can be longer. We agree on that. But I noted that as the debate broke down, it sounded on the Moderates like the Moderates had some solution that these people would not be released from custody. Today it has completely disappeared. There was not a line about it in the article. If we agree that the Swedish government and parliament must comply with both Swedish law and international conventions, then that is what Johan Forssell describes that we must continue to do in Sweden. I understand that the parties agree that we need to do more of this. Then it is the investigation that comes at the beginning of next year that is absolutely crucial.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-73	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that the government must comply with Swedish laws. But I will inform Mikael Damberg of something, namely that legislation can be changed. We do it every day in this Chamber. We from the Moderates have said that the government should do this in a wide range of areas. It will be a little strange to hear the minister responsible constantly talking about the Moderates and reviewing our proposals. Where is the government's concrete plan to deal with this? When will we see results?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-75	Mr President, I would like to My only comment was that the Moderates have not proposed anything that would prevent these people from being released from custody. It is an important information for those who listen to the debate and hear the loud voice. The parties agree that we should strengthen the supervision of these people. We agree that we are now going to work on trying to remove obstacles to the expulsion of such people, and the government is working on this. But don't think it's easy. It is purposeful work, and then it is good if Parliament can also agree on such efforts that make it very difficult for these people to stay in Sweden.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-77	Mr President, I would like to As is well known, the Swedish Democrats have long raised motions with proposals to change the law and change the attitude towards detention from being something that only facilitates expulsion to actually ensuring that these people who pose a security threat should not be released into our streets. It may be that in some cases it is impossible to keep them in detention indefinitely, but I think that the attitude of the government when changing the law must be to move from facilitating enforcement to actually ensuring that dangerous people are not released into our streets. There may be cases where people do not risk torture or the death penalty in their home countries, where they can freely return, where it is not impossible to keep them in detention indefinitely. Is the government prepared to do this? I will come back with another question in my second speech.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-81	Mr President, I would like to My attitude is that we should do what the Security Service asks of us. They have submitted a request for an investigation to change the legislation. The investigation's directive meets at every point the request of the Security Service. Does this mean, then, that people can be kept in custody indefinitely? No, it doesn't. Even Säpo states that it is not possible for Sweden to comply with international conventions, which I believe there is a large majority for the Swedish parliament as well. Then there must be better tools with secret coercive measures. M an must make sure to limit these people's ability to act in Sweden and give the Swedish Security Service and the police good resources to follow these people as long as they are in Sweden. I think it is important also to look at the environments, to access the environments that are radicalising. Another environment that the Swedish Security Service has pointed out is the school environments – the religious schools – and that Säpo today does not have the opportunity to inform independent schools about the work of violent people there. That's not good!
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-85	Mr President, I would like to When the government acts on behalf of the recommendations of Säpo, the Swedish Democrats act on the Swedish people's request to secure our country from dangerous individuals. Perhaps that is the big difference between the two of us in the debate. The second question I would like to ask is whether you want to release these people to our country. Are you prepared to stop these people, forbid them, from preaching in mosques? Today, for example, we are talking about imams, which, because they are imams, pose a security threat when they radicalise other people. Does the government intend to ban them from preaching in Sweden's mosques?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-87	Mr President, I would like to It is important that a government in Sweden complies with both Swedish law and international conventions. There you have to be clear and dare to stand for it too when the wind blows. Otherwise, we have not defended ourselves against anti-democratic forces, as we are to do. Then there was the question of imams. It is illegal to advocate some form of accession to terrorist groups or to fund terrorist groups. I think we need to look at not only them, but also Swedish schools where there may be violent extremists today. I hope that more parties can agree that we need to change the regulatory framework there too.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-89	Mr President, I would like to After the terrible deeds in Paris in 2015, we initiated cross-party talks about how we best defend Sweden from terrorist threats. Then the government took responsibility and showed leadership. Together with the Alliance's parties, we found a fruitful form to work together to solve serious problems that threatened Sweden's security. In two steps, a series of decisions were taken to close gaps that had been identified. One of these gaps was how we deal with these people, who, by posing a threat to national security, have no real right to reside in our country but who, on humanitarian and legal grounds, we cannot expel. A number of debaters will certainly touch on the meekness of the work. However, I identify a structural problem in the government, namely the lack of a clear plan for justice policy. What do you really want? What is one's priority? What is the long-term construction of the secure society? These are questions to which I, and certainly many others, would like answers.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-92	Mr President, I would like to That is an important issue. First of all, I would like to say that, with regard to the LSU legislation too, we have tried to involve ourselves by starting from the Security Service's request for what the review would be like and taking care of all the views from there. Then came an announcement from the Riksdag. It is also taken care of in the investigation that will deliver its proposals at the beginning of next year. I understand that there is broad agreement on the direction of this study on tightening up the LSU legislation. A broader issue, in which I think the Center Party has a big point, is that much of the legal policy today is becoming a little polistified and not sufficiently long-term, powerful or systematic in character. That is why I have welcomed the fact that the Center Party has highlighted the issue of a security committee in order to work more systematically with the issues for a longer period of time. I believe that it would benefit both the climate of debate and, above all, a long-term sustainable legal policy in several areas.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-95	Mr President, I would like to Anyone who claims to rule the country and demands great sacrifices and position transfers of others in order to do so is responsible for building strong trust and ensuring that the plan you should have is so well established in the Swedish parliament that it can be implemented. My view is that, in the absence of any clear focus on this area, the government will only act when others have created an opinion pressure. It is in itself a good thing that others step forward and push ahead when the government does not, and I welcome the fact that the government welcomes our proposals. But without clear priorities, a twitch of justice policy is also created.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-97	Mr President, I would like to I think Johan Hedin has a point with the problem of twitchiness. That is why I believe that the Center Party's proposal for a security committee is wise. We will come back to that. But it is also the case that this government has done more than previous governments in the field of justice policy. We will continue to do so, because we have decided to push back, above all, the gross violence that characterises the gang environments in Sweden. We are also doing this with cooperation in this House, not least with the Center Party and the Liberals. We agree to make strong efforts, for example, on the police and its conditions as an important element in pushing back crime in Sweden.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-100	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party believes that it should be the Administrative Court and not the Government that decides on the Special Alien Control Act. I have two brief, simple questions for the Minister: Why should it be politically appointed ministers rather than legally trained judges who decide on these matters, which ultimately concern national security? What is the legal competence of a minister that a judge in the administrative court does not have?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-104	Mr President, I would like to I think it is incredibly important to defend the law on special foreign control. I don't think we should change the structure of it either. As far as the decision is concerned, there has been a desire for an ultimate appeal all the way up to the government. That is what we have today, and that is why we are making decisions. We have done so in these matters and went on the recommendation of Säpo on expulsion. At the next stage of this, it is even more important that we have good cooperation between, for example, the government and the Security Service in trying to remove the obstacles to enforcement. There, it is largely international conditions and conditions in individual cases that will determine whether we succeed or not.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-107	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Minister that this is complicated legislation. What I am extremely concerned about is that in future political winds will blow in a more undemocratic direction. By moving the process from the political space, from the closed room of the Government Office, to an open court that is used to making difficult decisions, we are securing democracy and the rule of law.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-109	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to see that LSU cases concern foreign citizens staying in Sweden. There is no unlimited right for foreign citizens to reside in our country. If it is judged in Sweden that these persons pose a threat to national security or may be covered by terrorist suspicions, Sweden has the right to decide that they will no longer exist in Sweden. I do not think it is an unreasonable order, and so I am a little concerned that the Left Party has actually questioned this law.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-110	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Damberg was at the end of a change of line in getting to the environments behind extremism and terrorism. In view of this, I would like to ask you a question. In the terrorist agreements both 2015 and 2017, we agreed that no public funds should go to people or organisations that promote extremism. But still nothing has happened. As I said in my speech, the Security Service has had to go out and warn about this. My questions are: What are the measures? When's the bill coming? And is Mikael Damberg prepared to try and come forward with a proposal to ban foreign extremists from financing mosques in Sweden?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-113	Mr President, I would like to I would like to answer the question, but in the debate it sounded and continues to sound to the Christian Democrats like the LSU legislation can be amended so that these people are kept for an unlimited period of time, or at least a year, even though there are obstacles to enforcement. Can Andreas Carlson now confirm that the Christian Democrats too understand what Swedish legislation and international conventions look like and that there is no doubt that these were false claims on the part of the Christian Democrats during the debate? That's the first thing. The second is that I think it is very important to strangle the money to extremism. Then it is not simply how to do it or what systems to have for it. We have had an investigation that looked at how to work with grants and other things and have made suggestions in this area. We have the discussion that Andreas Carlson himself is on how international funding of some extremism environments takes place. But this also happens in Swedish school. I think it is completely indecent that today we have a system in place that the Security Service can inform the owners of independent schools if there are suspicions of extremism. But if there is a suspected teacher at an independent school, Säpo must not inform about it. You can't have it that way.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-116	Mr President, I would like to I'm running out of time, but I'm gonna try to answer Damberg's questions. I note that there was no clear response to how to tackle the basic problem and no government proposal to ban the financing of foreign extremists who go in and pay mosques in Sweden. As far as schools are concerned, the problem is not the registered confessional free schools. For example, Aktiebolaget Vetenskapsskolan is not a religious free school. As far as detention times are concerned, we believe that the government has not done enough to keep these security risks in custody.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-120	Mr President, I would like to If we talk about environments, I have to say that if there are religious schools that somehow indoctrinate children right from the start, it is a huge problem. I think we should be tougher against religious schools in Sweden. Personally, I do not want them at all – except, of course, for our national minorities, which we shall safeguard. That's one thing. The second is that today the Security Service is not even allowed to inform an independent school if it works a person in the teacher collective who is linked to violent extremism. It is quite unreasonable, and it could be resolved by a rather simple change in the principle of public access.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-123	Mr President, I would like to For the Liberals, it is essential that in our cooperation with the Government we constantly strengthen the Swedish judiciary in general and the police and the Security Service in particular. That is why we are giving more money today – real money, Mr President – than the Swedish police and the Swedish Security Service have ever had. It's important. The Minister for Home Affairs has done a great deal of preventive work. For the Liberals, it is essential that the Centre against violent extremism, for example, be moved from Brå to the police. When does that proposal come? We think that we need to strengthen the transparency of the Folkbildningsrådet to ensure that money does not go to strange things, i.e. extremism in general. We look forward to proposals to ban foreign funding, as some previous speaker here mentioned. This is central to prevention. We must not be naive. It is an ecosystem of people today engaged in radicalising and creating new extremists, and it is a constant threat to people's lives in Sweden.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-127	Mr President, I would like to I think it is incredibly important that we have now left the discussion that is just about terror and finding potentially dangerous people to look at the environments that contribute to radicalisation. There, CVE has a key role to play in informing authorities and municipalities on these issues in order to help them make the right assessments and move forward, in close cooperation with the Security Service and the police. I am conducting a close dialogue with CVE and others on how this activity can be further developed. Let's get back to how that discussion can move forward. It is absolutely essential that there is good transparency in the Folkbildningsrådet, that we take the issue of resource allocation to civil society very seriously and that we have very great control over whether there are international actors who want to influence the Swedish debate from other countries. Here I look forward to continued good cooperation.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-129	Mr President, I would like to It's crucial that CVE is transferred to the police. That's where they belong. The police in themselves have an important preventive and informational work to do so that we can push back this madness we are talking about in the long term. Finally, I have another question. Does the government link the removal of enforcement barriers with the support that Sweden may provide to some of the countries in question? We must put maximum pressure on these obstacles to be removed as soon as possible.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-131	Mr President, I would like to We are working to remove enforcement barriers, but I would rather not discuss in public how we do this. This could actually make it more difficult to succeed. It is not so much about general action but about individual countries and individuals and the assessments made in the individual cases. We should, in cooperation with the Security Service, do a solid job and try to achieve success, rather than talking about it.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-132	Mr President, I would like to We, the Moderates, have pointed out in this debate a number of concrete things that can be done to remedy this very worrying situation. We need to change the law on special foreign control. We need to start work on diplomatic guarantees, as happens in several other countries. We need to tighten up the anti-terrorism legislation further and to start with implementing what we agreed on four years ago. We are still waiting for much of that. We also need to go further and enhance Swedish citizenship and ensure that people who choose to commit terrorist offences can have their Swedish citizenship withdrawn and expelled. And we need to increase resources for the Swedish Security Service here and now in order to give them better conditions to guard individuals who pose a threat to Sweden's security and also to strengthen the important investigation work. Mr President, I would like to During this debate, I have put a simple question to the minister responsible: what is the government's plan to deal with this situation? But there's no plan. It sounds to Mikael Damberg like he's in opposition. He stands and talks about the proposals of all other parties and what the alliance government did or did not do. But this government is now in its sixth year of power. At some point, Mikael Damberg, it's time to step forward and show some leadership and take some responsibility. Take this with the good cooperation with the Security Service. After the Security Service sends a submission to the government, it takes a year and a half before the government does anything. Mr President, I would like to Is this an example of good cooperation? No, I'm still asking myself, what's the plan? I know this is complicated and difficult. But the hardest part is for the one who never tries. So, Home Secretary, what's the government plan?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-137	Mr President, I would like to It does not matter how many times you say in a loud voice that there is no plan if the measures you present yourself are in principle the same proposal that I have put forward in the speaker's chair. So do we have the same plan? It is about strengthening the law on enforcement detention, ensuring that you can work with secret coercive measures, examining whether it is possible with electronic anklet and working with enforcement barriers, as this government does but the previous government did not do for eight years. This is the plan – to work purposefully and systematically to tighten up the legislation and ensure that they are expelled.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-138	Mr President, I would like to I mentioned four concrete points. No one would be more satisfied than me if Mikael Damberg were to give a statement that, for example, work will be started on withdrawing citizenship and presenting an additional amending budget with substantially increased funding to the Security Service. If this is the message, I am more than satisfied. Then I'd be happy to take care of this right now. Just come up and do it if you do. Then we can get along. But now it takes action, not just a lot of words.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-139	Mr President, I would like to Maybe it doesn't just take a loud tone. Perhaps this is not what can cause the Moderates to grow in public opinion, but it may also be necessary to have substance behind what they say. We can discuss the withdrawal of citizenship, but it certainly does not concern LSU matters. They apply to foreign citizens! That is the very point of this. If we are now discussing an action plan to remedy this, these must be measures that strike the problems we are discussing here and now.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-141	Mr President, I would like to What we are discussing here may not be the tone of other parties or the development of opinion. We are discussing security threats, which are currently moving freely on the streets in Swedish society. I think this is genuinely serious, and it would be nice if the minister responsible could take what is happening a little more seriously. We have presented a policy, but the government talks about what other parties do or have not done. It is time to step forward now, Minister in charge!
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-143	Mr President, I would like to I do not think there will be much tango with the government on this issue. Their policy is solid, and they have not presented any other direction of will. It will be us in the opposition who will come forward. In order to discuss constructive proposals linked to LSU, I would like to ask whether the Moderates are prepared to support the Swedish Democrats' proposal to ban foreign imams that pose a security threat according to LSU to visit mosques. If they visit mosques, they should be able to expect a detention sentence. Are the Moderates prepared to support such a proposal?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-145	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Adam Marttinen, for the question! We agree that we should turn all the stones around to ensure that these security threats cannot move freely out in society and continue their activities. However, with regard to this specific proposal, feasibility should be tested; I have some questions there. But we will look at all the proposals put forward in the Committee on Justice and then, of course, make an assessment. We're not talking about anything here. We're talking about threats to national security.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-146	Mr President, I would like to I look forward to the fact that we can discuss more issues objectively. The second question concerns, of course, the direction of will when it comes to detention. We have heard the government say that it is absolutely impossible to keep people in detention after an enforcement obstacle has arisen. We believe that it is possible to test the law in a completely different way when it comes to people who, for example, do not risk the death penalty or torture. Are the Moderates prepared to support the proposal for a new direction of will on detention, so that we can secure our streets from people who pose a threat of terror rather than keeping them in custody to make it easy to expel them?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-148	Mr President, I would like to The conventions governing this are not quite precise in their form. One can use the example of Britain. It is true, in itself, that they were convicted, but it was on the basis of the grounds of discrimination rather than the instrument of detention itself. We believe that it is possible to review this legislation, even when there are enforcement obstacles. We have already pointed out from the Moderates that this needs to be done, and we will of course continue to do so.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-149	Mr President, I would like to There is no obvious right for foreigners to stay in Sweden, especially if they pose a security threat to our country. Then the law on special foreigner control gives Sweden the opportunity to take these people into custody until they are expelled. Now it has become apparent that very few people can be expelled because there are enforcement barriers. People risk the death penalty or torture, and then it is the government's responsibility to work with diplomatic guarantees. There we may have criticisms of the fact that we have not been active enough early enough to make this possible. However, the Swedish Democrats put concrete proposals linked to the LSU on the table until we have a completely different legislation in place, which makes it possible to achieve better success. It is a question of banning foreign imams, who are to be expelled because they pose a security threat under the Special Alien Control Act, from visiting mosques. If they visit mosques, a detention sentence should wait for these imams. It is precisely in their role that they pose a security threat and act as a networker in their environments to radicalise other people to carry out terrorist acts or pose security threats in other ways. This is a concrete proposal that the Swedish Democrats are putting on the table today. I think that other parties should take this on board when we discuss the proposal with marginal adjustments that the government will eventually come up with. Furthermore, it is about the direction of will in the LSU. We want to keep people in custody because they pose a security threat. We do not like the government to keep them in custody to make it easy to expel them. It is, of course, an advantage, but when it is not possible to expel them, there must be the possibility of keeping individuals in custody to keep them away from the streets of Sweden. There must be a will orientation in the policy of how we shape the future law on special foreign control.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-154	Mr President, I would like to I am not quite clear on how the Swedish Democrats really view the issue of enforcement barriers with reference to the European Convention on Human Rights. Adam Marttinen is welcome to give a clear message about what applies. Should people who have an expulsion order be expelled in violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, or should they not?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-156	Mr President, I would like to There are various grounds for non-execution. One reason is the risk of capital punishment or torture in one's own country. Then there is the possibility for Sweden and other countries to establish diplomatic guarantees with either the country of citizenship or other countries. There are also cases where people do not risk the death penalty or torture, but where the citizen country does not accept them for forced expulsion. In these cases they could be kept in custody, with re-examination, so that they realize that time in Sweden is exhausted. Then they can return voluntarily without risking torture or persecution.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-158	Mr President, I would like to There's a lot to say about that. The European Convention on Human Rights also indicates that people cannot be locked up without a legal basis. As far as the diplomatic guarantees are concerned, let me mention a name: Najah al-al-Shammari. He is a minister of state in a government with which Adam Marttinen wants to hook his arm in order to agree on diplomatic guarantees. This person systematically carries out war crimes and oppresses his people as Minister of Defence in Iraq. In addition, he commits a grant breach of the Swedish state.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-160	Mr President, I would like to There is a clear difference between us. Johan Hedin stands up for the legislation that has released radical Islamists in our country that poses a security threat. He is completely satisfied that they can continue to visit mosques in Sweden and radicalize others. As a result of their activities, in perhaps ten years we have gone from having a couple of hundred Islamists to having 2 000 radical Islamists. There is a clear dividing line in this policy, and we have explained it separately.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-162	Mr President, I would like to My question to Adam Marttinen is similar to the one Johan Hedin just asked. Does the European Convention on Human Rights set any limits for the Swedish Democrats on what measures they are prepared to take? This applies, for example, to how long people should be kept locked up. Liberals welcome the investigation, and you can have as many anklets as you like and monitor people to the maximum. But is there any limit to this, or do the Swedish Democrats not care about the European Convention on Human Rights?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-164	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we care about the Convention on Human Rights. What I am talking about is a will-oriented approach. Do we, as a nation in Europe, want the opportunity to keep people in custody in order to secure Sweden's streets from dangerous individuals? Today we have enforcement detention in order to facilitate expulsion, i.e. no will direction. We want a will-oriented approach in which, in individual cases and in accordance with the European Convention, people can be kept in detention longer than they can today. But the will direction that will govern this is not in the hands of parties other than the Swedish Democrats.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-166	Mr President, I would like to Does Adam Marttinen seriously believe that the government is not doing what it can to get rid of these people as soon as possible? It is almost paranoid views that come from the Swedish Democrats. Of course, the government, the Liberals, yes, all of these are the fastest possible to get rid of these people, because they are not desirable. But we have laws to follow. We are making laws that increase the possibility of monitoring and hopefully incapacitation. Civilised states, however, set limits and obey laws. Isn't Adam Marttinen willing to follow them?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-168	Mr President, I would like to In my first speech, I explained that we want to follow them and how we can envisage circumventing the laws governing those very limitations. These are individual cases where it should be possible to keep people in detention for a longer period of time. We'll see another direction of will. In addition, we have put other proposals on the table that make it less attractive for foreigners to stay in Sweden, precisely to reduce the risk of these people exercising their extremism in Sweden or posing a threat and to increase the opportunity to get them to return voluntarily.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-170	Mr President, I would like to In such debates there are easily big words, exuberant descriptions of principles and glaring emotions. It is both good and interesting, but if we are to solve concrete problems, we need to become a little technical. There is a legitimate concern that the law does not allow dangerous people to be kept behind bars. There is also a reasonable criticism of a lack of legal certainty when people without being convicted of crimes are locked up. We can't lock people up without a legal basis. In a rule of law, we do not want to lock people up without a legal basis. But then let us create a legal basis for protecting our country that is proportionate and legally secure. Mr President, I would like to I have a proposal, and that is that we amend the law so that violations of the obligation to notify form a new basis for detention and that the penalties are tightened so that prison becomes the normal penalty. In this way, we close a potentially lethal gap where someone else could prepare for serious crimes. This should be included as an additional assignment to the investigation currently under way, which should review the Special Alien Control Act. Surely it should be possible to obtain support in Parliament for such a measure. In addition to this new idea, the Center Party also supports efforts to extend the period of detention pending the execution of expulsion so as to bring it into line with those of our European neighbours.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-176	Mr President, I would like to I thank Johan Hedin for a constructive proposal in the debate: to have detention penalties for violation of, for example, the obligation to notify the police. This is something that the Swedish Democrats would of course support. I have a specific question: Is the Center Party prepared to support the Swedish Democrats' proposal to ban, for example, foreign imams from visiting mosques in order to prevent them from continuing the activities they have committed under the Special Alien Control Act?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-178	Mr President, I would like to It must be easy to be a Swedish democrat, because then you do not have to take into account international conventions or constitutions – or even if the proposals you put forward are feasible. A wide range of good-looking proposals can be put forward. However, every proposal put forward must be analysed on the basis of the potential for solving a concrete problem and what is in the balance. In this case, there is, for example, feasibility on the basis of constitutional law.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-180	Mr President, I would like to This works in other countries and could be implemented in Sweden. But of course one should investigate it and find a way forward to achieve this result. The question is what is the intentional orientation of the Center Party. Does the Center Party think it reasonable that foreign imams should be able to visit mosques and preach to and radicalize people even though they should be expelled because they pose a security threat? The direction of the game must be clear from more parties.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-182	Mr President, I would like to Let me be perfectly clear on one point. I do not want a single cow to engage in the spread of violent messages or anti-democratic activities. But we have laws to comply with, and freedom of religion is an extremely important principle in Sweden and other democratic rule of law. You can't just make things up in Parliament's Chamber and think that it can be done. But I'm gonna give Adam Marttinen the benefit of the double. I am prepared to look at just every proposal that can strengthen security in Sweden.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-184	Mr President, I would like to What this debate is really about is that too many right-wing parties want our society to be perceived as an insecure place of high crime, one day being violent jihadism, which is the threat and the other day the criminal gangs of the suburbs. This insecurity and crime is blamed on someone else, i.e. the part of the population that does not appear to be born in Sweden. Immigrants and refugees are portrayed as dangerous, criminal and some that destroy Sweden's economy. Crime and insecurity are the very backbone of this policy, and expelling and expelling immigrants is the solution, all in order for bourgeois parties to hide how Sweden has been torn apart economically and how rich has become richer and poorer. The basis of crime is poverty, not which country you come from. But the Moderates and Christian Democrats lower taxes for the rich, shut down social services in Gothenburg and fire all doctors from Stockholm Hospital. And then they accuse asylum seekers of creating insecurity. The only thing dangerous is parties whose only policy is based on fear and making a difference between people and people. As more and more parties adopt the false and simplistic picture that refugees and immigrants are responsible for insecurity, this does something with the debate on society. Instead of reducing gaps between people, hostility grows. Instead of creating a well-being for all, a we and a judgment are created. Every time Moderates Johan Forssell opens its mouth, the Swedish Democrats grow by a few percent.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-189	Mr President, I would like to For the Left Party, it's all about class. Poor people become criminals, and rich people wear their shoes at the expense of the poor. In this case, however, we are discussing the law on special foreign control, which regulates persons who pose a security threat. In most cases it is terrorists, Islamist ones. My brief question, just as a reality check here for the Left Party in the debate, is: Are all these individuals who are to be expelled under the Special Alien Control Act to be termed poor individuals?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-191	Mr President, I would like to I find it interesting, Adam Marttinen, that the Swedish Democrats have a lot in common with violent jihadism. You hate feminists, gays, lesbians and climate activists, and you are very eager to reduce and restrict religious freedom. It is exciting that you have so much in common and that the tone is still so high.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-192	Mr President, I would like to Here we have the drama and embarrassment of the Swedish Parliament personalized: Linda Westerlund Snecker in the debate. Thanks for the post! But when it comes to the answer to the question: Can you see a class analysis in this? The people who committed the terrorist attacks in London were well-educated individuals. This is an ideological war and has nothing to do with class. Try to get into the debate and see the reality for once!
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-194	I would like to remind you that we should avoid personal attacks of this kind in the Swedish Parliament.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-195	Mr President, I would like to Personal attacks are the only thing Adam Marttinen and the Swedish Democrats can handle. Difficult questions, they're totally incapacitated. I have a reality check for the Swedish Democrats: what we are discussing are people who have not committed crimes but who pose a security risk to Sweden. You can't tell this from Adam Marttinen. It's apples and pears. What you want to do is a fruit salad in your populist policy.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-197	Mr President, I would like to Everyone has the right to take part in the reasons given for having his or her residence permit revoked, but unlike in criminal proceedings, it cannot always be revealed how the law enforcement authorities have received the information on which the decision is based. This would reveal important information on how to work, which would seriously weaken protection against national security. The proposal put forward by Linda Westerlund Snecker is interesting but does not solve the problem itself. Or does she believe that the information on the basis of which the information has been disclosed should be disclosed in such a process?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-199	Mr President, I would like to I certainly do not think that the very sensitive reasons that exist for some people to pose a security threat to Sweden should be disclosed. That's why the process should go to court, because Swedish law is a professional in secrecy, on difficult assessments and on keeping things secret. Some people who aren't pros at this, we're politicians. I do not think that the Government Office should sit on such tasks and decide in such extremely difficult cases.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-200	Mr President, I would like to I can buy the basic reasoning, but the fact remains that Linda Westerlund Snecker wants to force the security services to disclose important information in court proceedings to a wider circle than only those working on these issues. Some things need to be kept secret for them to be able to do their important job of protecting Sweden from terrorist attacks and other threats to national security.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-201	Mr President, I would like to That is why we in Swedish courts have principles such as closed doors and strict confidentiality legislation, and that is why Swedish courts decide on secret coercive measures – precisely because they are very sensitive cases. I believe that if we investigate this issue and ensure that we guarantee democracy and the rule of law by allowing these decisions to be taken by legally trained judges, not by political ministers who flinch to where the wind is turning, then we will guarantee the rule of law for many years to come.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-203	Mr President, I would like to This debate is complicated. Keeping your balance and your mind when you're boiling with anger is important. If you are a little cold here, you can see how we are attacked by various populist proposals, and all kinds of legal conventions that state that Sweden is a civilized country are to be abandoned. This also comes from the Left Party, which seriously believes that we should have trials where it should be explained which people have probably testified in our information gathering to tell us that people are engaging in things that make us not want them here. It's serious crime. We are talking about non-Swedish citizens who must be expelled. Wouldn't the government have lawyers in place? It's crawling with lawyers there.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-206	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Johan Pehrson, I trust Swedish justice. I trust our courts. I trust our judges and that they are highly professional. We have systems like closed doors and confidentiality. Incredibly difficult decisions are made every day in Swedish courts. They're extremely used to it. Some who are not used to making such decisions are we politicians and appointed ministers at the Government Office. I trust our state authorities more in being able to take a long-term and democratic stance on such issues.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-207	Mr President, I would like to Does Linda Westerlund Snecker mean that people who testify and tell and who form the basis for the decisions that are made today when non-Swedish citizens are not desirable or are to be expelled should appear in court before lawyers and before the person concerned? Doesn't Linda Westerlund Snecker think these people are threatened? It can be democracy fighters from Iran or people who work for women's rights in Turkey or whatever you want. After all, it is a situation in which these people are in danger of life.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-208	Mr President, I would like to That is precisely why we have a system in Swedish courts that has a video link with witnesses and closed doors and separates the different parties. I am not saying that we should apply a criminal procedure, but I am proposing that we should sit in the administrative court when it comes to these matters. This needs to be investigated and looked at, but I stand by the principle. I think that Swedish courts and judicial judges are much more competent to decide on such matters than politically appointed ministers.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-209	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Moderates for the initiative for this debate. It has been clarifying in many ways. When you listen to Minister Mikael Damberg it sometimes sounds like he is an opposition politician or representative of some kind of think tank. We heard a proposal from Mikael Damberg in a change of line that I had with him earlier, where he said that Säpo today cannot inform a school and that it would be quite easy to solve. But you're welcome. There are opportunities when you lead a job as Minister of the Interior to start and take initiatives. Or will this idea also be put in the waiting-and-see box that is obviously in the Ministry of Justice, where, for example, the issue of an LSU investigation ended up? Although the Security Service alerted, it took a year and a half before the government took up this alarm report and launched an investigation. Why does every time there is a sharp warning take so long? Had the government acted immediately when the alarm came from the Security Service, we would have had the legislation that will now be presented in an investigation in March, as we have heard Mikael Damberg say several times. I think this is speaking for the work of this government when it comes to threats to national security and when it comes to justice policy. But it will well end up with the opposition in the Committee on Justice taking an initiative and pressing for the initiative, or idea, that came from Mikael Damberg in this debate.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-212	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals would also like to thank the Moderates for the initiative. It has in many ways been an interesting debate. It is a rather narrow subject, and it is very difficult to come up with some simple solutions. It is important that, when this debate continues, we in Parliament take care of what is so important. Liberal open society is under quite a lot of pressure. Throughout history there have been right-wing extremists and left-wing extremists, and now it is Islamists who are on the wallpaper quite a lot. Everyone wants to take part in dismantling what we think is so important – the Swedish openness and Swedish freedom. That is why it is important to set a limit both to the left and to the right and to take the debate forward. But there are always more things to do. On the Liberal side, we have pointed out that we are looking forward to and welcome the investigation that is now under way. It could have been added ten years ago or five years ago. Now it will come in March. Let us wait for it and see what we can do to further tighten the control of those individuals who are not desirable in our country but cannot be sent away at the moment. Sometimes it has sounded in the debate that it is dropshipping with parachutes that you should engage in with these individuals. Morally, they really deserve this. But Sweden is a civilized country, and we are not concerned with this type of legislation. On the Liberal side, we have also highlighted the importance of prevention in the long term. It's about moving the Center against violent extremism to the police. We want to strengthen transparency in the Folkbildningsrådet. We want to ban foreign funding of religious institutions and schools and ensure that this is strengthened and controlled. We want to continue the expansion of the police and the Security Service. And we want to strengthen the conditions for electronic monitoring to reveal this type of activity. It has been a good debate and it needs to continue.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-217	Mr President, I would like to In December 2001, two Egyptian nationals were expelled from Bromma airport. They were chained up, undressed, and taken to Egypt where they were subjected to gross torture. One was not convicted but came back to Sweden after a couple of years. This is also something we must learn from. We will work actively to remove enforcement barriers. But it is not straightforward, because it is a question of oppressive regimes. Sometimes it's just grotesque regimes. This received criticism from the KU and the UN Committee against Torture. And we must take with us and learn that we must combine security for Sweden with respect for human rights and the European Convention. Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that the Swedish Security Service is a strong authority that works well and has control of dangerous people. We have added more funds to Mr Säpo, and there has been a broad consensus on that. More importantly, it has been that Säpo has been given more tools to do their job. The latest example was secret data reading. On behalf of the Green Party, we proposed two and a half years ago that electronic monitoring with a anklet be made possible. Then there were criticisms from some parties. Now there seems to be a consensus, which I think is good. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to thank you for the initiative for this debate. These are important issues and will continue to be so.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-223	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Moderates again for this debate. It is a bit of a tone of voice, but we have a responsibility in this House to push these issues forward. There is a frustration that we cannot de facto expel a number of people whom we in this House believe should not exist in our country. I look forward to seeing that we will soon have an investigation report showing how we can tighten up this legislation – sharpen the legislation – so that the Security Service will also have new tools. It's necessary. The government then continues its efforts to remove the obstacles to enforcement. I understand that there is broad political agreement on doing such work.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-228	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked me what horizontal measures I am prepared to take to ensure that paragraph 70 on arms exports in the January agreement has an impact on arms exports to the countries concerned. Exports of war material from Sweden are tested on the basis of a very strict regulatory framework that the Riksdag and the Government have established and where the Inspection for Strategic Products, ISP, is the competent licensing authority. Since 2013, no authorisations for new exports of armaments from Sweden to Saudi Arabia have been issued, and in 2017 for the United Arab Emirates. Sweden has one of the world's most strict regulations for controlling arms exports. With the entry into force of the so-called KEX agreement last year, the Swedish rules have also been further strengthened. The January Agreement sets out an important principled approach to not approving arms export deals with non-democratic countries involved in the Yemeni military conflict as long as the conflict continues. According to the Swedish export control framework, ISP examines issues regarding permits for the export of armaments. ISP can consult the Export Control Council, EKR, where representatives of all parliamentary parties are seated. If ISP submits a case to the Government, the Government will examine it in accordance with the applicable regulations.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-231	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer to my interpellation, Minister. The background to the interpellation is that you usually refer to the authority ISP, the Inspection for Strategic Products, when you comment on export control at political level. It is customary to use formulations such as the examination of each individual case. Therefore, Mr President, paragraph 70 of the January Agreement is something of a foreign bird in this context. The point is generally formulated, and it is also included in a political agreement. I must also point out that the answer given by the Government is unusually telling. First of all, I believe that the emphasis on the fact that new authorisations have not been issued in recent years means that it can be concluded that subsequent deliveries are not covered by paragraph 70. From the consistent references to the acquis and the legislation in force, I also conclude that paragraph 70 is really of no material significance.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-234	Mr President, I would like to First of all, perhaps I should just note that the title of Allan Widman's interpellation, Swedish arms exports to Yemen, is largely rather misleading. Sweden has never exported any weapons to Yemen. Nor does Sweden intend to export any weapons to Yemen; it is not on the map, so to speak, given the situation. As far as the issue is concerned, previous deals with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, which are therefore involved in the conflict with Yemen. But there it is, as I said in my reply, that no new deals have been approved with Saudi Arabia since 2013 or with the United Arab Emirates since 2017. Now we will see how the conflict unfolds – there is evidence that the United Arab Emirates is withdrawing from it, but as I said, it remains to be seen. For some years now, however, neither the government nor the responsible authority, the ISP, has approved any new business with Saudi Arabia or the United Arab Emirates. The January agreement confirms that position. That is my opinion. If Allan Widman has any comments on this, perhaps he should bring it up with his party leadership rather than with me, because the Liberals are in favour of the January Agreement and its wording in that part. In general, I can see that Sweden has one of the world's strongest legislations on arms exports. It became even stricter last year, when we also introduced a special democracy criterion that strengthens the legislation. There are also reforms to strengthen follow-up, that is, to ensure that what we export is put in the right place and does not get out of hand. However, this is not the only one, but Sweden probably also has the world's most transparent system in the field of arms exports. The parties of Parliament are involved in this in a way that I would like to say is nowhere else in the world. That's the order we have. In the Export Control Council there are representatives of all parliamentary parties, where all major business is discussed. It is ISP's Director General who makes decisions in the cases, but the Export Control Council has a very important advisory function in the Swedish system. There is also Allan Widman's Liberal Party. This is a good order, and I will continue to protect it.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-240	Mr President, I would like to As far as transparency is concerned, there were some proposals from the KEX investigation. However, they will not be implemented. I can share the view that transparency in relation to parliamentary parties is very good, but when it comes to public transparency, it is very limited in these cases. I note that the Government continues to emphasise that these are new permits. I therefore again conclude that consequential deliveries are not considered to fall within the scope of paragraph 70. I also note that the Government consistently confirms that paragraph 70 is to be seen as a confirmation of the current regulatory framework, and so I can again conclude that it is of no material importance. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that we Members are not putting the title of our interpellations themselves – this is happening with the parliamentary administration's assistance.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-243	Mr President, I would like to No, I wouldn't say that the point lacks material meaning. When we say so clearly that there has been no new business, we send out an important signal outwards: Should there be questions on the government's table – if the ISP were to raise a case, for example, on a new business – one can, on the basis of the January agreement, figure out how such a trial would probably come out. This applies, of course, within the framework of existing legislation, because we also say this in the wording of the January Agreement: applicable law and legislation must be applied. It is also an important mark which, if I put it that way, bears on the business that is not new. When it comes to public access to transparency, there are, of course, certain issues in the public administration with which we cannot be completely open. I believe that the public also understands this. Here it is both business secrecy and foreign secrecy, that is, Sweden's relationship with foreign power. Although I am a great friend of transparency, public access and openness, I – like the public, I know – realise that there are issues that cannot actually be dealt with openly. It would harm Sweden's interests, sometimes seriously, if we did so. However, I am pleased with the order we have, namely a transparent order in relation to the parliamentary parties. This gives the parties the opportunity not only for transparency but also to influence how to land in the various concrete affairs. I say that in practice Sweden is alone in the world about such a system. I think it's good, and I'd like to hold on to it. There, as I said, the individual cases are dealt with. I have no reason to change this order, and it was confirmed, as I said, by Parliament as late as last year. I assume that Allan Widman is behind it. Allan Widman and the Liberals also supported the agreement we reached on the new KEX legislation – also on the issue of transparency.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-247	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Allan Widman and the Liberals are behind the KEX agreement. At the same time, I would like to say that, in terms of transparency, we wanted to go further. The KEX agreement is a compromise where everyone has had to give and take. My assessment is that the discretion regarding Swedish arms trade with abroad is an important competitive advantage for the Swedish defence industry. I think so.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-249	Mr President, I would like to That is where we share our view. This is one of the most difficult areas to deal with, both ethically – sometimes – and politically. That's just the way it is. On the one hand, we have an interest in ensuring that the defence equipment we export does not fall into the wrong hands and that it is used legitimately in the sense that the starting point must be that other countries have the right to defend their country as we have the right to defend our country. There should therefore be a reasonable basis for us to be able to export, if we have an arms industry in Sweden, to countries, for example, that have legitimate interests in defending their security. I have no problem defending that at all – on the contrary, I think it is a good moral principle to keep on. On the other hand, it is important to ensure that these weapons do not fall into the wrong hands. That is why we have this strict regulatory framework. In addition, there is the argument concerning our defence industry, which in turn is linked to our freedom of alliance. That is to say, if we are to maintain this freedom of alliance in a good and credible way in the future, we must also have access to our own defence industry. This means – in order for it to be able to carry itself at all – that one must be prepared to export armaments. It is therefore a difficult ethical issue. The order we have in place, I think, has landed well, and I stand for this legislation. But this is not the easiest policy area we have to deal with, one might say.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-255	Mr President, I would like to Larry Söder has asked me if the government intends to come up with proposals that strengthen consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market and whether the government intends to use SOU 2017:31, i.e. a government investigation, as a basis for any proposals to strengthen consumer protection. It should be safe to live and invest in right-of-occupancy apartments. There is therefore a need for good legal protection both for right-holders and for those who intend to buy a right-of-occupancy apartment, not least because a purchase of a right-of-occupancy apartment often has a huge economic impact on a private individual. The government therefore commissioned an investigator to review how consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market can be strengthened. The proposals contained in the report referred to by Larry Söder concern several different aspects of consumer protection. The issues raised by the proposals thus differ. In recent years, changes in the market and the approaches of different actors have raised new issues that affect consumers' interests. The development illustrates the importance of the regulatory framework providing solutions that people can rely on. Construction companies and creditors also have an interest in the fact that, for example, ex ante agreements are a credible form of investment. It is important that we achieve results on these issues. Therefore, at the Justice Department, we are now considering how best to proceed with them. The proposals contained in the 2017 report form part of that work.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-260	Mr President, I would like to Buying a home is perhaps the biggest business we citizens do. That's a lot of money, and we as individuals take a great risk when we invest in a home. At the same time, we put our trust in other parties to such a deal. Just when we buy a right-of-occupancy property, we also put our financial obligations in conjunction with those of others because they have shared financial obligations in a right-of-occupancy association. Then it is important that we, as legislators, take this very seriously and try to find the right balance in order for the protection of the buyer to be as good as possible without, for that reason, making things difficult, bureaucratic or uncertain for the seller. Over the past year, we have seen several examples that consumer protection in some way needs to be strengthened within the right-of-occupancy part, not least in view of the writings about some right-of-occupancy associations in Malmö. If you think about buying a tenant-owner's apartment, you face difficult situations. If you sign an advance agreement, you have no insight into the Board's activities until you sign the tenancy agreement. Increasingly, this period of time is quite long, and much can happen. There is uncertainty as to whether you, as a buyer in the period leading up to the lease agreement, can actually terminate the contract in the event of a given situation, for example in the event of major delays, increased costs and the like. I believe that when the deal in important parts has changed, there should be a clear possibility in the legislation to terminate the agreement. There are countless examples of situations in which the individual consumer has been put at risk in terms of pre-contractual contracts and situations that have radically changed and where the contract cannot be terminated – or where this entails significant economic costs – in order to escape an unsustainable situation. If you buy a right-of-occupancy in an older association, you have quite few ways to make an assessment of the status of the association in a simple and transparent manner. Some key figures for comparing associations or in other ways make it easier for the buyer to form an opinion do not really exist. You find it difficult to easily form an idea of the pace of reinvestment and what the long-term economic situation looks like in each association. Consumer protection in the right-of-occupancy market generally works quite well. Most right-of-occupancy associations are based on a sustainable and sound economic foundation, and the members of the right-of-occupancy associations can have long-term safe housing. What I see as the main elements we need to improve are the transparency of the right-of-occupancy association's work, depreciation in a long-term and sustainable way to meet maintenance needs and greater opportunity to assess the financial status of an association, both for those who are in the process of buying a share in a right-of-occupancy association and for those who only occasionally during the year take part in the work and position of the right-of-occupancy association. In addition, the possibility of terminating pre-contractual agreements is one of the most important points to review. My concern about the future is that we are taking these issues too lightly and thus undermining the right-of-occupancy as a form of housing. My hope is that the minister will take on board the investigation, SOU 2017:31, which I had included in my interpellation. Of course, it does not solve everything, but it is a good start to tackle certain elements that strengthen consumer protection. I think the right-of-occupancy is a good form of housing and I would like to see us try to make it better from a consumer perspective. The Minister replied that the report was part of the work. Are there other investigations that the Minister sees relevant for further work, or does the Minister intend to launch a new investigation in this area?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-274	Mr President, I would like to I know very well how right-of-occupancy ownership can be and is. I have bought two apartments in my life; I have subsequently also sold both of them. I have also been on the board of a housing association, so I certainly also know how complicated it can be to manage these properties and to cooperate in an association in this way. We basically have a system that we can be proud of, I would say, with a way of organising housing in the case of flats that not many other countries have. I think the way we work when it comes to the right-of-occupancy apartments and the right-of-occupancy associations is a very good way to manage real estate. As Larry Söder said, there may be reasons to strengthen consumer protection in general terms when it comes to housing rights. That is why this investigation was set up. This applies, for example, to situations where you sign up for an advance agreement – i.e. where you sign up for a right-of-occupancy apartment in a property that will eventually be built. Here we know that there have been problems when the construction is delayed or when it becomes considerably more expensive than it was intended. There is also a question about when to actually get access to the apartment to move into and what protection you have as a consumer if you don't get what you expect. There are a number of suggestions in the investigation that Larry Söder referred to. However, I believe that it is questionable whether these proposals are sufficient – I think we need to go further. Therefore, we are now preparing this at the department and considering whether we need to set up further investigations in this part in order to obtain better and more adequate protection. We are thinking about whether there is anything else that needs to be done in that part. For example, there are also proposals regarding the maintenance of the property in the rest of the investigation – how this should be accounted for in the accounts and what the depreciation rules should look like. This in turn has an impact on how the association plans its maintenance. The whole purpose is to ensure that tenant-owner associations spend enough money to manage to maintain their properties in the long term so that they do not mature. There are various technical ways to go precisely with regard to depreciation possibilities. The industry has reacted to the proposal in the investigation, and it was a united industry. HSB, Riksbyggen, SBC and all industry representatives reacted to the investigation's proposal and proposed a different model. I will not go into detail about how the various proposals differ. I can only say that we need to have more evidence to decide which way to go, whether to go the way that the investigation points out, whether to go the way that the industry points out or whether we can find something in between. We need to analyse that deeper. On the other hand, when it comes to increased demands on real estate brokers to inform about the right of residence and which parts to inform about, I think there are good proposals in the investigation that we can proceed with. The investigation therefore has a large number of proposals in quite a few areas that we are working on. However, we will need to supplement the ongoing investigation in order to be able to go to Parliament with a strong proposal. When we complete the analysis of the investigation's proposals, we will return to the Riksdag. And of course I am happy to have a dialogue with the parties in Parliament about where to land in this.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-283	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Minister that we should be fundamentally proud of the housing associations and the type of housing we have in Sweden. We are quite unique in an international perspective. I think it's very good. The answer I get from the Minister, that additional work is needed in order to move forward on this issue, is a good one. This means that it will take a little while before we come to a decision in one way or another. We are happy to participate in a dialogue to get it as good as possible. When it comes to reinvestment in housing, in real estate, the investigation suggests, for example, that there should be a liquidity analysis, so that those who are able to buy a share in the right-of-occupancy association can know what the economy looks like. There should also be different parts that allow you to easily and clearly see what the financial situation is like in the right-of-occupancy association. The unique thing about a right-of-occupancy association is that you actually go into debt together with many other people, and then you have to have as good information as possible. I would also like to draw the Minister's attention to the issue of a right-of-occupancy register, which is included in the inquiry. Unlike the land register, there is no central register of tenant-owners. If the associations do not properly handle notifications, notes and pledges, this may result in the apartment lists containing incorrect information about pledges. If these are not correct, legal losses may arise and the individual members of the Board of Directors of the Housing Association may actually be liable for damages. Not to be forgotten, it is difficult and administratively difficult for banks and credit institutions to deal with such right-of-occupancy credits. They find it difficult to obtain information easily, and this may cause them to withdraw from such parts of their business. A national register would make it easier for banks as well as associations, as well as for the individual tenant-owner and future buyers. There are several investigations into just one register, but there has never been any progress in introducing it. I think that the Minister can also take this with him in the future discussion. I think that would be very welcome. I also believe that a general review of the Right-of-occupancy Act can be carried out. It would also be welcomed by the industry. Times are changing, and the law is beginning to get a lot of years on the back, which would justify a general review of the Right-of-occupancy Act. For example, there is a lack of coordination between different laws, which makes it difficult to interpret how it should be. For example, in some cases buyers are granted membership of a right-of-occupancy association before the date of accession. Through the membership, responsibility towards the association is transferred entirely to the buyer for, for example, damage to the apartment – a situation for which the buyer cannot reasonably control but is still responsible. My question to the Minister is also: is the Minister prepared to review the Housing Law in the general sense and start work on this during this term of office?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-290	Mr President, I would like to My focus is to tighten up the legislation in some respects. This applies to what we were talking about, for example what information the broker should provide when buying a right-of-occupancy apartment. This also applies to the question of the prior agreement. There you can find yourself in the situation that you do not get what you have been promised or what you experienced was in the agreement. What right do you have? Here are suggestions in the investigation that we are working on. But I think we need to be even stronger in that part. Therefore, we simply need to take in more evidence to know where to land. When it comes to the register issue – I am of course happy to take the question with me – you should know that this is a huge market. We are talking about 25 000 tenant-owner associations in Sweden. It is self-evident that a central register of 25 000 tenant-owner associations, for example, where all panthers are to be reported, is a fairly large administrative apparatus. It must also be managed, managed and always updated in order for it to make any sense. It should be made clear that a central register is not a small thing. Larry Söder mentioned in his first post that if housing associations are not hijacked, in any case they can be taken over by individuals who do not live in the housing association or who own a company that owns some of the apartments. There are a couple of such examples in Malmö. The risk with such arrangements is that you do not manage the property in the way you should do, that it becomes a worse housing environment for the other tenant-owners, that maintenance is neglected – simply that the property stands and falls due. Larry Söder asked if there are any suggestions from other investigations that we are working on. We are now working on the issue of minority protection. Today, 10 percent of the members may require a special review of the association. However, for such a review to take place, it is not enough for the 10 percent to demand it, but it also requires a decision at a meeting. Then a majority at the AGM can vote down the proposal. In this way, the protection of minorities as a whole will fall; it will not be effective. We have said that we must change this. We want a minority to be able to go directly to the Swedish Companies Registration Office in order to get a review of the association without having to have a decision on the proceedings. That's 10 percent enough. Then there will be a much greater efficiency in examining, for example, the situations that have been mentioned. There is much that needs to be done about the risk of hijacking and the risk of rogue operators coming in, but this is at least a way to get to grips with such situations. It is a proposal that we are working on and that we hope to be able to join the Riksdag in the near future.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-295	Mr President, I would like to It is very welcome to ensure that it is at least more difficult to hijack housing associations. There have been some such high-profile cases. I think it is great that the Minister has paid attention and is working on this, because it threatens the housing associations as a phenomenon if it does not work well. I'd like to go a little further on the prior agreement. We need to resolve the problem in a good way so that it is easier to terminate an advance agreement. Not only is the price of the right-of-occupancy apartment completely different, but the time for moving in can also be moved a number of times, which puts you in a strange situation. You can end up as an individual or family in a completely different situation than the one you were in when you signed the agreement, i.e. you may not be able to get a loan for the apartment. We need to review the possibility of terminating pre-contractual agreements in certain specific situations. Then, of course, there should be protection for the person who will build the property, so that you know about how many apartments have been sold so that you do not stand with a right-of-occupancy association without members. I think it is important to review the rules on pre-contractual arrangements, so that there is an opportunity for the individual consumer to back out if there are substantial differences. I think that the Minister has given good answers to the questions and we have had a good dialogue. I'd be happy to continue the dialogue in the future. These issues are extremely important. I believe that the right-of-occupancy as such is also important for us in the future so that we can create more housing. We have a shortage of housing in Sweden.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-299	Mr. Old President! We are continuing to work on the proposals contained in the investigation. The last issue raised by Larry Söder – that it should be easier to terminate pre-contractual agreements – is not really a sharp proposal in the investigation. There are many other proposals regarding pre-contractual agreements, but if we are to tighten up this part, we simply need to go a little further. As I said, the investigation contains a number of suggestions. We look at them, but we believe that in some respects we need to go beyond what the investigation has landed in. When we ourselves have begun to land in our own positions, I hope that we can have the dialogue that Larry Söder is also calling for. As regards the second part – strengthening minority protection – we hope that we will be able to come to Parliament in the spring with a legislative proposal. It is both a question of minority protection so that you can go directly to the Swedish Companies Registration Office for a special review and about stronger suitability requirements for those who will become special reviewers in these cases. This is at least one way of making it a little more difficult for rogue operators to enter the market. We want this market to be characterised by serious players, as it has traditionally done. Then it is important to make sure that you can access various rogue arrangements. Thank you again for the debate. Let us keep the dialogue open!
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-304	Mr. Old President! Hans Eklind has asked me how the government ensures that the Migration Agency lives up to the addition made in the regulation letter of 14 March concerning the right of asylum where religious opinion is invoked. As Hans Eklind points out, an addition was made to the Migration Agency's regulation letter for 2019 to ensure legal quality and uniform application in asylum cases where religious opinion is invoked. The Finnish Immigration Service's reporting on this issue will be included in the Authority's annual report, which will be submitted to the Government in February 2020. Once this report is submitted, the Government will assess how well the requirements of the regulation letter are met. According to the Government's instructions to the Migration Agency, the authority's decision-making process must maintain a high legal quality and be predictable and uniform. The Migration Agency's administrators and decision-makers receive regular training in investigation methods and how to make legally secure assessments in asylum matters. Furthermore, the agency's continuous work with quality monitoring is an important tool for detecting any deficiencies and for being able to take action if there is a need for it. I assume that this will also happen in cases where religious opinion is invoked.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-308	Mr. Old President! I would like to begin by thanking Minister for Migration Morgan Johansson for his reply. In my interpellation, I mention Markus. Jesuit priest Thomas Idergard, whom I came to know many years ago, had been teaching Markus for more than six months before he baptized him. Then, when Markus, who converted from his Shia Muslim faith to the Christian, came to the Migration Board to tell about this conversion, he met an officer who was a Sunni Muslim woman dressed in a veil. I reacted when I heard this from Thomas. This testifies in some way to a system error in the authority if one does not understand that Markus is inhibited in his account when he meets a Muslim administrator. It is a reasonable claim, because it is well known in Islam that there are those who believe that the person who leaves religion should be severely punished, in the worst case the death penalty. The Government added an addition to the regulation letter for the current year in response to the discussion that took place during the winter of 2018 on asylum matters in which religious opinion is invoked. In a large and very thorough report, called the Convertite Investigation, Swedish Christianity showed remarkable differences in the assessment of converts in different parts of the country. Therefore, when the Government entered on 14 March that the Authority should specifically account for – – – – how the Authority ensures legal quality and uniform application in asylum cases where religious perceptions are invoked, there was clearly a hope that an adjustment could now be read in the way the Authority dealt with these cases. Nevertheless, I would like to invite the Minister to a discussion on the issue in the interpellation, that is, how the Government ensures that the Migration Agency meets the addition made in the regulation letter of 14 March on asylum cases in which religious opinion is invoked. In the reply, the Minister refers to the annual report submitted in February next year. That may be a formal fact. But it also leads to a picture of the government sitting with its arms crossed just no matter what happens in the processes leading up to decisions on whether a conversion can be considered credible or not and whether or not a convert should be granted a residence permit. Is there nothing that can lead the Minister to act instead of waiting for the annual report and to discuss the authority and whether it can be considered as ensuring the legal quality and uniformity of application in asylum cases where religious opinion is invoked? That is my question here today.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-314	Mr. Old President! Let me first state that Sweden has one of the most legally secure asylum systems in the world. Not only do I say this, but it is the result of almost every evaluation carried out at international level, not least by the UNHCR. Sweden is often cited as a good example for other countries in terms of our asylum system as a country that lives up to the basic standards of legal certainty that one needs to have. We have the Migration Board that first makes its decision. After that, it is possible to appeal to a Migration Court for a new review. Some cases are also released to the Migration Court of Appeal. This is our order. There should always be at least two people handling these matters at the Migration Agency, first a case officer and then a decision-maker. So it is never a single person, but always two decision-makers. You also always have the right to legal counsel from the outset. Certainly not all countries have it in this way. I therefore argue that Sweden has a legally secure trial internationally. Hans Eklind invites you to talk about this particular situation. The question he is actually asking is: how can I be sure that this is legally certain if the administrator is a Muslim? Basically, this is what he is asking about. My question back is: Would he have asked the same question if the administrator had been a Christian and if there had been a cross around his neck? Would he have asked the same question if the administrator had been Jewish and if there had been a David star around his neck? I do not think that we should suspect administrators or employees of the Migration Agency in the way that this reasoning leads to. I would like to remind you that we do not just have to deal with issues of converts. There are also so-called apostates, that is, people who simply drop out of their religion without joining any new religion. There are atheists asking for protection and asylum for this very reason. The same kind of doubt could also be raised there. However, it is extremely important to point out that the Migration Agency and its staff handle these matters on the basis of current legislation and that they do so in a professional manner. Sweden has freedom of religion, and it does not only include Christians. It includes everyone, also a Muslim who works at the Migration Agency. It is important to mark. We cannot open the door to situations where we are going to treat certain religions differently when people work in different authorities, and I do not think that Hans Eklind is looking for that. When it comes to the processing of convertible matters, the Migration Agency carries out educational efforts on behalf of the Government, both on its own and in cooperation with the Christian Council of Sweden. I have great confidence in that process. These are difficult issues to deal with. There is a thematic quality monitoring of the investigation methodology in convertible matters. Despite the difficulties, I am convinced that the Migration Agency handles these matters professionally, regardless of the religious affiliation of the administrator in question.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-321	Mr. Old President! In February of this year, I presented a committee initiative on the rapid examination of the procedure for examining convertible, atheist and apostatised cases in order to ensure legal certainty. The claim that I have reacted because the administrator is Muslim is, in fact, directly rude. This committee initiative did not win the majority, so it did not happen. I regret that, because I still believe that it would have been good for all parties involved to have the approach highlighted and, if necessary, adjusted. It is an important process that is taking place. It is about, for example, what questions are asked and thus what focus is placed when investigating whether a conversion has taken place or not. This is a task that is anything but easy, not least in the light of the fact that there are those who argue that a conversion has taken place even if it has not done so, i.e. lying to the staff in the hope that this will enable them to obtain a basis of protection and therefore a residence permit. I would have said that the staff of the Migration Agency are facing an extremely difficult and sometimes impossible task when it comes to determining whether or not a conversion has taken place. As a Member of Parliament, I am now on leave of absence from my position as a priest and parishioner in the Swedish Church. So my job has been to work with faith and people who believe. I would argue that I and my colleagues are among the top experts on this with faith. I say it because it is a fact that what we say and what we tell is given a small or, in many cases, no value at all in the work that the authority does on whether or not a conversion has taken place. Even as a priest, I was surprised that this is the case, and I am still a Member of Parliament. We have something very important to contribute. A conversion is not an easy-going process, but something that goes on for some time. The question has to be asked: Are administrators better than priests and pastors at deciding whether a conversion has taken place or not? I think that question is quite reasonable. Recently, just a few weeks ago, a convert was asked the following question: If the Christian god is so almighty, why do your fellow countrymen suffer so during war and misery? This is called in theology theodicé problem. If Gud is so good, why is the world so bad? Interestingly, it has been present in Christendom all over the world since Christendom began. The issue has been grappled with for thousands of years. As a priest student, I myself spent a number of lunches discussing this with my fellow priests. We have not been able to find a complete answer. It is almost tempting to ask if the Minister can not ensure that the Migration Agency sends the answer to the universities in Lund, Uppsala and so on, so that they get the answer to this question that Christendom is struggling with. Another question during the same conversation was: What are the souls of all Muslims who are dead today? As I read about this, I am amazed as a priest and a Christian, despite my degree. Christian faith is a relationshipal thing. It is not knowledge-based. These questions, I think, show that it has not been understood what it means to believe, for example as a Christian, as in this case. Sweden has one of the world's most legally secure systems, says the Minister. Yes, but it's still possible to do better, isn't it? I hope the Minister will agree with that.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-328	Mr. Old President! It is sad if Mr Eklind thinks I am rude, but we have this debate because Hans Eklind has formulated an interpellation issue based on the situation he described in his first speech, that is to say, a convert meets an officer who is a Muslim. As I understand it, Hans Eklind is spreading distrust. He wonders if the convert can get a legal hearing in that handling. I say the answer is yes. Of course he'll get it. I am not going to go into any kind of speculation and spread mistrust about the Migration Agency's staff. They have exactly the same freedom of religion as everyone else. The intervention is not about what Hans Eklind now says he did this spring, but it is about this particular situation. Then my counter-question to Hans Eklind is: Does he experience that it is a problem that there are people with different beliefs who work at the Migration Agency? That is what he suggests in his question. Does he feel that this is a problem, and if so, does he want to do something about it? Hans Eklind then raises questions that have been put to a convert. Of course, we will not break the theodicé problem in Parliament or at the Migration Agency. It has not been possible to do that in thousands of years. On the other hand, one can always discuss the problem of theodicé. I suppose these questions are about to be discussed as a convert. But I'm not the one who controls the exact questions to be asked. In some way, however, the Migration Agency must be able to investigate the circumstances surrounding the conversion. That is what makes this issue so difficult. I would like to point out that the Migration Board and the Church of Sweden have a cooperation on this. The information I have is that this cooperation is good and fruitful. These are very difficult errands. They may be among the most difficult things the Migration Agency can do. But it is a matter of trying to ensure that you continue to feel that you have a safe handling of your cases.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-333	Mr. Old President! The Minister persists in highlighting this, but what I clearly write and say is that the convert was inhibited in his account, in his story. The counter question is: does the Minister mean that this has not been the case? I think, of course, that it is definitely a problem if those who have converted or who have to account for an apostatized or atheistic situation are inhibited. This problem should be avoided by the authority, in this case the Migration Agency, to the extent possible. This morning I had the opportunity to listen to Minister for Employment Eva Nordmark on morning television. She told us that the government is now going to give the agency the task of strengthening the local presence. Eva Nordmark showed in the interview that I took note of that it is possible to act against the authority. I think it is important for the Minister and the Government to show that this issue is being taken very seriously. After the court ruled that six imams pose a threat to national security, which was also discussed earlier this morning in this House, they have now been released at large. The reason is that they cannot be deported to their home country. This is, of course, very interesting for those who are working on precisely the conversion issues. It shows converts, people in whom so much is apparently believed, urging them to go to the mosque from time to time or not to show their Christian faith. Apparently, it has been understood that there is a risk of persecution for a convert. I can't help quoting from a leader published by Today's Industry this week.When the Swedish Tax Agency discovers a flaw in the system, there seems to be a direct channel to the Ministry of Finance that immediately clogs the hole. My wish is that such a direct channel should also be here, when we see that the system has shortcomings.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-337	Mr. Old President! It is not I who insist on this, but this is the very starting point of the interpellation. This is exactly the case that Hans Eklind raises and wants to discuss. Then I guess I'll have to have an opinion on it. My view is that the government should not say to the authority: you must not have any Muslim employees. I will never take that initiative. We have freedom of religion in Sweden. It's about the people who work at the Migration Agency and all of us. That is an important starting point to establish. It doesn't matter what faith you have when you work at the Migration Agency or any other authority. In one's professional role, one should behave and handle all matters in a professional and factual manner. We also have different security levels that strike. We have the handlers at the Migration Agency. We have the decision-makers, there are always at least two. We have appeal possibilities to the Migration Court, and we have since the Migration Court on top of it. I would say that this is one of the most legally secure processes in the world. Then for some reason Hans Eklind wants to confuse this with other expulsion issues. We as a country are also subject to the European Convention. This means, for example, that we cannot expel people who are at risk of death, persecution or torture. This applies to all countries that are members of the Council of Europe as a result of the European Convention. As Minister of Justice, I do not intend to stand here and compromise that regulatory framework. Nevertheless, it is the person seeking asylum who should show that it has a need for protection. If you can't show it, you'll just get rejected. Then you must return to your home country if you can do so and do not risk persecution, torture and the death penalty. That is the rule of law.
i-Tr4oJpFpPx16hhcRAL9W5D	Mr. Old President! Ali Esbati has asked the Minister for Labour if she would like to take any initiative to initiate a review or investigation to identify the working environment and working conditions of employees at Samhall using appropriate methodology. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Government sees Samhall as an important and well-functioning tool for people with disabilities who are outside the labour market and who cannot get other work or support through other efforts to be able to get a job. I share Ali Esbati's view that since its inception Samhall has played an important role for many people with different types of disabilities and for active labour market policies. As regards the working environment, we have high expectations of the state-owned companies that they will act exemplaryly. This obviously includes a healthy and safe working environment, as well as good and decent working conditions. During 2018 and 2019 Samhall conducted a strengthened collaboration with the trade unions. Samhall carries out systematic work environment work at all workplaces, which includes examining the work environment, detecting risks at work and correcting shortcomings. I assume, of course, that the company complies with laws and regulations regarding a good working environment and good working conditions. If there are parts in the business that need to be improved taking into account the work environment, it is of course important that it is taken up and addressed further. It is in my role to follow the activities and through an active dialogue with Samhall to clarify the expectations of the government. I will continue to do so.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-346	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs, for your answer. I have to say, unfortunately, that I am a little disappointed that the answer is, unfortunately, so soulless and nonsensical. One could sum up the Minister's rather short answer even a little shorter. It is that the government's answer to the fact that there are things that work badly is that the government believes that it is better if things work well. It is assumed that this is the case, because it has been stated that this is the way it should be. Of course I agree that it's better if it's good than if it's bad. But it is not a very powerful or, for that matter, sympathetic and reasoning reaction on the part of the government. My interpellation on this subject is not confrontative or polemic. I have asked questions because it is our job as elected representatives to follow the activities for which society has a responsibility. This places additional demands on the entire community organisation to care about and follow up the activities where people in the starting point are in a rather vulnerable position. That's often the way it is at Samhall. Samhall, as we agreed, carries out a very important activity in some places. However, those who need that support and are present in that activity do not always have the highest votes in the public debate. I have not claimed, nor am I now claiming, that I am sitting with all the information about what is happening at Samhall. I presented several examples and concerns relating to this important part of Swedish active labour market policy. There is no concrete reflection on those questions in the Minister's reply. Since they were not referred to in the answer, I will say that it is, for example, about a series of articles that have been in the Fastighetsfolk newspaper. There you talk about the business in Köping as an example. There are tight staff spaces and lack of showers and rest rooms. It was then arranged, but only after the safety representatives notified it according to what is called the 6:6a notification in the Work Environment Act with threats of penalty payments. These have been examples from Kalmar where people have been found to have worked in a laundry under very warm conditions. It has been up to 39 – 40 degrees, and without separate shower room. You have eaten in the heat, and there has been smell from dirty washing and feces in the room where you are going to eat. These are things that have been highlighted. One thing that has also been highlighted in the articles and that I have experienced when I have been out and met people in Samhall's business is that although there are people who are very satisfied and very happy about their situation, those who are not very often afraid to say nothing at all. They're afraid they're going to be punished by redeployment in a bad way. They can get rid of the security they have. The Minister does not respond to that at all. That is if there are other things to do to prevent this situation from arising. It is a question of the people who have a difficult starting point when they do not dare to speak up being given a voice in the business.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-355	Mr. Old President! To avoid polemizing, I have to say that it was a very polemical speech on an issue in which I am fairly certain, Mr President-in-Office, that we are in complete agreement. As both a former trade union and a former regional safety representative, I can see that this type of issue is extremely central. That's exactly what Ali Esbati says. This also applies to people who have disabilities of different kinds and who are often very happy to have a job to go to with everything it means for self-esteem, livelihood and more. It's something you're protecting and caring for. Mr. Old President! This does not mean that they will have to live under any circumstances other than the laws and regulations on working conditions that the rest of us have. We are in complete agreement on this. Samhall currently has 25 000 employees and operates at over 13 000 workplaces. I think we fully agree that they are making an extremely valuable contribution both to the people involved and to our society. There has been evidence of shortcomings. The honourable Member is fully aware that, as a minister, I should not comment on individual cases. Nevertheless, I can see that in the cases mentioned in the media, measures have also been taken. That's good. After a dialogue with the government, systematic reviews have also been carried out with the trade union representatives to review the working environment and what further measures need to be taken. I think that is extremely central. Although the results of the reviews show that progress is moving in the right direction, it does not mean that one should settle down, but vice versa. As the government responsible for ownership coordination, I will continue to follow up on these kinds of issues. Why? Because it's very important to the people it's about. It is clear as a sausage pad that one should not have to put up with the type of work environment that has been described in the media and that has been mentioned here. This applies to people at all in our country and very much to Samhall employees. It is also, of course, a matter of safeguarding and developing activities, because this is an extremely important activity. This is particularly true of a labour market where disability makes it far too difficult for people to enter the labour market today. It is against this background that the government has taken a number of other measures, such as increasing support via wage subsidies. Mr. Old President! I do not think there is any reason for polemics in this. I feel strongly about these kinds of questions. I have worked with them for a number of years both in terms of work environment and trade unionism, and I know that there may be shortcomings. It is therefore important to have systems in place to deal with these rapidly. Of course, Ali Esbati, we should do our utmost to make people feel that they can say the word without having to hit your job opportunities. This is an important part, where we require the government portfolio to be exemplary. You're supposed to be working on these kind of questions. My picture is that it is now also really doing this. Does this mean that there are no shortcomings? No, I don't think so. Unfortunately, in 13 000 jobs with 25 000 employees there will also be shortcomings in the future. However, it should be ensured that they are rectified as soon as possible and that it is also done in such a way that employees feel that they can either contact their trade union representative or the employer at any time and have the problem resolved.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-365	Mr. Old President! What I meant by the polemic was not the questions of the interpellation that I sent to the government. But I became somewhat more polemic because I thought the answer was so empty of content, at least the written answer that was first read by the Minister. I think it is important that the government acts to a greater extent than it has done. I would like to emphasise that in my question and in the discussion I have not called for the Minister to go in and resolve individual health and safety problems in workplaces around Sweden in some way. What I called for in my question was some kind of initiative for a review or investigation to map the working environment and working conditions of employees at Samhall with the appropriate methodology. The reason I formulated myself in this way is that I have highlighted the issues several times in the past, and when I have been in contact with Samhall and the management there, it is referred to that various employee surveys show good figures. However, there is reason not only to rely on such studies, precisely because the methodology can play a major role in the results obtained. It is about whether people dare, want or are able to express the criticism that they have and that in other ways can be captured. Sometimes it has also been caught up by good safety representatives, and that is something that we obviously agree on is good. I will come back to the questions a little more concretely. The Minister's response points out that Samhall carried out an enhanced cooperation with trade unions in 2018 and 2019. That sounds great, but I haven't heard anything from the trade unions. Nor have I noticed any signals – at least none that I have been able to perceive – from the people I am in contact with within this system that this has produced any clear results. I think there is a problem with this. Good things are done at the top level and at the management level. You agree on good stuff. But then comes the harsh reality. And perhaps the harsh reality is that you have chosen a path where, for example, there is a lot of business dealing with procured cleaning services that are not suitable for everyone. It may suit some excellent, but not all. Then there will be a pressure put on middle managers who have irreconcilable goals to work with, and it can go out on the Samhall employees. What I am asking for is: is there any intention to work towards strengthening cooperation with the trade unions? Should you hear more closely from the government with the trade unions what they have come up with and what they are proposing? That is something I would like to have a comment on. The Minister is talking about an active dialogue. It would be interesting to hear what the results of this active dialogue have been at the department. Nor do I hear anything concrete about this on the part of the Minister.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-373	Mr. Old President! It became clear that there is a great deal of consensus. This applies to the business but also to the important thing in monitoring the work environment. Although it is, of course, more complicated in a business of 13 000 jobs and 25 000 employees, it is not something to be confused about. What does this mean? We have continuous dialogue with the company. In my role as Minister of Economic Affairs, I very much defend the continuous dialogue with the trade union partners that one has. This is for a very simple reason, namely exactly what Ali Esbati mentions: sometimes you get a different picture and a different perspective. It is important that you as a representative in this case for the owner have the whole picture when, for example, you should make any change. What have these dialogues brought about? They have led to a number of measures being taken. Does that mean everything's perfect? No, I'm afraid it's not. I've been around long enough to know that you should never be fooled into thinking that a business is perfect. There will always be changes, and there will always be new problems. However, what we are seeing – and I do not think that Ali Esbati should underestimate – is still a certain positive trend in terms of both the psychosocial environment and the working environment and health. Then it is important that you hold on to this and continue to work on it. You're supposed to fix the cases that come up where this doesn't work, because that's what you're supposed to do. What does it mean when I talk about this? Of course, when there are examples where it does not correspond with the objectives, laws and regulations we have, we take it up and go through it with management for a very simple reason: We have very high demands that government activities should act as an example. This is about sustainability, and I am talking about sustainability based on the environment, the working environment and the social. But this also applies to the long-termness of how to handle your employees. It is about what Ali Esbati says about the fact that you can sometimes end up in a situation that is almost impossible. Then one should consider how such an activity will change. We have this type of dialogue continuously with the companies and companies in the government portfolio. We will, of course, follow up on this. Let me be personal for a moment: I think this is one of the most important activities we have. The reason is very simple, namely that we have a labour market that increasingly does not tolerate the fact that one cannot go for 100, sometimes even over 100, %. This makes Samhall's activities particularly important, and it becomes even more important that it is done under conditions that you can proudly stand up for. There is no doubt that Ali Esbati and I are in complete agreement here. We will follow up on this and try to do our utmost to ensure that developments continue. Does that mean that there will never be any flaws? No. That's not how reality works. I think Ali Esbati knows that too.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-382	Mr. Old President! There is a great deal of consensus in this, I am sure. The Minister mentioned earlier the increase in wage subsidies. It was, of course, the result of a concrete consensus during the last parliamentary term in the budget cooperation with the Left Party. What I have noted when I have been following these questions for a number of years is that it is easy to reach consensus once the questions are asked, because this is worthy and good. Often, however, it is a matter of paying any attention to the existence of these activities and the existence and requirements of these people. If you look in media archives, for example, you can see that the times that these issues are addressed it is often the trade press that lifts them up. Otherwise Samhall often occurs in discussions about what procurement systems and such things should look like. It is not an unimportant issue, but the conditions for the people who work need to be in focus both for Samhall and for the government, who has a responsibility. When I have spoken publicly about Samhall, I have often, even now in this case, been contacted by Samhall's leadership, who invited for dialogue and discussion. I'm meeting people at Samhall, and I think that's good. I'd love to. However, I would like much more attention to be paid to the side dealing with workers and workers' organisations in public and political discussions. It brings me back to my first question. I believe that greater sensitivity and methodology need to be developed from the powers in order to achieve the real tasks and the real situation at Samhall.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-387	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Ali Esbati, for a very urgent question! I believe, as I said, that we are basically in complete agreement on the approach to Samhall's activities and that employees, like all other employees, should have the right to a good working environment. The fact that there are sometimes shortcomings in an activity of 13 000 workplaces and 25 000 people is quite clear, but when such tasks exist, it is very important that they are rectified and that, together with the trade union representatives, measures are taken to prevent such events or working environments. We fully agree on this, and we will continue to do so. It is very important, both to protect the business and to very much also to safeguard the employees' opportunity for their own livelihood and a good working environment. So we continue, and we must do our utmost to make this even better than it is.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-389	Mr. Old President! Vasiliki Tsouplaki has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that the non-profit players in the gaming market continue to be able to carry out lottery and bingo on the basis of their particular circumstances. She also asks how I work to ensure the independent funding of civil society. Getting a license on the Swedish gaming market is accompanied by high demands. The new gaming law has come into being to increase the protection of Swedish consumers in the gaming market. This requires some effort from the actors, both to understand the requirements of the law and to ensure the functionality of the equipment used. It is important to ensure that the business lives up to the high level of consumer protection that we have in the new rules of the game. The Government agrees with the Riksdag that a key objective of gaming policy should be to provide good conditions for public service activities to obtain funding through revenue from gaming. The new gaming law allows continued tax exemption for, among other things, utility lotteries, both land-based and online, as well as land-based bingo. In order to ensure that the technical equipment requirements for the public benefit lotteries are adapted to the games referred to in Chapter 6. The Swedish Gambling Act intends to review current technical requirements that apply to these. The Authority informed operators accordingly. It has been the government's starting point that the new Gaming Act does not change the conditions for financing public benefit purposes. The Government will continue to monitor and continuously evaluate that the non-profit actors can continue to conduct games for public benefit purposes on the basis of given conditions to help ensure the independent funding of civil society.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-396	Mr. Old President! I thank the Minister for his reply. The background to my question about the conditions for association-run bingo halls and utility lotteries is the changed regulatory framework that has come up with the new gaming legislation. When the investigation of the gambling market and the proposal for a reregulated gambling market came, a clear intention was that this part of the gambling market would not be adversely affected by regulatory changes. The primary aim was to regulate online casinos, which operate from other EU countries in violation of Swedish legislation. The idea was that the gambling market would be divided into three parts, where operators with public benefit purposes would continue to have exclusive rights in lottery activities and physical bingo. These elements would not be adversely affected by the licensing system, but most could continue as usual. There was broad agreement on this here in Parliament. However, I am concerned, because this does not seem to have been the case. The lotteries and machines that have previously been checked and approved by the Swedish Lotteries Inspectorate will now undergo international certification processes that are very costly. The public benefit lottery operators testify to licensing applications costing SEK 1 – 8 million to implement and covering all players with a turnover of more than SEK 5 million. Only the translation of thousands of pages costs large sums of money. This will, of course, be a completely unreasonable cost burden for small operators. The new regulations for bingo halls mean that 46 out of 61 halls can be forced to close at the turn of the year. It has been read about in the media. This means 60 million in less income for the association and 350 people who lose their employment. Unfortunately, Minister Shekarabi response does not affect the real situation of the public interest players. He makes a little vague reference to the need for all actors to familiarise themselves with the new legislation and to ensure functionality. Of course it is, but what should this functionality look like? What are the technical requirements? What I have been able to read to has not revealed any major security risks in the lotteries. There is very little gambling abuse due to lottery purchases. My idea is why this part of the gaming market should be subject to these new, tough and expensive regulations. Why fix something that hasn't been broken, is the question that comes to mind with me.
i-MUyZkpnUAG1S6wc14WdeCz	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Vasiliki Tsouplaki, for the important contribution! We fully agree that we should stick to the intentions and purposes of gaming legislation that were stated in the Government proposal and that the Riksdag supports the re-regulation of the gaming market. This means that it is our duty to ensure that civil society continues to have a chance to have good revenue from lottery activities to precisely public utility activities. The new gaming law has also come into being to increase the protection of Swedish consumers in the gaming market. Then we must find the right balance in the regulatory framework. It has been the intention of the government and the parliament for the re-regulation. The Swedish Gaming Authority has just announced that they have assessed that exceptions to technical requirements for these lotteries, which we are talking about under certain conditions, can be granted for a two-year period in order for the operations to be adapted to the Authority's regulations. The Swedish Gaming Authority has thus assessed that it can provide lotteries with a turnover below SEK 50 million per year and so-called hallbingo exemption from certification requirements over a two-year period. However, one condition is that the equipment remains unchanged in relation to the type-approval granted during the licence period. At the same time, the Inspectorate of Games has also announced that it intends to revise the current regulations to adapt them, if possible, to the gaming activities of the public benefit lotteries. The Inspectorate of Games has announced that an individual review will be carried out so that the respective operator is notified of decisions relating to conditions relevant to the gaming activity in question. The fact that the gambling market has players with widely differing conditions is, of course, a challenge both for the legislator and for those who apply the legislation and issue regulations, i.e. the authority. However, the Inspectorate of Games may issue regulations on the technical requirements and certification that are adapted to the public benefit lotteries. We have also been very careful to maintain the tax exemption for these players in terms of revenue from lottery activities. Mr. Old President! The question raised by Vasiliki Tsouplaki is very relevant. We're following developments. I am pleased that the Swedish Gaming Authority has announced that it will grant lotteries with a turnover below SEK 50 million per year and hallbingo exceptions to certification over a two-year period. During that period, the Authority is able to lay down rules adapted to the reality of these operators. It is of the utmost importance for us that gaming legislation gives the non-profit players the opportunity to have good revenue from lottery activities. We have no intention of going beyond that objective of the reform, but we will continue to monitor developments and ensure that the non-profit players can conduct lottery activities in a good way.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-410	Mr. Old President! This is really good news! They did not appear in the Minister's reply, and I have searched the Gaming Inspectorate's website to find information. I know they had a meeting last week, and I made sure that my interpellation came in before that meeting, because we need to put some pressure on this. This is a discussion that has been conducted a little in silence. There has been a lot of media focus on the online casinos that have been trying to find loopholes. I and the Minister have debated this in this House in the past, and we have spoken in the Committee on Culture about how to access online casinos and protect consumers. The activities of the lotteries and bingo halls have been somewhat obscured and they have struggled in the quiet. When it came to my knowledge that these major problems persisted in November when the old conditions soon expire, I was very concerned. I understand that there was a dialogue with the Ministry and with the Inspectorate of Games throughout the spring to point these things out. Among other things, they wanted derogations and wanted to raise the turnover limit to 50 million, and they wanted to revise the technical requirements. Now I hear from the Minister that this has actually become a reality, and that is very positive news. On the other hand, I find it problematic that they come so late. This has been pointed out by associations throughout the spring, and many have struggled with their certification processes and already spent millions on this. It will be wrong for the associations that have had these processes, made their ISO certifications and spent the money. I think the Minister understands what I'm after. I have been worried that the seriousness of the situation has not been fully understood, and I feel that the Swedish peoples' movements, which have run many of these lotteries, are a strong part of our democracy. In fact, they have contributed to the emergence of our modern democracy. Today we have a very strong association life that creates added value for millions of members. It is about social community, public health and education. A strong association democracy is the foundation of our governance. This is where many members learn to set a common agenda, conduct association activities and make joint decisions. These associations are also voice carriers for their members. They can influence public opinion, push their questions and are important referrals to our political decisions. I think it is very important that society should be able to be financially independent from the state power. It is an important parameter for our democracy to work. A critical voice must be able to stand free and not be constantly worried about getting rid of state or municipal subsidies. That is the background to the fact that I have really taken this issue seriously. We know that the lotteries contribute close to 1.8 billion each year to our association life. This is therefore an important source of income that guarantees both activity and independence. I am the first to agree on the importance of responsible gaming and the importance of everyone in the Swedish gaming market working hard to protect consumers. But it is actually the case, as I mentioned in my first speech, that the risks are low. This is about a completely different type of activity from that which the Minister has debated a lot and on which we are all agreed is to be regulated very hard.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-417	Mr. Old President! Vasiliki Tsouplaki is right. That's exactly how it is. As far as consumer protection rules are concerned, we should have the same regulatory framework. We have, and we agreed on that between the government and the parliament. But, of course, with regard to other parts of gambling legislation, the reality of the legislation must also be adapted to the reality of the non-profit-making community. Against this background, the Government and the Parliament chose to retain the tax exemption, and against this background we have also given the Swedish Gaming Authority the opportunity to communicate the regulations on the technical requirements adapted to the conditions and reality of the operators. We will follow this closely. What has happened is that the Swedish Gaming Authority has, under certain conditions, given a two-year period to the actors, and in the meantime the inspection will work on the issues relating to the regulations relating to technical specifications. For us, it is very important to follow this trend and ensure that the non-profit players have good opportunities to have revenue from lottery activities. It is just as Vasiliki Tsouplaki says that without civil society, without the non-profit actors, we will have a weaker society and a weaker democracy. One of the shortcomings, I would say, in our society over the last few decades is that there has been a lot of focus on the public and the private and commercial. But we do have a third sector in our society, civil society, associations, peoples' movements, sobriety movements, communities. They are institutions that create community and cohesion in our society. They do not follow commercial logic and they do not follow public logic, but they have their own logic. This House and the government must recognise the need for autonomy and recognition of the logic of the non-profit sector. This area, the gambling legislation, is an important area because it affects the revenues of non-profit organisations. We have reason to monitor these issues, Mr. Old President. We must also be honest and say that these players do not have the same resourceful lobbying as other players. It is therefore our duty to give a voice to those players and to ensure that this House and the government closely monitor the issues that affect the conditions for non-profit activities.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-421	Mr. Old President! There are a number of demands for changes that I have seen from the public lottery. I hear from the minister that the Inspectorate of Games has looked at some of them. I would like to highlight a third point which I regard as important. This applies to the certification system itself and precisely the lack of a Swedish institution, authority or company that can certify according to the ISO standards that have been required. It has somehow become really complicated. It is not about a rapid change, but you need to look further at that it will be possible to get a Swedish certification. According to the system we had previously it was the Lottery Inspectorate who went out on site and inspected lottery tickets and machines. It worked very well, with no attention being paid to safety deficiencies. It has been seen as a positive system. I am one of those who have appreciated the Minister's determination to bring order to the casino companies that have been on the Swedish market without authorisation. We have not always agreed on the methods. However, I believe that we can continue to help each other both on this front and when it comes to drawing attention to the public-interest lotteries and bingo activities, so that the special conditions will be given more attention in the future. I think we can agree that a strong and independent association life brings benefits, joy and community to its members and that the associations are involved in building a strong, democratic society in which everyone can sit.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-426	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank Vasiliki Tsouplaki for this important interpellation. It pleases me. This debate is needed. The last question by Vasiliki Tsouplakis concerned the conditions for certification. That is a question we are also looking at. All the different parts of the regulations and the technical and operational conditions for lottery activities affect the whole sector. We are determined to continue working on the issue, to follow developments and to take action on the part of the Government and the Riksdag where necessary.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-428	Mr. Old President! Magnus Jacobsson has asked me what the government is doing to speed up the expansion, so that the goal of good mobile coverage throughout the country can be met. According to the January agreement, the digital infrastructure will be extended throughout the country. Among other things, it states that by 2023 everyone should have access to stable, high-quality mobile services where they are normally located. The goal of mobile coverage is formulated based on people's needs and behaviours, which change over time. The goal is thus mobile. Access to broadband via mobile networks remains very good. According to the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, 99.99 per cent of all households and companies had such access on 1 October 2018. In October 2018, 85 per cent of Sweden's surface area was covered by networks that can deliver 10 mega bits per s ekund. In 2014, the corresponding proportion was just under 61 per cent. It can be noted that there has been an increase of about 40 percent from 2014 to 2018. According to PTS's forecast, we will reach between approximately 88 per cent and approximately 93 per cent coverage by 2023, depending on assumptions regarding, among other things, continued expansion. In December 2018, PTS took an award decision on the 700-megahertz band. One of the permits is linked to a requirement for coverage and deployment, in order to achieve better mobile coverage in sparsely populated areas. Telia shall use an amount of SEK 300 million to meet the coverage and roll-out requirement set out in the award decision. More specifically, this means that Telia must establish masts and base stations to cover parts of so-called priority areas. However, the coverage requirement is not sufficient to cover all these surfaces, and Telia can choose which of the priority areas it intends to cover through the coverage requirement. The Government's vision is a fully connected Sweden, as it creates the conditions for living and operating throughout the country. The Government is therefore proposing a new support for the roll-out of broadband infrastructure with SEK 650 million for the period 2020 – 2022. As a basis for the assessment, PTS has been given the task of concreting what such support could look like by January 2020 at the latest, based on its previously presented proposal. The Government intends to come back with how the support will be designed.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-434	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I highlight the issue because there was a report about and was highlighted in the media that there is not enough time for the roll-out of mobile coverage in the way that was planned. This is a big and important question for me. In Sweden today we have a feeling, right or wrong, that there is a difference between city and country. This is, of course, linked to issues such as fuel taxation, public transport, the reduction of flights in sparsely populated areas and the supply of personnel, i.e. the possibility of obtaining staff. Rural areas have higher taxes than many urban areas around the major cities, and we see that the presence of police, employment services and insurance funds is decreasing in rural areas. Many times we politicians, regardless of colour, have said that some of the important solutions for rural areas are broadband and mobile coverage for business to have good conditions. But there is also a clear difference in this area. The city, urban area and important stretches have a high level of coverage, while the lower the coverage the longer the system comes out in terms of infrastructure. In the radio programme that highlighted this particular issue and the report from PTS, several from rural areas pointed out that their ability to conduct business would be weakened if the mobile system did not work. Then my question remains as to what more the government intends to do to get to the problems and pursue all the way.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-439	Mr. Old President! As I explained in my reply, we have good hopes of achieving the objective of broadband roll-out and mobile coverage. Mobile coverage for people is therefore at 99,99 %. I believe that the current figure for the broadband target is 86%, according to the measure known as home-passed, that is, the European Union's measure. This means that Sweden has the best mobile and mobile data coverage throughout the European Union and the developed world. But we're not happy with that. As Magnus Jacobsson rightly points out, we have set higher targets than that. The measures we have taken and the discussion we have means that we are also well placed to achieve that objective. We have the rather pleasant problem that the way in which the goal is formulated makes it partly mobile matter. We are therefore waiting for the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency to specify more clearly how the target is to be measured. That is what will ultimately determine whether or not we will achieve the objective.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-442	Mr. Old President! I would like to say once again that I am grateful for the answer given by Anders Ygeman. I am also absolutely convinced that the Christian Democrats and the government agree that we want the whole country to live. However, I have the report with me in this House, and I do not really recognise some of the figures. I haven't been able to cave in why they differ a little. But if you look at, for example, the broadband side, it is 40 to 46 percent in rural areas that have functioning broadband. It depends a little on whether it concerns business or private individuals. Looking again at urban areas, we can see that it is around 85 - 86 percent. We see the same phenomenon in terms of mobile coverage, at least according to the report I have. Approximately 85 percent have mobile coverage. Then it's about roads, households, recreational areas and where you work. There are areas in Sweden where there is no coverage at all. One can in itself wonder if we need to have as much coverage there. What is connected is that it is unfortunately clear that we have managed to solve it in urban areas. But outside the urban area it looks significantly worse. The Swedish Post and Telecom Agency's report states, among other things, that most sites in sparsely populated areas are currently under-utilised and provide limited revenues to operators. PTS therefore considers that there is no likelihood of a comprehensive commercial start-up of sites in sparsely populated areas until 2023. ..................................................... I can understand that from the private industry's approach. Expanding and developing while not getting paid is a problem. However, we as a parliament and government still have to work to ensure that rural entrepreneurs also have good access to broadband and good mobile coverage – the main debate here is about mobile coverage – and then it is not really enough to achieve 85 per cent. We need to keep working on that question.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-449	Mr. Old President! Magnus Jacobsson and I fully agree that 85% is not enough. But that's what we had in October. The prognosis is different. It says between 88 and 93 percent. We want to raise a further 2 percentage points from that target. Our goal is clear: No matter where you live and work in Sweden, you should have good mobile coverage and access to fast broadband connectivity. Magnus Jacobsson says our numbers differ. This is particularly true on the broadband side. I think the difference is because I use the EU's figures, which are used to compare between different countries, and Magnus Jacobsson uses figures from PTS. The difference between the figures is due to PTS's figures referring to those who have actually joined broadband, while the EU's figures refer to those who are able to join. The difference is therefore made up of people who have access to broadband but who have chosen not to join. You might think it would be good if they joined broadband, and at least they have that possibility. There is no difference between city and country, for there are also some people in our big cities who have chosen not to join at all or to connect to broadband at a lower speed for various reasons. Mr. Old President! I can only say that I and Magnus Jacobsson seem to agree on the objectives, that is, where we are going. Perhaps there is a difference in the degree of optimism we show about how much capacity we have to achieve the goal within the proposed time. I am more optimistic than Magnus Jacobsson, but I can assure Magnus Jacobsson that if his slightly more pessimistic approach turns out to be the correct one, the government will also come back with further measures.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-453	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister Ygeman, for your answer! I'm just starting from what PTS says in its own report. They're signaling concern. Although we seem to agree that on the whole we reach out to many, there is a difference between town and country, and that is precisely the rural perspective I have chosen to highlight here. We have to reach all the way. Those of us who work with these issues see the entire technological development that is taking place now. We will in the future have refrigerators that talk to the net, cars that are self-driving and probably also, whether we like it or not, spring droids that help in the homes of those who are older. We see a completely different technological development. We see that people will live at home longer, and then they should have the certainty that their security alarm, which goes via either broadband or mobile broadband, works so that they do not get laid without the help they need. Not only must we reach 90 or 95 % of this, but everyone who lives and builds in Sweden must have this security. This is how technological development will look, both on the health and business sides and in fact also on the entertainment side. Thank you for the debate. If I don't see the government before Christmas, I wish him all the best.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-457	Mr. Old President! I am pleased that Magnus Jacobsson and I share the same view on the importance of fast communications throughout the country, whether they are mobile or fixed. I am also pleased that Magnus Jacobsson stands by the same high objectives that the government and parliament have set for these communications. I am convinced that if it turns out that my slightly more optimistic attitude is wrong, we will meet in further debates here in Parliament to ensure with common efforts that rural areas also have rapid connections. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish Magnus Jacobsson and Mr. Age President a really merry Christmas!
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-460	Mr. Old President! Margareta Cederfelt has asked me how the government works in contacts with other countries to anchor the Swedish line towards Russia and build consensus on human rights in Russia, what the government is doing in the EU to pressure the Russian leadership on these issues and whether the government is prepared to work within the EU for an investigation of the Nemtsov case. Sweden is pursuing a clear and principled policy towards Russia and will continue to regularly address human rights problems in international forums such as the OSSE and the Council of Europe. We will continue to be a driving force in the EU to ensure that respect for human rights remains a key element in shaping the relationship with Russia and to support the five guiding principles of the EU's relationship with Russia, where contacts and support to Russian civil society are an important component. Sweden also provides comprehensive support for contacts between Swedish and Russian civil society, which is important for supporting democratic development and contributing to greater respect for human rights. Oppositionists in Russia operate under difficult conditions, and it is important for the outside world to show their support. We continue to call on Russian representatives to guarantee the rights of their citizens in accordance with Russia's own constitution and international commitments. The murder of Boris Nemtsov was a tragic episode in modern Russian history that met with strong reactions in the outside world. It underlines the importance of a judicial system that acts professionally and independently and enjoys the confidence of its citizens. We are following developments in the case of Nemtsov closely through our embassy in Moscow and have joined the EU's calls for a thorough investigation. Sweden continues to pay attention to Nemtsov's work: the embassy in Moscow participates annually in a ceremony in his memory.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-464	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank the Minister for his reply to my interpellation. The reason why I raise human rights issues in Russia, about the possibility for oppositionists to operate and ultimately about repression and murders that have affected and affect oppositionists in Russia is that I feel that the situation in Russia is becoming increasingly difficult for those people who do not support the regime's line. This, of course, makes international work important. Sweden is a small country. We cannot achieve much on our own, but as a country in larger organisations we can push on. I say this because Russia is a great power. Sweden itself has little to resist, but the EU can do all the more. The OSSE can also use its base for democracy and human rights, as well as, of course, the Council of Europe. I am referring to this because I would like to see even more activity on the part of Sweden within these bodies. There are opportunities to do more. There are opportunities to put pressure on the Russian judiciary. It is excellent that the Embassy of Sweden is represented when it comes to commemorating Boris Nemtsov. But more needs to be done. I say this because I am appointed rapporteur on the murder of Boris Nemtsov by the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, its Parliamentary Assembly. What I have noted in these contexts is the need to press the judiciary. The justice system is quiet. The justice system is over. The justice system won't answer any questions. This means that there is no transparency. Here, the EU can do much to influence and push. There must be transparency. I say this because with greater transparency in the judiciary there can be an opportunity for civil society and for dissidents to pursue their issues with greater security. The murder of Boris Nemtsov on 27 February 2015 is appalling. It is the ultimate proof of the oppression of dissidents. But it's not just about Boris Nemtsov. There are many more people. Elena Grigorieva was a human rights and LGBTI activist who was murdered in July 2019. Video blogger Vadim Kharchenko Kharchenko subjected to gunfire and knife attack by unknown men to him. Boris Ushakov, project coordinator for Gulagu.net, was shot in March 2019 – he survived the attack. There are many more. These people deserve a judicial system that works. I would like a clearer answer from the Minister for Foreign Affairs on how Sweden acts and what Sweden intends to do to strengthen human rights in Russia.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-474	Mr. Old President! Boris Nemtsov was a friend of mine. We organised seminars on democracy in Russia together. After his tragic death, I have visited the scene of the murder to show my respect for his work. I have been following developments in Russia for a very long time and, like Margareta Cederfelt, I am keen that Russian society should develop and become more transparent and democratic. We are following the domestic policy developments in Russia closely, and we are consistently expressing our concern at the fact that the democratic space in that country is shrinking. We express outrage at the cases mentioned by Margareta Cederfelt and other cases. The run-up to the regional elections of 8 September was another example of how opposition politicians are denied opportunities to stand as candidates and how popular discontents are met with mass intervention and violence by the police. I myself publicly criticised the police raids that took place against oppositionists around Russia a few days after the elections. And we continue to call on Russian representatives to guarantee the rights of the inhabitants of Russia. It is in fact in accordance with the Russian Constitution and their international commitments. Our embassy has attended trials against democracy activists who followed the protests in July and August – this to mark the importance that Sweden attaches to the issue both before Russian civil society and before Russian authorities. In the last month, Russian and foreign human rights organisations have had to stop their work. The Russian Duma has adopted a proposal for legislation on so-called foreign agents, which will now also cover individuals. If the law passes through the remaining bodies, it will create additional obstacles for journalists to carry out their work. Mr. Old President! Already during my first week as Foreign Minister, I had the opportunity to meet both Nordic and Baltic colleagues in Reykjavik and Helsinki. In those talks, I referred to our well-known and unchanged positions on the human rights situation in Russia. We have regularly highlighted them in, for example, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and in the Council of Europe. Sweden was also one of the 16 countries that took the initiative in 2018 to activate within the OSSE the so-called Moscow Mechanism, which provides the opportunity to send an independent expert mission to an OSCE country if there is considered to be a particularly serious threat to the fulfilment of the commitment in terms of democracy and human rights. This was due to allegations of persecution of LGBT people in Chechnya. We continue to pay attention to the issue, for example through statements and side events in connection with HDIM. It is Europe's largest annual human rights conference, bringing together 1 500 government representatives, international experts and civil society representatives over two weeks. We are also acting within the Council of Europe to draw attention to shortcomings and violations in the area of human rights.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-481	Mr. Old President! Yes, the need for strong and joint action at EU level, within the OSSE and within the Council of Europe is quite clear. I say again: as rapporteur in the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly on the murder of Boris Nemtsov, I cannot say that I have received answers to some of the questions I have put to the Russian authorities. I have asked questions both to politicians at the highest level, as well as to the courts and the judiciary. There are no answers. Silence prevails. Everyone seems to be well aware of my mission, but there are no answers. It shows that the EU must use its muscles. I would like to hear more about this. There's a need for a power pool. I would like to mention here the former Moderate Member of Parliament, Mats Johansson, who, as early as 2013, published the book The Cold War 2.0– Russia is arming. Even then, Mats Johansson mentioned the increasingly difficult situation for human rights fighters, dissidents and journalists, as well as the murders that took place. It has been many years since 2013. There are now regular reports that the situation is further deteriorating. I would therefore like to hear more about the work carried out by the Swedish Government at European level. I cannot see that Sweden can do this alone. I cannot see that Sweden can only do so together with the Nordic and Baltic countries – I know that they are also working for human rights, especially our Baltic neighbours. Greater efforts are needed, and here Europe comes in. I would like to ask what the Foreign Minister has done to make it a more transparent legal system and to make the role of the security services in Russia clearer. It is also about making things clearer in a trial. Who does what? Who has what information? Who's asking what questions? What are the answers? Who's ordering the attacks? Where do the attacks on human rights activists come from? All of this is silent in the Russian judicial system. This, in turn, leads to ambiguities, ambiguities and fears. There is then no knowledge of who is behind this. Who's in charge? Who performs the deed? Who's indicted? Who is the verdict against and on what grounds? We are not talking about the principles of the rule of law; that is something quite different. The worst thing, if we are talking about Russia as such, is that we are not talking about the Lenin era or about the Stalin era. We're talking about 2019. It's Putin's Russia. I would like to see Sweden taking the lead when it comes to cooperation within the European Union and arming the Baltic countries, which I know is very interested in strengthening European cooperation in this area.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-489	Mr. Old President! I would like to start by saying that it is extremely good that Margareta Cederfelt, who is such a committed politician on these very issues, is leading this investigation in the OSSE. I hope that Sweden will be able to have the Presidency of the OSSE for 2021 – it is not decided yet, it will be decided definitively next week – and that together, both from the Parliamentary Assembly and from the Government, we can be even more proactive on this type of issue. As far as the EU is concerned, Sweden is a very strong driving force for human rights, and we will continue to push for it to be a given element in shaping the relationship with Russia and that clear messages will be communicated to Russia on these issues. Within the European Union, we have the five guiding principles of the EU's relationship with Russia. There, contacts and support to Russian civil society are one of the components. Not least in the light of what Margareta Cederfelt points out in her interpellation, we believe that this must be given more attention. The democratic space is now shrinking, and people are facing increasing problems in organising themselves in different ways in Russia. We have a very clear policy towards Russia. We will also address these problems in bilateral contacts. So we are doing so both bilaterally and in cooperation with other EU countries, something that Margareta Cederfelt mentions and which I also think is important. It is true that it will be much better results and a much firmer expression if we do so together with other EU countries. We are now renewing our Russia strategy for 2019 – 2024. We are planning to provide support of SEK 80 million, especially for this type of democracy and civil society activities. I visited Russia myself by June. I met various representatives of women's rights organisations, LGBTQ organisations and other organisations as well. Their work impressed me greatly. Unfortunately, in the Russian media, it was reported in a negative way that I had met these organisations because they are not considered positive for Russian society. Only last week, our Embassy in Moscow organized an event in which several Swedish MPs also participated. It was about violence against women and various problems that women's rights organisations and women have in Russia.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-495	Mr. Old President! First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. I take this as revenue because the Swedish Government will work towards strengthening support for human rights in Russia. In this context, I would like to say that SEK 80 million is a lot of money in Russia. There is a lot of money to act on, and that is why it is important to do the right things. I hope and expect that the government will work clearly and clearly without shaking the cufflink when it comes to what the money is to be used for and how it is to be followed up. Russia is notorious for its corruption, and not a crown may land wrong. I also expect strong work within the EU, and I will follow up on the fact that the government is also acting there, as well as within the OSSE, when Sweden is now holding the Presidency, even if I am not going to congratulate in advance. I hope, however, that this will happen. There is then an opportunity to explain, as the country holding the presidency, what Sweden intends to prioritise. On the basis of the interpellation that we have debated here and what the government is writing on its website, as well as the foreign policy declaration made by the government, I assume that democracy and human rights will be given priority and that it is also something that should be implemented in all the OSCE Member States, preferably in a sharp wording so that it is clear that Russia is the country that is being referred to.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-499	Mr. Old President! I can assure Margareta Cederfelt that we will be extremely careful where this money goes and that they really support civil society, human rights issues and so on. Nevertheless, I would like to conclude by once again addressing the murder of Boris Nemtsov, which was such a tragic milestone in Russian history. It also illustrates how impunity is entrenched in Russian society. As I mentioned, it was also painful for me personally because we were friends, and we continue to pay attention to his work. Among other things, the embassy now participates annually in a ceremony in his memory. The murder investigation and the legal process have been described by several international assessors. Now I also hear what Margareta Cederfelt is experiencing and that she does not get answers to her questions. The investigation is described as incomplete. We are following developments closely and have joined the EU's call for a thorough investigation. No political rule or society can accept the silence of opposition voices, be it for fear of reprisals or by the price that Nemtsov paid for exercising the right to speak freely that he would have had. Thank you, Margareta Cederfelt, for raising these very important questions.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-504	Mr. Old President! Håkan Svenneling has asked me whether I intend to work to increase Sweden's commitment to Latin America, what I intend to do to reduce inequality in Latin America and how the government intends to implement its democracy offensive in Latin America in order to strengthen civil society and democracy. Sweden has excellent relations with Latin America. The links between our peoples and governments are strong, and Sweden's confidence capital in the region is great – not least thanks to our longstanding commitment and support for freedom, democracy and respect for human rights. Many countries in Latin America face major societal challenges. There is a great need to increase investment in infrastructure, education and health care, improve legal certainty, improve the efficiency of public administration and combat social and economic inequalities. Sweden appears in many countries in the region as an attractive partner and a model for a sustainable, equal and equal welfare society. In addition, Sweden faces similar challenges as many countries in Latin America, including in terms of inclusive growth and employment, and could draw useful lessons from an in-depth and broader dialogue with the region. In addition, the countries of the region have become increasingly important players on the international stage, and many are like-minded with Sweden on key issues for us, such as the need to curb climate change, strengthen multilateral cooperation and defend the rule-based world order. For these reasons, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has begun work to intensify relations with Latin America and the Caribbean, resulting in a development plan for relations with Latin America and the Caribbean. The Action Plan sets out a framework for how relations can develop and includes issues such as the environment, climate, democracy and gender equality. Through the Action Plan, the government has taken further steps to develop relations with the countries of the region, both bilaterally and in multilateral contexts. In addition, as a result of the government's increased commitment to Latin America, roadmaps have been signed for bilateral cooperation with Argentina, Colombia, Mexico, Peru and Uruguay, and recent political dialogues have started with Argentina, Brazil, Chile, El Salvador, Cuba, Peru and Uruguay. The Swedish Embassy in Peru reopened in 2016. Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Paraguay and Uruguay have joined the Global Deal concept for strengthening social dialogue between the social partners. Development cooperation also contributes to developing the government's relations with the countries of the region, as well as the joint work on the implementation of the Paris Agreement and Agenda 2030. In 2020, the government will develop new development cooperation strategies in Latin America to help meet the region's societal challenges. Sweden also participates regularly with observers in EU election observation efforts in Latin America, and in 2019 the government has decided to increase the opportunities for Swedish participation in election observation efforts within the framework of the Organisation for American States, OAS.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-511	Mr. Old President! Around Latin America, people protest against injustice and inequality. Many of the protests are based on the brutal inequality that exists between the poor and the rich, who usually have their background in the colonial and imperialist history of the continent. Latin America is a continent with great natural resources, but where the distribution of resources rarely benefits the poorest, who are often indigenous. In Chile, the richest percentage of the population owns over 26% of the country's assets, and the poorest percentage owns about 2% of the assets. Much of the Chileans find it difficult to survive financially. Fridays are the great demonstration day in Chile, and today we are learning to be reached by new images of mass protests against President Sebastián Pi ñ era. Because during the autumn there have been extensive protests against inequality. The protests have been met with brutal force from the military, which evokes unpleasant memories of Pinochets's military dictatorship. 26 people have been killed. More than 11,000 have been injured, 280 of whom have been blinded on at least one eye by police rubber bullets. More than 15 000 people have been arrested. Reports of sexual violence from the police have quadrupled p. It is time for Sweden to raise the voice of Chile's people. Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde should call Chile's ambassador to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and condemn the violence, the state of emergency and the deployment of the military. The government should work within the EU framework to halt the updating of the Association Agreement with Chile. Sweden's arms exports to the Chilean military should be stopped, even if it is not so large. Swedish military equipment should not be used against people who make their voices heard. In Colombia, the peace process is very slow. The involvement of the world seems to have disappeared after the signing of the peace agreement and the award of the peace prize three years ago. The Colombian Government is not implementing the peace agreement at the rate promised, which means that inequality persists and that the necessary land reforms do not come about. Former guerrillas find it difficult to change to a normal life, and part of the Farcgerilla has taken up arms again. At the moment, there are also major demonstrations against inequality. What does Sweden do? In DN on 10 September this year, on the day Ann Linde became Minister of Foreign Affairs, you can read: "There are also other countries in Latin America that have shown interest in Gripen, for example, I have met a delegation from Colombia that has asked a lot of questions," confirms Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. ..................................................... The Swedish government seems to want Colombia to buy JAS aircraft instead of implementing the peace agreement. Why, Minister Linde, does Colombia, which has Latin America's largest army, major social divides and a peace agreement that is falling, need to buy the JAS plane? It feels like a military offensive rather than a democracy offensive. In Bolivia there has been a coup d'état in which police and military actively participated in the removal of President Evo. However, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde does not want to call it a coup d'état but instead writes in an answer to a written question from me that the police and the military recommended that the President resign, after which the President and a large number of ministers resigned. If the commander-in-chief of Sweden calls you, Ann Linde, and is recommending you to resign, while violent demonstrators burn down your house, would you call it a coup d'état, the Foreign Minister? The shortcomings in Evo Morale's rule that we have seen and criticised can never justify the violence we have seen or the military and police dismissing a president in a coup d'état. Now the democratic space in Bolivia is shrinking rapidly. Morale's party Mas is oppressed and restricted. The right-wing forces that have taken power want to keep up appearances towards the outside world while violence in Bolivia is increasing. If at some point the Swedish government's democratic offensive is needed, it is now.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-524	Mr. Old President! Chile has been the good example, the stable country, the country in which you invest and the country you extract from. The good years of trade have ignored the lack of democracy, the destruction of the environment, the killing of social leaders and the use of violence against the Chilean people. Some say that what is happening in Chile now is something temporary that has arisen out of thin air. A common description of Chile is that it is a stable country with a good economy. But I want to tell you a little bit about the other Chile we'd rather not talk about when we're doing business. Chile is the country where 10 percent of the population earns 25 times more than the rest of the population. Chile thus occupies a third place in economic inequality in the world, according to the OECD. The struggle of the indigenous peoples is sealed by anti-terrorist laws, where their representatives have been in prison for years without trial, where indigenous leaders have been murdered by the Chilean state, where environmental activists have been murdered in their homes when they have fought against hydroelectric power stations, and so on. Smaller cities are poisoned to such a degree by chemical industries that children and adults are forced into emergency care for long periods of time. This is how we can proceed. The list can be made long. Today, the Chilean people have said that it is enough that they want to break the neoliberal system. The Chilean government responds to this by force. It is violence that international human rights organisations have called human rights violations. State violence has led to the murder of more than 25 people. Furthermore, 11 500 have been damaged, of which 300 have lost their sight. So far, sexual violence has been reported in 200 cases. And 15,000 have been arrested, where not even half of them have been reported as arrested. So they've been illegally arrested. To this we can add that the Chilean Government has strengthened the repressive laws in the last month by giving more room for state violence without consequences. Just a few days ago, legislation was introduced to stop political indoctrination in schools. Yesterday, the President of Chile decided to deploy 2,000 police students to strengthen the repression. So the Chilean Government does not want to find a peaceful solution. In view of this, the Swedish Government has chosen not to act. It has chosen to wait, and it is thought that it is too early to see the long-term consequences of the demonstrations. How long will a government that has the opportunity to support a peaceful people wait? Where does the Swedish Government draw the line of calling Mr Pi ñ era what he is, namely a dictator guilty of human rights violations? Will the Swedish Government use the tools at its disposal to put pressure on Chile, such as pause the update of the EU-Chile Association Agreement or impose economic sanctions to stop the violence and demand responsibility from a government guilty of human rights violations?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-532	Mr. Old President! Let me begin by saying that there are great differences between the different countries in Latin America and that it is quite different in different countries. However, since the interpellant and Member of Parliament Delgado Varas have concentrated mainly on Chile and to some extent Bolivia, I intend to respond a little more to that particular point. I think it is important to say that overall developments in Latin America have been positive. Democracy has spread, the economy has been modernised and poverty has been reduced. It is not fair to give a picture of Latin America being a continent in decay. The aggregate GDP of the region has more than doubled since 2000 and so on. Of course, we are following developments in Chile closely. I receive almost daily information from our ambassador in Chile. We have meetings with representatives of the Chilean Government, of various parties and of civil society. It is clear that the demonstrations, including the response of the government and the authorities to them, have shaken Chilean society fundamentally. Chile must now find a way forward that takes advantage of and addresses the grievances that exist. Furthermore, the widespread violence and allegations of violations must be dealt with. This is done with the support of the broad political agreements now reached between the government and the opposition parties. Among other things, a new constitution should be developed. The Swedish Government, of course, expects human rights to be respected under all circumstances and Chile's independent judiciary to investigate the allegations of violations that have arisen. Chile's President Piñera has admitted that the police have not complied with established violent protocols and has certified that the allegations of violations will be investigated. In this process, independent audits and support from civil society organisations are very important. We have also taken note of the reports by Amnesty and Human Rights Watch, which criticise the use of violence by Chilean police. Human Rights Watch points out that the police have committed serious violations of human rights and recommends a number of reform measures. It is positive that the Chilean Government has welcomed the Human Rights Watch report and invited staff from the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. As far as Bolivia is concerned, we are closely following the political situation there too. We welcome the fact that Parliament has unanimously adopted a law on the holding of new and fair elections within 120 days of the appointment of Members to the electoral courts. The increased polarisation between the various political parties and the groupings in Bolivia is very unhappy and has led to escalating violence and vandalism in connection with demonstrations and protests. We have been very appalled by the reports of more than 30 deaths as a result of police and military violence. We expect maximum restraint from the military and the forces of law and order. The importance of respect for human rights cannot be stressed enough. When it comes to Colombia's possible purchase of aircraft, I do not think it is the Swedish government or parliament that should have views on it without the Colombian government.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-541	Mr. Old President! The change in government five years ago has not meant the change in relations with Latin America that many here in Sweden hoped for. The recent dramatic developments in several of the Latin American countries have, of course, passed without any major reactions from the Swedish Foreign Minister. Mr. Old President! I think that the Foreign Minister is somewhat missing the point of the left-wing interpellation today. Of course, there are differences between countries around Latin America, just as there is in Europe. But there is also something that becomes very clear when you look at how the people are doing in many Latin American countries, and there is inequality between rich and poor. That's what we're pointing at. Despite the fact that many of these countries are middle-income countries with a good economy and large natural resources, resources are distributed very unequally within the countries. This means that we are now seeing this wave of protests over Latin America. It started in Ecuador when the IMF's restructuring programme forced fuel prices to rise and a austerity package to be introduced. There were direct demonstrations against this in Ecuador. A number of politicians, especially women from the left, are still under arrest. There are also others arrested. Some have resorted to the Mexican Embassy in Ecuador. The protests continued to Chile, which has perhaps been the neo-liberal window in Latin America. It was Lorena nuclearly inside. Then they moved on to Bolivia, where Evo Morales has not complied with the Constitution or listened to the referendum. This is something that both I and Ann Linde have criticised. But it ended with a coup d'état by the right. When the Swedish Foreign Minister is unable to call it a coup d'état, I am clearly saddened. There is a big difference between Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde in 2019 and Prime Minister Olof Palme in 1973. When the coup d'état took place in Chile, he clearly said that Salvador Allende is dead. He was overthrown by force by the right-wing forces. I think it is serious that it is not possible to understand that it is a coup d'état when the Bolivian military and police are recommending Evo Morales to resign and he is forced to leave the country. In recent weeks, protests have continued from Bolivia to Colombia. The Foreign Minister doesn't think we should have any views on Colombia's defense buying JAS planes. I think we should have quite a lot of opinions about Swedish arms exports. That is why it is an issue I often raise and discuss in this House. I believe that if Sweden, as part of the international community, is to take responsibility for keeping the peace agreement in Colombia, it is important that we do not allow Minister of Economic Affairs Mikael Damberg to go to Colombia and try to sell JAS planes once the ink has dried. Instead, we need to go there and support the women peace brokers we have developed and all other types of democracy efforts. That's what Colombia needs right now, not spending the money on JAS planes. Sweden should stand up for that. Brazil is the country that many speculate that the protests will move on to. It is not surprising, because the political conflicts are hard and deep in Brazil. President Bolsonaro is inciting his political opponents. He is one of the most right-wing and reactionary presidents in Latin America. He's proud to call himself a homophobe. He has clearly profiled himself as a climate sceptic and has ensured, among other things, that the climate summit is not held in Brazil. Now it was not Chile either, but it was finally Madrid in Spain. But it is clear that this is a politician who does not have Swedish values. Yet that is where we are now exporting 36 JAS planes. It will increase Bolsonaros's power and also his ability to threaten other Latin American countries. I am very concerned about developments in Brazil under Mr Bolsonaro. This will also be linked to the trade agreement that the EU has signed with the Mercosur countries, which are part of Brazil.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-552	Mr. Old President! I hear the Minister is not willing to take responsibility for the relationship with a criminal government. What we need today is that countries like Sweden, which have a stable democratic foundation and knowledge and conditions, actually raise their voices. They have the opportunity to break the extractive, colonial policy historically waged against Latin American countries. We can no longer accept human rights violations without acting. We have a climate crisis against which we must act together, and we cannot do so without taking into account democracy and gender equality. Today, children, women and men in Chile, Colombia, Bolivia, Haiti, Brazil, Honduras, Guatemala and Paraguay are affected by the violence of the respective states. Let us show that human rights are our basis for analysing relations with all other countries. A state that commits abominable crimes against its people is not a state that Sweden should have as a trading partner. I would also like to point out that the Swedish Government should understand what the peace agreement really means and how the social movements have received it. The truth is that trade unions, social movements, environmental movements and student movements have clearly said no to the peace agreement. It is not democratic, and it does not state that the government takes responsibility for the crimes committed.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-556	Mr. Old President! Poverty in Latin America has been pushed back from 45% in 2002 to 30% in 2017. The proportion of women in legislative assemblies has increased from 13 per cent in 2000 to 32 per cent in 2019. Today, most of the countries in the region have democratically elected Heads of State or Government. I continue to highlight the positive developments in Latin America, because I do not think that a whole continent should be blacked out. But the challenges are, of course, great, not least, as Håkan Svenneling says, the great inequality and the faltering confidence among the populations in representative democracy. Dissatisfaction with the political system and mistrust of politicians have risen as a result, for example, of corruption scandals, expected but missed reforms, huge socio-economic gaps, high crime rates and widespread impunity. In recent months, extensive popular demonstrations against economic inequality and social injustice have taken place in several different countries. At the same time, it is important to remember that Latin America is a very heterogeneous region. Economic prospects vary, while democratic space and respect for the principles of the rule of law and human rights differ widely from country to country. For this reason, it is important that we adapt our Latin American policy, which is, of course, about interpellation, to each individual country, but also that we take advantage of the positive examples and positive developments that actually exist. There are regional forces working for democracy, modernisation, anti-corruption, economic integration and political cooperation, and they need to be followed and supported. I will come back to Chile, as Lorena Delgado Varas mentioned above. I have spoken several times about the situation in the country in order to emphasise the importance of respect for human rights and the fact that the authorities do not exercise disproportionate force. Within the framework of the bilateral relationship between Sweden and Chile, issues of democracy and human rights are regularly discussed. In 2017, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs published a report on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Chile, where we raised issues of economic inequality, segregation and police brutality. We are now updating the report in view of what has happened; the new report will come next year. With regard to Bolivia and how we look at what has happened there, I can only note that, at the invitation of former President Evo, the Organization for American States carried out an audit of the election results. The conclusions were presented on Sunday 10 November. There have been serious shortcomings in the elections, which have affected Morale's interests. Shortly thereafter, several trade unions and political actors, but also police and military, Morales, recommended to resign, after which both the President and a large number of ministers resigned. Sweden and other EU countries contributed to the OAS audit. On 12 November, the Second Vice-President of the Senate, Jeanine Áñez, declared himself President ad interim because the four people who came before her in the succession order resigned. Nevertheless, Sweden supports the EU statement on the importance of supporting a solution that allows for interim governance and preparations for the new elections. We welcome this weekend's broad agreement in Parliament, which allows for new and fair elections within 120 days.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-564	Mr. Old President! I had asked the Foreign Minister three questions before today's debate. The first was whether the Minister intended to work to increase Sweden's involvement in Latin America. There seems to be a commitment on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government of Latin America; that is to be welcomed. I think there is a slight lack of analysis of the class perspective. Now we heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs take up class perspectives and inequality in a better way than before. But above all, it is a question of not being able to call a coup d'état a coup d'état. I find it sad from a historical point of view to see that Social Democrats are no longer able to do so. At the same time, it is good to say now that it wants to help Bolivia into a democratic process. If the outside world does not now put pressure on Áñez and the other right-wing politicians who, through a coup d'état, have taken power in Bolivia, I do not think that democracy will come back. We see every day how the democratic space is shrinking for M ass and other parties. The result of what is happening in Latin America is to a large extent the colonial oppression to which indigenous peoples are subjected. I believe that Sweden is not doing enough to tackle inequality. For example, arms exports do not help to reduce inequality in countries or support democratic development. I think I have received a good answer about the government's efforts to promote democracy in Latin America. It is to be welcomed that democracy aid is being increased and new MR reports are being produced on nine Latin American countries – nine very interesting reports, I think. I am convinced that Sweden can play a positive role for Latin America and build on the strong links that exist between Sweden and Latin America, which have a good foundation in all the people of Latin American background who live here, the strong solidarity movements between Sweden and Latin America and our important development cooperation on the continent.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-570	Mr. Old President! As an EU Member State, Sweden is part of the very extensive bi-regional cooperation between the EU and Latin America and the Caribbean. A strategic partnership between the regions has been in place for 20 years. It has been the basis of relations, and today the EU and Latin America are more interconnected than ever. I think it is very important that we also get the whole of Europe to be active in dialogue and cooperation with Latin America. We have association agreements, free trade agreements and political cooperation agreements with 31 out of 33 countries – all except Bolivia and Venezuela. The EU is the largest investor, the third largest trading partner and the largest donor of aid to Latin America and the Caribbean. The strength of the democratic system lies partly in creating the prosperity that the population demands. But I agree with Håkan Svenneling that the gap between voters and political elites has grown and that it is one of the reasons why there is now a whole series of conflicts and demonstrations. The fact is that not only Sweden points to this, but also the OECD points out that economic inequality and the increased income gap in Latin America are not sustainable. Our efforts towards democracy must therefore promote equality and include it as a fundamental prerequisite for achieving a sustainable democratic model of society. I would like to thank Håkan Svenneling once again for bringing up Latin America. The truth is that the issue is discussed far too little in Sweden.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-574	Mr. Old President! AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has asked me where the government stands with regard to Hong Kong's right to self-determination and democratic freedom from China's authoritarian influence and whether there are any measures that I can initiate in the EU Council of Ministers or in UN forums that can influence and mitigate the outcome of this escalating conflict. In addition, AnnAnn-Sofie Alm has asked me whether I or the government are prepared to initiate discussions with other countries within the EU and the UN with a view to taking appropriate measures to bring the perpetrators of human rights violations committed by the Chinese State, according to the Independent Tribunal Into Forced Organ Harvesting from Prisoners of Conscience in China, before an international court. As regards the situation in Hong Kong, the government has recently explained its position in the answers to Åsa Coenraad's question 2018/ 19:862, on Hans Wallmark's question 2018/ 19:887, on Magdalena Schröder's question 2018/ 19:920 and on Ludvig Aspling's question 2019/ 20:2. I have also explained the government's view of developments in Hong Kong in a response to interpellation 2019/ 20:63 from Joar Forssell. The Government's letter( 2019/ 20:18) The work on issues relating to China states that Sweden, like the rest of the EU, supports the principle of one country, two systems. The principle is the basis for maintaining Hong Kong's self-governing position with an independent political and legal system in accordance with Hong Kong's constitution. Respect for the human rights and freedoms of Hong Kong residents in this law is of fundamental importance. Hong Kong's Constitution stipulates that the elections to both the Hong Kong Legislative Assembly and the Head of Government will be conducted in the future by universal suffrage. The government assumes that this will happen. For the government, work through the EU is fundamental to the situation in Hong Kong. The government in the EU has been a driving force for the EU to be clear about the need to respect the fundamental rights and freedoms of Hong Kong residents, as demonstrated by the EU's last statement on 18 November 2019. The EU also pointed out the importance of holding the local elections in Hong Kong as planned, and it is positive to note that these elections were held on Sunday and that they were held calmly. The United Nations Human Rights Office has recently spoken about the situation in Hong Kong. It has expressed its readiness to assist the Hong Kong Government in resolving the conflict by peaceful means through dialogue. The government continues to closely monitor developments in Hong Kong and will continue to support Hong Kong's self-governing position. With regard to the protection of human rights in China as a whole, I would like to begin by stating that the government is concerned about the human rights situation in China. The government's position is that all people should have the right to exercise their faith without risking persecution or harassment. The Government has stated in its letter that the Government will continue to address consistently and clearly the issue of the serious human rights situation in China in contacts with Chinese government representatives. In addition, the government will continue to work towards a strong and common EU approach as the most effective instrument in the dialogue with China. The government supports the EU's regular dialogue with China on human rights. In the relevant multilateral contexts, the government, in cooperation with the EU and like-minded, is working to draw attention to the human rights situation in China. The government will also promote enhanced cooperation within the EU and with like-minded people to counter attempts to undermine multilateral cooperation on human rights. The government will safeguard established standards and language. This year, the government issued an updated report on the human rights, democracy and rule of law situation in China, together with reports on other Asian countries. The report confirms the serious situation of civil and political rights in China. The report shows that restrictions on the exercise of human rights are particularly common in the region of Xinjiang. In addition, it appears that religious movements classified in China as sects, including falun gong, are particularly supervised. The government takes seriously the allegations made about so-called organ trafficking in China. The EU External Action Service (EEAS) has repeatedly expressed its concern about the lack of available statistics on organ transplantation in China. We are working to ensure that the EU is clear in its dialogue with China, as was also stated in the EU's 2016 China Strategy as well as in multilateral fora on human rights. The EU-China human rights dialogue is a particularly important platform. The last meeting of this dialogue was held in April 2019. In November 2018, the human rights situation in China was dealt with under the UN Universal Review Mechanism, UPR. It was a process in which Sweden made recommendations to China aimed at strengthening respect for human rights in the country. During the year, at the UN Human Rights Council, Sweden has made national speeches in the general debate under agenda item 4 on human rights situations that require the attention of the Council. Sweden has, among other things, urged China to respect the right of minorities to express their religion and culture.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-592	Mr. Old President! I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his detailed reply, although I can see a slight faintness in the face of how many times the government has answered questions about Hong Kong. But, Mr President of the Age, it is a war that is going on in the world, a war without combat, in which China has declared an ambition of power over world domination. The awareness of Swedish citizens and the Swedish business community needs to increase, and this requires clearer answers from the Swedish government. I have tabled two interpellations, to which the Minister has chosen to respond together. In view of the seriousness of the questions, I would have appreciated it if they had received the attention they deserve separately. However, I am pleased that the Foreign Minister is aware of the crimes committed and committed in the name of the Communist Party. The Chinese ambassador has been called to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs so many times that he would need a clipping card. Mr. Old President! However, my questions to the Minister are: what effect have we actually achieved? Why do we stick to the same line of dialogue and dialogue when it obviously does not bite the Chinese regime? How can the government in the name of Sweden not mark harder when the evidence towers up about what kind of state power we are dealing with and when China on Swedish soil threatens freedom of expression and even threatens our ministers to silence? The report by the Ministry of the Trikes states that in 2015 China introduced a ban on the use of organs from executed persons. According to official sources, only voluntary donations may occur. However, there are reports of circumvention. ..................................................... My first interpellation is about the London-based independent China Tribunal's report. The report is compiled by the testimony of relatives, surgeons, prison guards and former prisoners. Let me briefly summarise the content of the report. In China there is no waiting time for organs. You can call a hospital and decide which day the transplant will be performed. At the same time, you can see on the map of the largest prisons in China and the map of transplant hospitals a horrible pattern emerges: They are walled all over China. You can specifically ask to get an organ from a falun gong practitioner if you are prepared to pay for a really healthy organ. Surgeons testify that donors are still alive when the organs are harvested. The report speaks of a harvest of up to 100 000 organs. We are talking about a medical genocide. The conclusion of the report is that China is a criminal state that systematically persecutes minorities and constantly violates human rights. Mr. Old President! I may not have received the answer I wanted, but I really want to know whether the government is prepared to initiate discussions in the EU and the UN to get international independent investigation missions to investigate the crimes described in the China Tribunal's report on organ theft from prisoners of conscience in China. Mr. Old President! Knowing what this report says, we cannot allow this to continue.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-603	Mr. Old President! I think we've come up for 26 weeks of protest in Hong Kong. It is an escalating violence that we are looking at with great concern from Sweden and the outside world. What I think is most important is that we express each time we talk about the situation in Hong Kong is the reasonableness of the demands made by the demonstrators. In part, it is about the demand that has been at the heart of the bill that, if you are arrested in Hong Kong, you can be transferred to China to be judged. This bill is said to have been formally scrapped and withdrawn because of the extensive protests. This is a good thing, but it is not a case of trusting Hong Kong's leadership, or for that matter China in the background. This is closely linked to the restrictions that were made earlier during what was called, among other things, the umbrella demonstrations, a number of years ago. The protesters also have many other demands: that they should not be called rebels, that those who have been arrested during the protests should be released and that an independent investigation should take place about the police violence in Hong Kong. I believe that these are three demands which it is important for Hong Kong's leadership, and in the background of China, to meet. But above all, the point to be made is that free and fair elections will be held in accordance with the agreement signed between China and the United Kingdom in 1999. We are dealing with the government's China letter in Parliament right now, and I must say, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that I welcome the fact that you have produced such a letter and that you are submitting it to Parliament for discussion and debate. I believe that this broadly favours the political discussion in Sweden on foreign policy and China. I think that this leads to increased debate and discussion, but also to greater Swedish unity, and this is fundamentally positive. We will be adjusting the report next week and having a debate on lucia evening. I would like to warmly welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs to participate in it, but I understand whether priority is given to the family when the debate is in such a boring time as it does. What this is all about and Ann-Sofie Alm touched on is the interesting discussion about the system competition that exists between China and the rest of the world in terms of human rights. We have seen how to have pin-pointed events that have been about paying attention to human rights, 70 years this year, and that attempts have been made to repress such arrangements. I think our answer must be to increase the pressure on China. I think it's good that China's ambassador in Sweden has clipped cards at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, although it would be better if he had access cards given how many times he has been there. It is good that they call him up so much and mark on the Swedish side. I think there was an incredible strength in the fact that all political parties marked the Tucholsky Prize and supported the government in it, and above all in the fact that the government did not turn a blind eye. I am extremely happy and grateful for that, and I would like to say this. I understand that the Foreign Minister may not even comment on that, but I have gone one step further. I think you should explain the ambassador's persona non grata, i.e. undesirable in Sweden. This is because this is an ambassador who does not engage in dialogue, does not listen and does not even have the will to discuss the problems that exist in China, but consistently rejects themselves in every way possible. We have had a deterioration in relations between Sweden and China because of this ambassador, and I think this is very serious. There's a lot of human rights violations. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm picked up a number. I am just going to talk about the Uighurs briefly and say that the situation that we see in Xinjiang Province, with the detention camps that have been built up by China there, is an incredibly frightening and worrying development that we must keep an eye on. We must put pressure on China there.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-612	Mr. Old President! With regard to the first answer, I will answer a little more about organ transplants, but first let me say that both interpellants have raised the question of why to have dialogue with the ambassador and with China when it obviously does not help. I am of the opinion that the only thing that gives an opportunity to move forward is that we continue to stand up for what we think, that we repeat this time and time again, that if something happens 40 times we say it 40 times, that we do not give up and say that we have already said it and that it is a bit embarrassing to call him up again, without continuing to do so. That's why I don't think you should have persona non grata or stop talking. AnnAnn-Sofie Alm said they're threatening us to silence, but that's what they didn't do. We weren't quiet. Neither I nor the Prime Minister nor Minister for Culture Amanda Lind, who awarded the prize, will be silenced. We're being threatened, but we're not being silenced. I must say here that I am extremely grateful for the support given by all parties in Parliament. This made Sweden's criticism of the threats we received completely unanimous, and I think that matters. Even if you do not go out and say so, I am absolutely convinced of this. As far as organ trafficking is concerned, China decided in 2014 that all organs for transplants must come from voluntary donors as of 2015. The use of forced transplantation and organ trafficking has been completely banned. We welcome this, of course. From the official Chinese side it is understood that the decision has been largely implemented and that all organ transplants are based on voluntary donations. Violations of current rules, including trade in organs, are punishable by Chinese law. According to the Chinese authorities, measures are being taken to improve the organ donation system. One problem is the lack of independent monitoring of whether prisoners have given their consent to donate organs. This is made more difficult by the confidentiality of information on executions in China, which makes it almost impossible to get a correct picture of where transplanted organs come from. We are now working primarily in the EU. The EU has repeatedly expressed its concern about the lack of information surrounding both the death penalty and statistics on organ transplants in China. This also makes it almost impossible to get a true picture of where the organs come from. Ordinary Chinese citizens need access to a transplant system, but it must be based on ethics and good skills. It must also be free from corruption. Therefore, the EU has proposed that this could become an area of enhanced cooperation between China and the EU. I think this is a way forward.
i-JUq83fadMDQVvJ3gLyHY3Q	Mr. Old President! Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. However, I believe that increased cooperation on organ donation must follow a proper investigation of what is actually going on in China, so that we know that the evidence presented by the China Tribunal is not correct. If they are correct, we really need to take action. I fully understand the Foreign Minister's dilemma that we are talking about one of our biggest trading partners. Sv D wrote yesterday about China's entry into Sweden. Not only in Volvo, Spotify, Filmstaden and Oatly, but also in our research companies within energy, technology and electronics. It is important to point out that all companies in China are the Communist Party, which owns all the information held by the companies. There is a strategic war without combat, and we let ourselves be bought up piece by piece without discussing fundamental values and which world we want to hand over to future generations. When you know what is going on inside the great firewall in China, with organ harvesting, persecution of minorities, correction camps for dissidents and violations of human rights, it is easy to understand that the whole younger generation in Hong Kong stands up together and goes out on the streets and protests. It is easy to understand the desperation they feel. What is going on in Hong Kong reflects a power struggle between two systems in the world. Our part is to take responsibility, protect and defend the free democratic system that we believe in and the values that we uphold, including those that are beyond the borders of our country. The other side is the totalitarian system of Communism which, through the total coverage of its citizens, threatens anyone who wants to oppose them. Hong Kong is very small in size compared to China. But the courage and determination of people to defend their city, their dignity and their rights are remarkable in size. The dignity of Hong Kongers was demonstrated, as the Foreign Minister said, on election day when the pro-democratic forces won a landslide victory. Today, 17 out of 18 districts are controlled by pro-democratic parties. This should send out very clear signals to the rest of the world. In China, on the other hand, it has only been reported that the elections have taken place, not how the results of the elections were. Sweden is a small country in this context. We need the European Union and the United States to give weight to our words. Mr. Old President! I know that the Swedish Government is behind one country, two systems. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister the following: what does the Swedish Government intend to do to stand up for our free democratic values also to be enjoyed by the people of Hong Kong who have so clearly shown that this is what they want? Can the government consider seeking support from both the EU and the US for a statement to support Hong Kong's right to democratic freedom from China's authoritarian influence?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-625	Mr. Old President! Our relations with China are largely determined by whether we are capable of putting human rights and democracy ahead of economic interests. Many times when you read business annexes and the like, you see business leaders saying that we have to protect trade. No, as far as China is concerned, we must stand up for human rights and ensure that democratic rights are safeguarded. I would now like to highlight a number of criticisms that I have made against the letter of China which I have nevertheless praised. I think that in the letter it is too little of the feminist foreign policy. I miss this. I am a strong supporter of the government's feminist foreign policy, but I do not think it is so clearly seen in this letter. To a large extent, women are forgotten there. We have also talked about the death penalty and organ trafficking. It is mentioned a little bit in the government's letter. But in the parts that are about what strategy to have and how to work forward, it is unclear how you plan to work with these parts. Madam President, I would like Some of which are completely missing are trade union rights. They are not mentioned at all in the Chinese letter. I think that's pretty serious. I find it difficult to understand how the government's work with the Global Deal is connected if, in one of the countries from which we import the most goods, we do not talk about trade union rights. There I think the government has a lot to do and really needs to strengthen these perspectives. Finally, I would like to highlight the Swedish publisher Gui Minhai, who has been imprisoned by China for four years. I know that the government is actively working for his release, so that's basically not a criticism of the government. Nevertheless, I would like to mention his name precisely because, at all times when we are talking to or about China, we are highlighting the fate of Gui Minhais in order for him to be free without any sanction on the part of China.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-630	Madam President, I would like Both I and the Government agree with Ann-Sofie Alm's words on developments, both in terms of the democratic space in Hong Kong and in terms of the human rights situation in China in general. When it comes to Håkan Svenneling's speech, I choose not to comment on the issues relating to the Chinese letter. We'll see if we meet at lucia, maybe with glitter in our hair. I would like to say straight away that we work with the case of Minhais Gui every day. Most recently today I met a number of Swedish organisations in journalism and authorship to explain what the government is doing. Unfortunately, it is the same as in other cases, namely that although it takes a long time, we have to keep going and not allow the time to do the work we are doing to be decommissioned. There is sometimes a risk of that. Just because a certain number of weeks, months or even years have passed, it is hoped that the government will tire of highlighting the cases. But I promise that we will never tire of highlighting the case of Gui Minhais so that he will eventually be free to bring back an ass with his daughter and other family. With regard to the situation in Hong Kong, it is essential that we work through the European Union. I understood that Ann-Ann-Sofie Alm also considered it important. A new EU statement was issued on 18 November on the situation in Hong Kong. It was pointed out that the situation is unsustainable, that elections must be held and so on. The elections were held. That was very positive. Voting turnout was record high. Support for the government parties fell sharply. It's a shame they didn't report in Chinese media. This does not mean that the situation will calm down or that there will not continue to be risks in Hong Kong. That is why we will continue to monitor this situation and continue to be clear both from the Swedish side and from the EU side in the case of one country, two systems. Respect for human rights and the rule of law must remain a common thread in EU policies and in EU public statements. With regard to the human rights situation in China, I would like to start by saying that the government is very concerned about this development. Everyone must have the right to exercise their faith without the risk of being persecuted or harassed. This is true in China, as in all other countries. We will continue to raise these issues every time a minister or a State Secretary meets his counterparts in China or in Sweden. However, as I said, much of the work is being done within the EU, where, for example, it acts in international forums such as the UN Human Rights Council. We will continue to work for the EU to have a common position. And we shall support the regular dialogue between the EU and China on human rights. It was last in April when questions were raised about organ trafficking, but also about the Uighur re-education camps in Xinjiang. The death penalty is also an issue that should not be forgotten. And transparency as to how many are executed is also something that has been raised. We will continue this dialogue through the European Union, because we believe that it is the most effective way of trying to achieve some success in influencing China.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-636	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the excellent support for Gui Minhai shown by the government and shown by all of us in this House. But the violations of human rights in China are hideous. The very leaked documents show the truthfulness of the stories about the detention camps in Xinjiang. Documentary Letter from Masanjia confirms the torture and persecution. Looking out over the world and looking at Taiwan, they are also constantly under threat of being conquered by China. The only thing that resists is the United States acting as a guard dog. The United States also gave Hong Kong a proper Thanksgiving gift with a law that supports the protests and strengthens Hong Kong's independence. Madam President, I would like I think that Sweden needs to tighten up its China strategy. We cannot allow China, through its ambassador, to dictate the conditions for Sweden, neither for our trade nor for our democracy. It is reasonable that we adopt a tougher tone like the United States against China if they are to listen and understand. Here Sweden, the EU and the USA have common interests to defend. The Moderates believe that what is now required is for Europe and the United States to act together against China and speak with one voice. Madam President, I would like My hope is that the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs would like to do one thing with us Moderates to protect human rights in China and keep China's Communist Party away from world domination. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether she is willing to work in every way possible to ensure that we can achieve this jointly. I feel like the answer to that question is yes.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-642	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is yes. Although there will be a lively debate and discussion on the Chinese letter, I feel that there is a rather broad consensus between Parliament and the government that we must have a dialogue with China, but that we must stand up for human rights, freedom of expression and the rule of law. We will address this issue in all our contacts with China. This also applies to freedom of religion and what we can call freedom of belief, for example in the case of falungong. However, I have not raised the issue of Xinjiang properly. We look with concern at the reports that are coming, not least in the last week, where there is information from human rights organisations on arbitrary detention, restrictions on freedom of expression and restrictions on freedom of religion and belief. These data are extremely serious. We must ensure that the UN and other parts of the international community have access to Xinjiang so that they can obtain a basis for the situation – and then in a meaningful way. They're not just supposed to be shown potemkins, they're supposed to be able to see what's going on, for real. That is why we in the European Union have called for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights to be granted access to China. We have also, in several contexts, most recently in October, together with a number of other countries, both demanded access to Xinjiang and expressed criticism of China's actions in Xinjiang. I therefore hope that together we will be able to continue with the criticism of China's human rights violations and so on. However, we must have a dialogue with China.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-646	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me whether I can clarify the answer to his written question regarding the requirements for the employer and also clarify what measures the state intends to take to increase safety in rest areas. As I have previously replied to Thomas Morell, the Swedish Transport Administration has a mission from the government to review how the lack of safe parking places along major roads can be remedied. In the assignment, Trafikverket works with, among other things, a needs analysis of measures for increased safety at rest areas. A strong judicial system, effective criminal law legislation and an accessible police force are a prerequisite for combating crime. The government is now making historic investments in Swedish police and is also strengthening other parts of the legal chain. The judicial system is thus better placed to increase security and combat all forms of crime, no matter who it is directed against. The employer also has, as I have previously replied, a responsibility for the driver having a good working environment. This responsibility includes taking risk prevention measures if an employee is at risk of being subjected to violence or threats of violence and following up on the measures taken.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-650	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Tomas Eneroth. It was a slightly different shade of the answer to the interpellation compared to the answer to the written question. The problem with drivers not feeling safe when they stop at a rest area is a huge concern, and the government ordered an investigation asking how drivers are experiencing their situation. 70 percent of drivers said they were worried about being subjected to crime, and 43 percent have actually been subjected to some form of criminal activity – theft, assault or whatever. I had a debate on this with Minister Mikael Damberg on Tuesday. I then took the example of translating the figures into Members of Parliament. We are 349 Members, and if 70% of Members were concerned about being subjected to crime in any way, that would mean 244 Members. That would correspond to all even the bench over there, where Västra Götaland's southern constituency is located. 244 members of the Riksdag would therefore be concerned about being subjected to crime. It is a fairly large proportion, and such a large proportion of professional drivers are therefore concerned. If 43 per cent of the members of Parliament had been subjected to crime, this would have been equivalent to 150 members. Then you end up somewhere at the bench of Kronoberg County, which is by the way Tomas Eneroth's home constituency. It is therefore almost half of Parliament's members, and half of the professional drivers have been victims of crime. The example I mentioned in the last debate was a tow truck driver who got knocked down in a rest area where he had stopped after he got a misindication on his car. I talked to his employer as late as today in the morning. The driver's back at work, but he's not feeling well. He's got a constant headache. Of course, he will constantly cast a watchful eye over his shoulder to see what happens next, for he was struck from behind when he had stayed at that rest stop between Lerum and Härryda. The Government says that a strong judicial system is important, and that is something I agree with. We need more officials to carry out checks on the roads in order to hold back the criminal activity. However, we see exactly the opposite trend with regard to the police. An article that I have here says that the number of police officers has decreased by 470 in the country and by 60 in the middle region, to which Västmanland belongs. The number of police officers is falling, although the target is to employ 1 500 more by 2020 compared to 2015. This is a worrying development, given that the remaining police resources are primarily used for the serious violence in the form of explosions, shootings and so on, as we also see in society today. There will be very little left to traffic control, and even less one has the opportunity to train traffic police. This training is expensive, and it takes quite a long time for the police to be ready and on the road. I will develop the issue of employer responsibility, but I will take it in the next speech.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-657	Madam President, I would like Crime is terrible, no matter who is affected, and must be prosecuted. It's as bad if a truck driver gets beaten up in a rest area as it is if someone gets hit with an iron pipe down in town. Of course, then, the rule of law must act. The guilty must be prosecuted, and crime must be detected and prosecuted; that goes without saying. Therefore, there is an assignment at Trafikverket to create safe resting places and ensure that we get more safe zones. With the change we have made, not least in camera surveillance legislation, areas that are particularly vulnerable to crime can now be identified, thus increasing the scope for monitoring. It is also well known that in this government we have not only increased the resources for the police – 10 000 more police workers in the coming years – but also increased control on our roads. We have earmarked SEK 100 million for cabotage controls and have introduced effective measures in the form of complaints, fines and ordering liability. This also applies, for that matter, to the winter tyre legislation, which is now coming into force. After all, the inquiry into a professional road inspection, or more effective professional inspections on the road, has also been set up. The ambition is to expand the control activities and to see how cooperation between the Swedish Transport Agency and the traffic police can be improved. I hope that this is something that Thomas Morell can also support in the future. The dilemma of the Swedish democrats in this is that, as always, they have supported a moderate-led government and voted against Stefan Löfven as Prime Minister, despite the fact that it is during Stefan Lövven's time that Prime Minister we have received effective action against illegal cabotage traffic and received the commission we gave on how to get more safe rest places. I chose to address the issue of employers' responsibility in the reply. I believe that an important part of what we can do together is to increase security. When Trafikanalyse report, which was commissioned by the government, concluded that there is increased insecurity and at the same time we see that the propensity to report has not increased when it comes to threats or violence in rest areas, we need to consider whose responsibility this is. What we have come to life is that you sometimes choose not to report because you have, for example, lack of time and feel stress. Then it's a work environment issue. It is not reasonable that you should have such pressed schedules or so tough working conditions that you do not have the time or opportunity to file a police report. You can go even further and say that the employer actually has a fairly far-reaching responsibility in preventing workers from suffering threats and violence. This is not the same as the employer having a responsibility for police surveillance, and so does Thomas Morell. I think that those of us who want to curb this development must also consider how more efforts than just those of the police can help to increase the security of those who carry out the incredibly important task of transporting goods on our roads. If this is to be an attractive profession and a future industry where you ensure that you are involved and keep Sweden rolling and alive and ensure that with climate-smart, efficient transport we can maintain an industry with high export values, we must also ensure that there is a safe working environment. This responsibility rests on both the police and the Finnish Transport Agency – now that we are looking at safe resting places – as well as on the employer and other actors in society. Here we must help each other and make it safer for those who travel along our roads.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-666	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Tomas for his answer. Speaking of employer responsibility, the employer obviously has an obligation to ensure that the vehicle is safe and that the driver has a good working environment in what is under the employer's responsibility. But what we are talking about is the safety of state rest areas. It is not there that one can point out that an employer has a responsibility, but it is the state that has the full responsibility for people being able to feel safe in our society. We're backing back to the driver who was up to date, who showed up last Wednesday. He was beaten down and was lying for half an hour on the side of the road. Apparently, no one dared to stop and help him, but he was lying there by the side of his tow truck for a long time. You estimate the time to 30 minutes. It is also known that there were several vehicles that passed before he himself woke up and by radio could call for help. This is not an employer's responsibility. I also realise that you cannot have a police officer hanging in the back of every criminal – that is not possible – but we still need to have a society that can get to those who engage in criminal activities and take action against them with reasonable accuracy. The detection risk must at least be so great that there aren't years between each time you meet a cop out on the road. It is far too sparse as it is today. This has meant that those who engage in criminal activities out in the road system can work fairly undisturbed, which has made those who work and try to manage the transports for the rest of us feel a concern at their workplace. This is where the state falls into its task. Here we must make sure that there is a change, because we cannot have it this way. In my initial reply to my question, the Government was quite clear that it was the employer's responsibility. When the answer to the interpellation itself came, something had changed so that the state was also on the responsibility side. I think it is important to look at what the employer can actually do and what the state must do; there is a great difference between these two different things.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-673	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I think it is important to remember that several actors have a responsibility. That is why I wrote in the answer to the written question, and developed here in the interpellation response, that it is the responsibility of the state to ensure that we have police resources – it is true and important. That's where we provide resources. We are increasing the number of police officers in Sweden and have even made an ear tag for cabotage controls. We also see that the number of reported offences against driving and rest time rules has now increased, as the police are more efficient. It is, of course, also a government task to ensure that we, together with commercial operators, can find more safe resting places. Sometimes it should be in government direction, with monitoring possibilities, but there are also Truckstop and other actors who have tried to find safe environments for those types of rest areas on a commercial basis. But it is also employer responsibility. Just as we have regulations for cooperation in the retail sector, in the future we need to reflect on employers' responsibilities when people are exposed to risks or threats in the world of work. The Swedish Work Environment Authority's regulations require risk prevention measures, how the work for an improved working environment should be followed up and – above all – that incidents should be investigated. Here I think we have a job to do. Not least, I believe that the industry – the trade unions together with the haulage companies – has a job to do with considering the propensity to report and the incidents. Is it that it is too stressful, as the study from Trafikanalys points out, and that it is stress in working life that makes you not report it will be a dark number – then we do not see the extent of the bad work environment or the crime activity that in that case is at risk. Here the industry needs to be helped, both to create greater security for the individual drivers and to say: We're here. How can we increase security? ..................................................... Today, with digital tools, there are more opportunities than ever to also increase this security. In the same way, of course, it is reasonable that we now use the opened legislative space for camera surveillance to ensure that we can have better surveillance on that road at certain rest areas, if they are subject to crime. My starting point is to ensure that this becomes a joint responsibility. We're adding resources to the police. We have an investigation into how occupational traffic control will increase further, and we have an assignment to the Swedish Transport Administration regarding safe rest areas. But we must also ensure that other actors, including the transport industry itself, have a responsibility – not least an employer's responsibility – for the working environment. These are issues where Thomas Morell and I seem to have a common understanding and where I know that the Swedish Democrats have now subsequently supported the proposals that we have pushed through on clapping, fines, winter tyre requirements – I would like to remember – and the possibility of increased cabotage controls. However, the challenge of Thomas Morell and the Swedish Democrats is that they still support a moderate-led government that during its time in power did not lift a finger to increase security, to make efforts to get our roads in order or to tighten up the control possibilities for illegal cabotage traffic. Then it was free movement that was in place of order. Now we have a different order. Now we will also soon have a mobility package in place after the trilogue, and then there will be more opportunities for us across Europe to get better order and find out our ways. That has been my and this government's priority, and here we see clear results.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-684	Madam President, I would like This with the history description is quite interesting – you can look at things in several different ways. I would like to recall that it was a united Committee on Transport that produced the proposals that were later carried out after the 2014 elections. During the period that the Transport Committee did this, Tomas Eneroth's party colleague Anders Ygeman was the chairman. In the EU, it was the late Jens Nilsson who, together with Peter Lundgren, produced many of the proposals that will be implemented. So a more nuanced history description would be appropriate. When we talk about the fact that 43% of drivers have in some way been victims of crime, I would like to say that the state's mission has fallen through completely. In fact, 43 percent of drivers have been victims of a crime, either theft or assault. There are quite a few, and society will not be able to carry out its mission here. The employer can of course do his part. At the same time, however, we have to take into account driving and rest times, which say that after four and a half hours the driver must take a break, even if he ends up in a place where it is not appropriate to stop. If he drives on to a place that is enlightened and more adapted, another authority imposes a penalty fee on the employer. It'll be a little bit of an element 22 over it all. What the state has to do is establish the rule of law and support the drivers out there. Just as Mr Eneroth said here a moment ago, it is important that you have someone on the sidelines, and in this case it is actually the state that stands by and is going to carry out its mission.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-688	Madam President, I would like I have to say that I was a little worried at the end when I heard Thomas Morell completely abdicate the employer from any responsibility whatsoever. The employer has a responsibility to ensure that you have a safe working environment and that there are procedures to intervene when someone is exposed to crime and report this. It is serious when an employee is subjected to crime. It is then possible to report incidents, and they will then be investigated. This is also how we provide the police with information and tools to study what the crime development looks like and what efforts should be made. I also get a little worried when I hear Thomas Morell talking about that it would be too strict driving and rest rules that are a concern. Longer liberalisation can, of course, mean that drivers are actually being pushed to drive further and that they become even more stressed in working life. I think it is tough enough to be a truck driver today with the times for deliveries at an increasingly stressful pace in the traffic we have today. On the contrary, we would probably need a little more secure and better conditions for the country's drivers, so that they feel that they have both the support of the employer and of society in terms of controls against unfair competition, as we are seeing today on our roads, and of course also a police presence. That was one of the reasons why we set up the inquiry into more effective professional controls, so that perhaps, like Germany, we can have a professional traffic inspection. I believe that it would increase safety on the road and provide better opportunities to check that transport on our roads is legal and is carried out under fair conditions. There is also a proposal from the Swedish Transport Administration to investigate the issue of special road safety inspectors or inspectors, a proposal which I have welcomed and which is now within the framework of the investigation. Then we can get more people who are out and control and better order and conditions on our roads.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-692	Madam President, I would like Thomas Morell has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the maintenance of winter roads is acceptable. The Finnish Transport Agency has developed modern methods and working methods for monitoring the contractors' work. It is important that contractors deliver according to contract and that the work carried out can be followed up. This has not resulted in any divergent requirements being imposed or any other change in the methods of winter maintenance implementation. It is important that both hauliers and private individuals use winter tyres that meet the requirements of the new strengthened legislation now in place. Thomas Morell thinks I'm implying that the hauliers don't live up to the winter tyre requirements. That is a false statement. The new winter tyre law has been welcomed by the haulage industry, not least because road safety and a safe working environment for drivers are a high priority. As I explained in my answer to the previous question, the Finnish Transport Administration has the necessary financial resources. There are developed requirements for winter road maintenance standards and routines and methods to follow up entrepreneurs' work in a necessary way. This creates the conditions for a working winter road maintenance.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-696	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister Tomas Eneroth. There is an advantage in getting older, and that is getting a little perspective on how things develop. When it comes to winter road maintenance, it has not become better. I took my driver's license in the mid-70s and started driving heavy-duty vehicles in the 80s, and I see with dismay that road maintenance has become significantly worse. I can only show you what has happened today. Aftonbladet, which is a newspaper well known to the Government, reports about double bus accidents today on the E18 after lightning. Today I talked to a farm owner who went on the E20 between Södertälje and Kjula, where there was ice bark on the road. After Kjula and towards Eskilstuna the friction was acceptable, but from Eskilstuna towards Arboga it was again ice bark on the roadway. A mile after Eskilstuna there had been a traffic accident. Then there was another at home on highway 49 that laid out that there was lightning on the road. This is how it is and has been for years. Robert Collin of Aftonbladet has written a series of articles about the situation. Although there are slips and weather changes going on, the stakes are not sent out, because you trust the mild degree of technology that has been mounted up, such as cameras, and some pucks along the way. There is also an app that tells you when it gets slippery. It is no longer someone who goes out scraping his foot along the road to see if it is slippery. This has caused the roads to turn upside down and become ice cream, what you call black ice. I talked to a trucker a few weeks ago, just when the first slip came. He had then sat on the winter tires, which were new. He said you couldn't keep the car on the road. But he was so lucky that it stopped against the last friction out at the ditch edge. Otherwise he would have put the whole ride on the side of the car, and then he would drive 50 kilometers an hour on an otherwise smooth road. At the time when I was working at the traffic police, we were always doing investigations to see if it was vehicles, drivers or roads that were the cause of the accident itself. It happened sometimes when it was slippy that we went out and measured bombing on the road, curve radii and other things, and we brought the breakdown investigators of the Swedish Road Administration with us. Then I avoided driving on the big road and took, if possible, a parallel road that was still snow covered or had regular winter before. The examiner from the National Road Administration then asked why I was driving there. Then I replied: There is nothing as slippery as a road that the National Road Administration manages. This is the effect of the modern way of doing anti-slip work. You put on a much too bad give, so when it thaws up and then refreezes the road becomes more slippery than it was before. This is something that every professional driver can testify to, especially those who are my age and who have followed developments. Normally a development goes the better way, but in this case it goes the worse way. The accident rate for this year is already palpable. Today there have been several serious accidents, including an accident involving two buses. One was an orchestral bus, where the driver was squeezed and injured. We can therefore see a negative development in the area of anti-slips.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-707	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Thomas Morell! Yes, it is true that there is an advantage in getting older. The alternative is terrible. We both have our experiences to build on. My experience is that road safety is increasing. Sweden is one of the world's leading countries in reducing the number of road deaths and injuries. It is good that we have developed with ABS brakes and anti-slip systems. In addition, we now have requirements for winter tyres on all wheels of heavy vehicles. This is the first winter when we will try this. We must ensure that we do not have incidents or accidents caused by poor equipment. Other countries have previously been ahead while Sweden has chosen not to regulate this. Now we have a government that is taking hold of this in order to increase the security of our roads. I cannot, like Thomas Morell, condemn new technology and say that it does not work to measure how things look on the roads. I think it is good that we are using new anti-slip technologies. However, we must also be aware that in case of blackishness on the roads, and when it comes quickly, action does little to help. Then it is a question of sometimes realizing that you have to wait until the anti-slips have arrived. It is then short bet times that apply. In the debate there is sometimes a notion that these are budgetary constraints. These are not available for anti-slip operations. The resources available are to be used here. The Finnish Transport Agency does not have its own anti-slip system, but it is an entrepreneur who implements it. Would Thomas Morell suggest any other order and that the Swedish Transport Administration have its own resources for anti-slip? I assume that our experts in the authorities are doing their best to use the best technology and the best anti-slip measures and to measure in the best possible way. It is not up to me, as a minister, to examine the experts' assessment of what is the right effort at the right times. What I do, however, is to ensure that we have sufficient resources and also clear requirements for monitoring the efforts made. The last time it was about GPS marking on transport so that you know that you get the anti-slips you pay for. This must be the starting point for us to create security on our roads. Thomas Morell himself is a driver, and I'm a person who likes to drive on the road. It will always be that you have a responsibility to adapt speed to the road team. Although the new winter tyre legislation has the very latest tyres of the best quality, the speed will always have to be adjusted. This brings us to the issue we discussed in the previous interpellation debate on the responsibility of the employer and the stress of working life. I cannot help thinking about the increased pressure on time in the transport sector. One is stressed to drive as fast as possible. After all, the Finnish Transport Administration's investigation shows that it is professional traffic that, to a greater extent than other modes of transport, violates the rules on speed. Stress in working life makes you take greater risks, which worries me. I would also like Thomas Morell to reflect a little on the responsibility of both the employer and the transport industry to calm down the pace of traffic and reduce stress in working life in order to ensure that we also have safer roads in this way. However, as I said, fewer people were killed and injured in traffic than, I believe, ever in Sweden. This shows that the road safety work we have done has been successful.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-716	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister Tomas Eneroth. I am particularly grateful because I had the idea of a new interpellation. Today is November 29, and winter has only begun. Yet this year there have been several such headlines as the article I now hold up. It's about lightning. It has been all over the country and not only up in Norrland but also on the west coast, in Dalarna and a bit everywhere. This is the road management in Skultörp, the one that has hand um 中 et. We who are old enough remember the sketch that Rulle Lövgren once wrote and which was performed by Sten-Åke-Åke Cederhök. It was just about the road administration in Skultorp. I lived right next to this road management, that is, road station. There I saw how the uncles worked. I'm telling you, uncles, 'cause I wasn't that old back then. Sometimes they would slip out and fight. They didn't have the equipment we have today. The vehicles did not have the tyre equipment that we have today. They had slipped then too, but it was another type and more manageable. When I took my own driver's license in the mid-70s, I had winter tires of the Trelleborg brand. I don't know if the government's ever seen them. The tyre pattern looked like a viper on the back; it went in a zigzag. They are worthless tyres according to today's standards, but it was possible to stay on the road. Today we have softer rubber blends and sajpningar. We've got ABS on the cars. There are, especially on heavy-duty vehicles, gyros that sense the direction of the vehicle on the road and adjust the braking force accordingly. Nevertheless, it is sometimes impossible to keep the cars on the road, even though they are driven at legal speed or significantly below it. The car slides off when a slip has been created that should not be there. This is the problem with modern anti-slips. There is too little salting, which increases the roadway, which then refreezes. Then you get a slip that you shouldn't have had. In such situations, it may actually be better not to do anything at all and leave the way it is. I've told my wife more than once when we've been on the road and it's 10 degrees cold: That's great. Then you meet the salt car. What's it doing? Well, it pulls up moisture from the roadway that then refreezes, and then it becomes slippery. I don't know if the government usually watches YouTube and stuff like that. There are some interesting films where people stop by the side of the road, strap on skates and ride with them on the road. This is road maintenance in Sweden now! I find it remarkable. I talk a lot to drivers. Personally, I don't drive actively anymore, but only when I get at- I cheat. When you talk to active professional drivers, they say it only gets worse and worse every year. When we see such headlines as in the article I am now holding up – by the way I use Aftonbladet because I know that the Government reads it – you should act yourselves against the Finnish Transport Agency and at least ask the question how it is that such headlines occur almost every day when the temperature is crawling down. This, if anything, signals that it is not quite right.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-725	Madam President, I would like There is something that recurs in Swedish democratic description of what society and social development look like. It was always better before, it's always worse now and everything actually goes really bad. Sometimes the facts do not help, but it is obvious that one has decided what kind of reality one wants to give. I just said that we have a development with the lowest number of people killed and injured in traffic, and that we have been successful in our work on zero vision. In fact, we have a safer traffic environment. Furthermore, we are adding more resources now than ever, not least in the area of anti-slips. But if, with anecdotal evidence and newspaper headlines, you want to lead in proof that everything is going in the wrong direction, you can of course make such a description. However, I would like Thomas Morell to consider whether there can be any advantages to the new technology that has come into the fight against slips. Have we yet obtained a better and safer situation on the roads? At least the statistics suggest that fewer people are killed and injured on our roads. Having said that, I am very careful that road safety is a high priority. For me, this is very important. That's why I pushed through the winter tires legislation. If you then have Michelin, Gislaved, Nokian Hakkaeliitta or whatever brands you have – Trelleborg is probably no longer there – you should have adequate tyres. You should have well equipped vehicles. There should be good braking systems on them. We will make sure to provide security not only for those drivers who, in their job, drive on the roads but also for anyone who meets those who drive on the roads. This is one of the reasons why we are increasing controls on driving and rest times. We want to increase cabotage controls so that Thomas Morell or I who now drive private cars on the road will not meet a tired driver or a driver who is stressed because of poor working environment. At that time, such a driver cannot control a 60 ton heavy vehicle but risks getting over on the wrong side of the road. This is the security on our roads: the responsibility of employers, the responsibility of drivers and your and my responsibilities as fellow road users. It is also about anti-slip measures and that we have more resources for anti-slip measures. Of course, we also need to use new technologies to make it more effective. I am concerned about the acceleration that we have seen in traffic. But I am even more concerned that it is described as if nothing has improved, as the Swedish Democrats sometimes systematically do. Nevertheless, I think we can see that there have been considerably fewer deaths in traffic now than in the 1970s to which Thomas Morell refers.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-732	Madam President, I would like It's pretty amazing anyway. I don't think Robert Collin is quite as impressed with Tomas Eneroth's description of his report. It is Robert Collin who has written the article, not the Swedish Democrats. He has written three articles about the slip this year so far. I think I can back down there because I'm not the messenger. I'm a reporter. It wasn't all better before. We have much better systems for quite a lot today. I myself have investigated some 300 deaths in traffic to find out why people died. Every death in traffic is a defeat for the individual, for the families and for society. Together, we must do something about this in order to minimise the risk of loss of traffic. We'll be able to go out and come home alive. It's really important. But there must be a contact between the vehicle you drive and the ground so that you do not get off the road or get over on the wrong side. It does not help however good equipment you have and however careful you drive if the friction between the vehicle and the surface becomes too bad. All professional drivers today testify that there is too little friction on the road. It's not my word. It's the professional drivers. I can offer any day of the week to take Tomas Eneroth out to visit professional drivers and see how bad things are in their places.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-735	Madam President, I would like I thank Thomas Morell for his offer. I have travelled on our roads several times together with the Transport Workers' Association and the Swedish Åkeri Company and I am impressed by the knowledge that exists about how the transport sector will develop. Therefore, I am also keen to talk about how we develop the transport sector, how we make it attractive to work there, how we ensure that it becomes better and safer working environment and how we ensure that more people realise the incredible importance not only of truck drivers but of the whole transport sector for Sweden as an industrial nation to function. The whole of Sweden rolls, we sometimes say. The fact that we have good transport is a prerequisite for society to function. Then it is clear that winter road maintenance must work. That's where we have resources, and that's where we need them. We develop new technology and make demands on those who perform winter road maintenance. I realise that there will certainly always be new technical solutions and new requirements. Some I leave with a warm hand to the specialists to develop in dialogue with the industry. Other things I have been very determined that we should regulate at national level. This applies, for example, to the new winter tyre legislation, which is now coming into force for the first time. It will be exciting to see how the development will be this winter, when we will now have winter tires on all wheels of all heavier vehicles. I hope and believe that this will lead to greater security on our roads. Here's Thomas Morell and I agree. We want our roads to be safe. We want fewer people injured or killed in traffic. However, I would just like to say that the number of road deaths and injuries has fallen sharply since the 1970s. We are the world leader in road safety precisely because of the work we do, and that work is now being led not least by the Government and the Finnish Transport Administration.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-739	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me two questions about Bypass Stockholm. Earlier this year, Trafikverket terminated the contract with the contractor who built those tunnels during Lovön. The basis for the cancellation is a breach of contract with regard to the working environment in particular. The main reasons why the project now has an extended construction time and an increased cost are the geological conditions in certain sections of the mountain and the termination of the contract for the work on the tunnels under Lovö n. I have no intention of interrupting the construction of Bypass Stockholm. It would be a real waste of taxpayers' money to pay for both pre-arranged funds and decommissioning costs, without being able to benefit at all from the benefits Bypass Stockholm will contribute when it is completed. Having said that, I would like to stress at the same time that I take very seriously the delay and the cost of the Stockholm bypass project. It is, of course, part of Trafikverket's mission to review the possibilities of taking measures that make it less expensive than announced. The possibility and appropriateness of possibly opening part of the route earlier is also investigated. Bypass Stockholm is part of the so-called Stockholm negotiations from 2007. It was a deal between the state negotiator and representatives of the Stockholm region on traffic and infrastructure investments for the Stockholm region. The County Administrative Board of Stockholm County, Stockholm County Council, the Association of Local Authorities Stockholm County, the City of Stockholm and then the Swedish Road Administration and Banverket have since signed an agreement from 2010 on co-financing of investments according to the so-called Stockholm negotiations. D the current bourgeois government established these efforts in decisions on the national plan for the period 2010 to 2021.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-743	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the answer to my interpellation on Bypass Stockholm. Bypass Stockholm is Sweden's most expensive and largest motorway construction. The price tag was initially about SEK 30 billion. Now it is approaching $40 billion. A few weeks ago, the Finnish Transport Agency announced a significant increase of SEK 3.3 billion and that the entire project will be delayed by four years. SEK 40 billion for a highway of about 20 km will be a cost of about SEK 2 million per meter. It says something about the cost of the project. There is an obvious risk of the increased cost of the motorway project: that important investments in public transport in Stockholm will be pushed away. There is also a different and even more serious cost for this project. That is, of course, the price of the climate. Bypass Stockholm is built according to a forecast of increased car traffic. With increased car traffic, we will also have increased emissions. This is why Bypass Stockholm is rejected by a united environmental movement and has also been rejected by our expert authority Naturvårdsverket. The decisions on the motorway project were made, as the Minister says, for example in 2007 with the Stockholm negotiations and since 2010. Then this came into the national plan for infrastructure investment decided by the bourgeois government at the time. Since 2010, some things have happened. For example, we have received the Paris Agreement. We have also gained a strong awareness of the climate crisis that we are currently experiencing. Since last year, we in Sweden have a climate law and a climate policy framework that says that all policy areas must work to achieve our climate goals. One of these important climate targets is for the transport sector to reduce its emissions by at least 70% by 2030. At present, we know that emissions from road traffic are increasing, not decreasing. We therefore need to do much more to reduce our emissions. Therefore, I think it was interesting to take note of a letter from the Nature Protection Association and Climate Action that I know has gone to the government. They suggest that the government should set up an unbiased investigation to look at the consequences of interrupting the construction of Bypass Stockholm, both from an economic perspective and from an environmental perspective and with regard to how it can affect public transport, for example. I think that is a very interesting proposal. The Minister could commission the Finnish Transport Administration to set up such an investigation. The Minister could also give a commission to Trafikverket to at least ensure that Bypass Stockholm stays within the budget that is fixed and that Bypass Stockholm will not be the project that endangers our climate goals. Those assignments have not been given by the Minister to the Finnish Transport Administration. The Minister replies that he assumes that the Finnish Transport Administration is working on this on an ongoing basis.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-751	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jens Holm! Let me say that we share a great many points of view regarding the need for the transport sector to adapt to the climate. If we are to meet the 70% target by 2030, much more needs to be done. That is why we are working on the change of fuel, the reduction obligation, which gives us biofuels. That is why we are working hard on electrification of the transport sector. We can do it in a situation where we have record-sized electricity surpluses. Despite the closure of nuclear power plants, it is SEK 85 billion in decided investments in wind power in Sweden. We are exporting as much electricity as it would be required to electrify the whole transport sector by far. In addition, we invest more than ever in rail. We are making the biggest railway effort in modern times. Then I am not counting on new main tracks, which would be incredibly welcome, but I am counting on all the other railway initiatives we do not least in the Stockholm region with four tracks between Stockholm and Uppsala but also Norrbotniabanan and Sydostlinken. We do this in order to meet the climate targets. But at the same time as it is said, the projects already under way must also be pursued. In 2010 decisions were made, and already 2007 decisions were negotiated on Bypass Stockholm. Interrupting construction in the middle of the period is not reasonable. I think Jens Holm also realizes that. However, it is of course the task of the Finnish Transport Administration, and that task already has it, to complete the implementation but also to reduce costs. It is a question of how to reduce the cost increases resulting from, for example, the cancellation of the contract at Lovön. I have recently had a meeting with representatives of the Stockholm region where we looked both at the cost of the Stockholm bypass but also at the much stronger costs that we see in the region's own projects on the subway. There's the cost up in the 9–10 billion class. It exceeds the percentage of the cost we see in Bypass Stockholm. That's worrying. The metro initiative in the Stockholm region is important not least from a climate perspective but also because Stockholm is growing. As Stockholm grows, infrastructure investments must also be in place. They're going to pass the climate test. They're supposed to contribute to the transition. It will become even more important in the future when we see how we develop cities and mobility so that we get better and smarter traffic solutions. There are two parts to this. One is to look forward to what investments we will make in the future to ensure that we shift the transport sector both on the infrastructure side to the next national plan and also here and now in the case of drivelines, bonuses– malus, electrification or fuel reduction. This applies not least to what demands we should be able to make in cities where the proposal that we have pushed through during our reign on environmental zones can be an important tool to be used. In addition, of course, it is also important to ensure that the project does not have any major exceedances without remaining within the framework of the project. It is a question of analysing how you can increase the benefits by opening parts of the bypass earlier so that you do not get a too long delay. Then I think we all have a responsibility to think about how procurement and procurement structures can contribute to smarter procurements in the future when it comes to cost increases for infrastructure objects. I know that Jens Holm and I share the same view.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-761	Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party welcome the climate efforts that are now being made. Unfortunately, however, it is not fast enough. With the policy of the Left Party, it would go faster. We would have a faster development of elladd infrastructure. We would have increased investments in biofuels and not least in the important biogas. We would have increased investments in public transport. We would have a faster expansion of the railway in Sweden. All these are areas where we spend more money and demand higher ambitions. We can do this partly because we also tell you what we need to do less of. We need to drive smaller cars, not least in our big cities where it is perfectly possible to travel collectively. This is why we dismiss the constructions as Bypass Stockholm or, by the way, the planned cross-connection at Södertörn that will be loosed at approximately SEK 11 billion. When it comes to Bypass Stockholm, it is extremely important that we at least get a slimmed version that better rhymes with the climate targets we have adopted. Those climate targets did not exist when the bypass was clubbed from the beginning, but they have come behind. It is also important that we have a building that at least remains within the budgetary framework that exists. Here, the Minister has every opportunity to ensure that the responsible authority is working on these issues. Then I do not think it is quite enough that the Minister only assumes that the Swedish Transport Administration will return with some kind of slimmed version of Bypass Stockholm. I'm very afraid you'll be tough on just like usual. It is not at all impossible for us to stand here again in a year's time, and then the price tag at Bypass Stockholm has been raised by a few billion more. Therefore, the Minister should use his opportunity to give a concrete mission to our responsible authority to return with a slimmed version of Bypass Stockholm. Or you can do as suggested in this letter that I hold up from the environmental movement and also investigate the possibility of completely stopping the project. Madam President, I would like I would also like to take this opportunity to ask about the funding of Bypass Stockholm. Bypass Stockholm is mainly financed with the congestion tax available here in Stockholm. Now that we have a heavy cost, many people are afraid that it will be put on the congestion tax. This means that we will have increased congestion taxes where revenues continue to go to motorways instead of public transport. It was the original idea of congestion taxes when they were introduced here in Stockholm. Like the Minister, we have important investments in the metro that are to be made here in Stockholm. In addition, we have extra-large investments to come. It is the metro between Älvsjö and Fridhemsplan, Tramway south on Södertörn, and we also have an extension of Roslagsbanan into City. It's next to the new subway that's going out to Nacka. There is a great deal of concern here that some of these metro investments will not take place or be delayed because Bypass Stockholm will crowd out these important investments. The state plays an important role here. The congestion tax is a tax that we clubs here in Parliament. Will the Minister of Infrastructure become involved in this issue and ensure that the investments to be made to expand public transport in Stockholm also land there and not be delayed and reduced?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-771	Madam President, I would like There is much one could say about Jens Holm's speech. It is clear that I am concerned, like many others, about the increase in infrastructure items or investments. This applies not least to the metro investment in the Stockholm region. We cannot have a system in which we get billions in excess of large infrastructure objects. Therefore, cost control should be increased. Jens Holm himself has been on the committee, where Trafikverket explained the reasons for the costs and delays in connection with the Stockholm bypass. The cost is 9%. In the construction of the subway, the cost is about 40 - 50 percent, if I have understood correctly. Of course it's worrying. This, of course, risks having an impact on other actions in the future. It is therefore important to work with efficiency improvements during the construction period in order to reduce that risk. I have certainly not been passive, on the contrary. I took the initiative immediately, before Jens Holm reacted, to invite the actors. I made sure that we had a meeting with the Stockholm region and also information from the Swedish Transport Administration and from other actors. It was about creating a picture of the situation and a readiness for how to deal with any future costs. I think it's important. However, I also think it is important to address the fundamental or perhaps difficult issue of the future procurement of infrastructure objects and the under-pricing that has been on the market. Perhaps this is a discussion that needs to be held not least in the Committee on Transport and Tourism in the future. As far as the conversion is concerned, I have no other opinion than Jens Holm. We are keen and enthusiastic about the opportunity to do even more to change the transport sector. If we are to reach the 70% target, more needs to be done. That is why we are making the biggest railway effort in modern times. That is why we are spending record amounts on the renovation and repair of the Swedish rail system. That is why we can now also become a world leader in electric roads. The world's first permanent electric road may be built in Sweden. There, heavy and truck transport can be sequentially charged and thus fossil-free. In this together with the biofuel development and electrification of the entire vehicle fleet, Sweden can become the world leader and show that it is possible. And I want the gods to know it's necessary! In these times when not least a president of a country west of us has tweeted that they did not want to participate in the Paris Agreement – how important is it then that the signal from Sweden is to talk about that we will do this and that we will change? It is a signal not only to Greta Thunberg and hundreds of thousands of other young people who are concerned but also to the entire world's population and many countries who are also concerned about what climate change may mean. Then Sweden can, by daring to be a permanent world exhibition, dare to test new technology and dare to make courageous decisions about investments in, for example, railways and new main roads, make sure that we can manage the transition. Then we must also be able to develop urban transport. The new decisions we are talking about in the future must be based on increased mobility in the city, increased public transport, modes of transport other than cars, of course, and not least on finding more ways to combine mobility and security. We should not allow old traditions and starting points for urban planning to apply to future cities. Here we have changed the way we look at national level when we already included housing construction in the 2018 national plan as an important part. Four tracks between Stockholm and Uppsala can provide 50,000 homes. It's a community building. I believe that in the future we will include more aspects. The climate aspect is self-evident, but it also applies to the gender dimension so that we will have an equal, equal and climate-friendly society in the future.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-781	Madam President, I would like Right now, outside this building, the Stockholms are demonstrating for a more ambitious climate policy. One of the requirements is stopped Bypass Stockholm, or at least a slimmed and adapted Bypass Stockholm, so that resources do not crowd out the important investments in public transport. Next week, the UN's important climate summit will begin in Madrid. We all know that we must do more for the climate, and then the transport sector and those who believe that driving in big cities is a human right must understand that we cannot continue as we have done. In that case, infrastructure planning – although it is a long and complicated word – is one of our most important instruments, because that is where we build the future cities in which people should live and work. Therefore, I find it sad that the Minister does not want to give a concrete assignment to our responsible authority, Trafikverket, to come back with a revised plan for Bypass Stockholm that fits within our climate targets and within the budget. I also think that the issue of congestion tax is an issue in which the Minister must be much clearer. Today, most of the money goes to Bypass Stockholm, and we can't have that. The idea of the congestion tax is that we take money from mass carism and invest in the alternative, which is expanded public transport. Here the Minister could be very clear and say that future congestion tax revenues should go to public transport in the region and not to further motorway expansions. What does the minister responsible think about that?
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-786	Madam President, I would like Responsible Minister of State, Minister of Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth, believes that agreements should also be held. It is not for the government individually to change the conditions for congestion taxes. This is an agreement that has been made with local and regional representatives and with municipalities in the Stockholm region. It's important. I believe that the chairman of the Transport Committee also realises that this is a discussion that must be held between all the parties behind the funding, and not only by the Stockholm bypass but also, not least, by the financing of important metro projects. I think that must be the starting point. I note that the Left Party, which I can respect when you are in opposition, is standing between, on the one hand, stopping the Passage immediately, and, on the other hand, demanding a revised version. I would like to see what that stop would look like and how half a tunnel goes down at Skärholmen. Let us just say that we are in a situation where it is important to look ahead in order to reduce the cost increases that have been in the infrastructure objects. We need to see how we can ensure that we meet the climate requirements for the transport sector. We must ensure that we may have more resources in the future to make right and functioning infrastructure investments, and not only in the Stockholm region but throughout the country. Now that we spend 100 billion more than the bourgeois government did in national planes, it means efforts, not just in the Stockholm region. It is an investment in railway in Västerdalsbanan in the middle of Dalarna, Norrbotniabanan, Mittbanan and renovation of the bridge over the Great Hell. There are investments in the South East link between Älmhult and Olofström and down to Karlshamn. These are infrastructure investments so that the whole country can be involved in the transitions. It must not just be a discussion for the metropolitan area, because then we get yellow vests in many places in Sweden. We have to make sure that the whole country is in the transition. It's a city, and it's a country, and that's a transformation for all of Sweden. That is my starting point in the work we are doing on infrastructure investments. It should not just apply to Stockholm.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-792	Madam President, I would like Ali Esbati has asked me whether I intend to present an assessment of the additional costs already incurred by the Public Employment Service by the municipalities through reduced service, presence and predictability and whether the government intends to return with budget compensation to the municipalities for these additional costs and the additional costs that can be expected in the future with the winding-up of the Public Employment Service. A well-functioning labour market policy is crucial for Swedish adaptability, competitiveness and prosperity. The Public Employment Service will be reformed in accordance with the direction laid down in the substantive political agreement between the Social Democrats, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. The state's current role in labour market policy remains unchanged, but its performance changes. This means that the Public Employment Service will continue to have responsibility for labour market policy but that a new system, based on freedom of choice, will be developed where independent actors match and equip job seekers for the job vacancies. Reform is being carried out to improve the effectiveness of labour market policy activities. Through the Public Employment Service, the state has the responsibility to ensure that unemployed people who need support to get into work receive this regardless of where they live in the country. The Authority shall continue to provide services under its own responsibility until independent actors have established themselves throughout the country in accordance with the reform. At the same time, it is important that local authorities' efforts and activities aimed at facilitating the entry of individuals into the labour market are exploited. The Government has set up an investigation into the legal conditions for municipalities to participate in the implementation of state labour market policy. One starting point is that the division of responsibilities between central government and municipalities remains unchanged. The municipalities' possible participation is voluntary and takes place on behalf of and with compensation from Arbetsförmedlingen. In 2019, the conditions for labour market policy have changed. In the 2019 budget decided by Parliament, the scope for active labour market policy has been significantly reduced. The Council intends to provide funding for the coming years to mitigate the reduction in resources from the M- and KD-budgets. Among other things, it provides funds for labour market policy interventions such as labour market training, intensive years and additional services, as well as for start-up jobs for newly arrived and long-term unemployed. The Public Employment Service is also expected to have resources to maintain the pace of reform, prioritise long-termness and, at the moment, avoid further reductions. The reform will take place in an orderly and gradual manner. The employment services must be available throughout the country for jobseekers, employers and other actors. It is important that labour market policy activities continue to work well while the new system is in place. The re-reporting provided by the Swedish Public Employment Service, where they analyse the prerequisites for the reform, shows the complexity of the reform. Work is ongoing within the Government Office to analyse the Swedish Public Employment Service's report and the detailed design of the reform. The review will come back to the design of the new system.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-800	Madam President, I would like This is an interpellation debate that we are holding in a situation where the situation at Arbetsförmedlingen continues to be dramatic. That is also why the Left Party has followed it up with various types of initiatives in the Riksdag to try to stop the most ill-considered parts of the so-called reform that the government has embarked on together with its neoliberal cooperation parties. One of the major problems that we are already looking at is the financial impact of municipalities. It sounds bureaucratic, but it is therefore a question of people in need of support from the Public Employment Service and the support and active measures that the state has a responsibility to offer actually having to apply for municipal support. It is a direct problem for these individuals, but it also has a negative impact on the finances of municipalities. Money to be used for welfare services and other things is used for what the state should be responsible for, but it is not compensated by the state in this case. This comes on top of an economic policy which has failed to provide municipalities with the necessary resources required by demographic change in general. We have a situation where the state is sitting on quite a lot more money than the municipalities but where actual tasks are transferred, even if you say that it should not be so in theory. These are real people who get caught because the government has signed an agreement about implementing an ill-considered, extreme experimental policy, a policy that has soon been warned by everyone with knowledge and experience. And this, Madam President, is happening even now that the Employment Service is in a phase of preparation that has been both confused and confusing and that the government's non-governance has forced the agency into. This is something that the municipal councillors from various parties in widely different municipalities in Sweden have already warned about and pointed out the effect of – I mention several of them in my interpellation. If the government goes on to launch a full-scale privatisation policy, I think it is clear to everyone, with the possible exception of some in a branch of the Center Party, that this will create problems in the municipalities. Unfortunately, I think the Minister for Labour is evasive in his response. Yesterday, the Minister held a press conference with some positive signals on at least some of the issues that will affect the municipalities. However, my questions were more specific than that. Is it about presenting an assessment of the additional costs that have already been incurred by municipalities through reduced service, presence and predictability? Is there any attempt or plans to do so? It is both a question of increasing support for livelihoods and of the municipalities being forced to re-priority in their activities. They have their labour market policy units where you can expect them to have to do more, but you don't know what else to do. This involves costs for sometimes very small municipalities with very strained economies. The questions were also about possibly returning from the government's side with budget compensation to the municipalities for these additional costs. These, of course, are budgetary issues, but I believe that one must be able to present intentions and assessments on the part of a minister.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-807	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that I share the concerns expressed by Mr Ali here. In the almost three months that I have been Minister of Labour, I have tried very hard to understand both the situation on the authority and its impact on our municipalities. There is no doubt that the effects of the very rapid reduction of staff at the agency as a result of the 2019 budget voted through here in Parliament, but also the effects of the decisions that have been taken to close offices to an extent that has obviously not been desirable, are now beginning to appear. Here I share the interpellant's assessment: This is now beginning to become evident in many municipalities. I am thinking above all of what is crucial for it to work both for the citizen and for the good cooperation that has developed over the years between municipalities, the Public Employment Service and many other actors. For example, I have visited Malmö and looked at Malmökraften, a very fine example where Arbetsförmedlingen, Försäkringskassan, the municipality in the form of social services and actually also primary care cooperates. This means that instead of having four action plans and four contact persons with four different bodies, the individual receives a contact person and has an action plan. It is this type of important collaboration that it is important that we continue to ensure throughout Sweden. It produces good results for the individual, and it benefits both employment and our welfare. So I really do share this problem picture. I have also asked the officials of the Ministry of Labour because we have taken note of the analyses and data that have come from Sweden's Municipalities and Regions, as it is now called. For the supply support, the assessment is that it is not possible to draw obvious conclusions that the increase we see would depend solely on the Employment Service. However, it may be that we see indications of it. As Minister for Labour, I see that this is something that we really need to address. We must ensure that active labour market policies work throughout the country and that people receive the support they need. When people have their own livelihood, with the freedom that this gives, and can contribute to working life, we also get fewer people who need support for their livelihoods. In this way, the costs of municipalities are also reduced. I presented a number of comments yesterday, as Ali Esbati mentioned. For me, it is very important that we from the political side – and I really want to take that responsibility as Minister for Labour – ensure that there is a local presence throughout the country. In those places where the Employment Service has now closed offices or withdraws, the Authority must ensure that people can receive the support they need and can meet an employment intermediary if they need it. We must also ensure that cooperation is so important. The co-planning that I mentioned with examples from Malmökraft is absolutely central. Madam President, I would like I can only stress the importance of taking political responsibility now to ensure that the situation is moving towards the better.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-813	Madam President, I would like I think there are many people out there in the municipality of Sweden who listen carefully to what the Minister has to say today too, although it is Friday afternoon and dark November. I absolutely believe that many agree that it was a very irresponsible state budget that the Moderates and Christian Democrats presented and which the Swedish Democrats supported. At the same time, however, I think that many would agree that there is a limit to how much one can look back at that decision. Whatever the case, the government has a responsibility to act on the current situation. Nevertheless, the government has, let us remember, had two opportunities to come back with a draft budget that could go in a different direction. There are no additional administrative appropriations presented to Arbetsförmedlingen. This was done neither in connection with the spring change budget earlier this year nor in the proposal currently under discussion in the Riksdag for the State Budget 2020. This is a situation for which the government needs to take responsibility. I am convinced that the Minister is talking to many people out in Kommunsverige. The example she gave is very good. I also talk to people, and there is a great deal of concern that this type of collaboration will be broken down in a future reform of the Employment Service. This applies partly to the current chaotic situation for the staff – the biggest perception in the Swedish labour market this year is Arbetsförmedlingens, ironically enough – and partly to the fact that you do not really know what to do in the future. People have ended up in addition to those who have been given notice, but it is also very unclear what this kind of interaction between public actors should look like if one or more of those actors are commercial, profit-making activities. It is not easy to see how business secrets and the perfectly legitimate desire to profit in a private company should be combined with the need not to send different expenditure items between each other, which is the basis for such an interaction to work. I've talked to people from the financial coordination associations who do an important job where they work. There you are also very worried, quite concretely, about what this will mean in the future. I really believe that the government has said far too little about how this will be resolved in the future in a model based on the January agreement that the government holds so tight on. I would also like to emphasise that there is knowledge and experience at Arbetsförmedlingen which, if lost, will be very difficult to rebuild. Much of what makes it possible for workers to do a good job is that they know things about the local labour market and know what works and what doesn't work. In doing so, there are also great risks to what is happening today.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-819	Madam President, I would like For me, it is very important to emphasise the importance of a state labour market policy that exists throughout the country. For us Social Democrats, it is absolutely crucial. Job policy is about giving people the opportunity to make their own living with the freedom that it means being able to take part in the community, development and professional pride that also means working life. Basically, it is about strengthening Swedish competitiveness, creating growth and ensuring that we have a wealth that can be distributed. I would really like to say that we need a labour market policy that also takes account of what it looks like in different parts of the country. As far as I am concerned, when we are going to develop Arbetsförmedlingen, it is crucial that we do not rush through any work so that it goes fast and wrong. As the interpellant describes here, Madam President, we have received a report to the Government Office which was presented to me and the Ministry on 5 November. It wasn't many weeks ago. It is a solid material with a lot of complex questions about how we can develop a new system. It's important that we don't run too fast and it's wrong. It is important that we really analyse both risks and how we use taxpayers' money effectively. The interpellant points to very important issues that we need to deal with wisely. For my part, I think it's about us also needing – I said it yesterday – to see more signs put up. We really do need full certainty through the reform we are going to make the collaboration work in an effective and good way. An example of good collaboration is from when I was up in Boden last week and visited the municipality's job center. When you enter the shopping centre in the middle of town, you will meet people from the municipality who have different types of professional roles – from social security secretary to labour market consultants who will help you as a citizen if you are outside the labour market. The message from the municipality was: We welcome Arbetsförmedlingen here! I have seen with my own eyes how many municipalities really open up for the Public Employment Service. I think it's important to continue ensuring collaboration and that, in a situation that has been very tough for the agency's staff, we can be clear that the good collaboration needs to be ensured – both for the agency to be able to do a good job and for all the people who need it. It will then be more effective and more efficient use of taxpayers' money. As Minister for Labour, it is important for me to say that we will not launch any experiment. We will build on the experience that exists and that is good. Today we already have a system where there are several different performers. There are several independent actors who are important in labour market policy. It can be private actors, it can be folk high schools, it can be social enterprises and it can be non-profit and idea-based organisations. All of these are very important for us to be able to both equip and match people who need it to get a job.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-826	Madam President, I would like I think there are many questions to discuss. I think it is important to say that I and many people with me have a great deal of respect for the commitment of the Minister for Labour to these issues, not least from the time before she was Minister for Labour. However, I would like to be very clear about saying that this is very much about the possibility of having an active labour market policy in Sweden at all and a national responsibility for it. Therefore, we will take very seriously attempts to undermine that system, and we will do what we can as an opposition party to make this as good as possible. We will remind the government that it must have the support of Parliament for major changes. There will be a need to present credible proposals on how this is to be done in order to meet the goals that are said to have and avoid the pitfalls that so many stakeholders with knowledge and experience have pointed to. It is problematic if we are to shift things to the law of freedom of choice, which means the freedom of establishment of all kinds of actors. It is problematic if you have a timetable that is not credible and reasonable and is not followed up by financial resources. It is therefore the case that the government bears full responsibility and will have to bear that responsibility. At least that's my continuing message.
i-1708b08ddb9f18ff-829	Madam President, I would like Yesterday I had the privilege of presenting to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs how the work is currently being carried out within the Government Office in relation to Arbetsförmedlingen. This was both the situation and the reform. We are in a work where we analyse the report from Arbetsförmedlingen that we received a few weeks ago. We make careful analyses and considerations of our own. I also have two scheduled round-table discussions as early as next week. For me, it is important that we listen to the parties in the Swedish labour market, the disability movement and many other important organisations in this work, so that it does not get fast and wrong but really good and so that we can launch something better than what we have had. In connection with the meeting of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I also mentioned that I am happy to continue to come back. It is important that we have support in Parliament. It is also important for the Authority that there is political stability. It's been a really tough year for the agency's staff. I am tremendously impressed by both the loyalty and commitment that I face when I'm out, despite the tough conditions. From my point of view, it is therefore important, as I did yesterday, to describe the financial framework and that we can extend it for next year. We are also close to being able to present a new Director-General, and we will steer harder towards local presence in the regulatory letter that we will decide on later in December. Finally, I would like to thank Ali Esbati for a good debate, although it is a dark Friday afternoon. I wish you a nice weekend.
