i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-10	Madam President, I would like Hampus Hagman has asked me what measures the government will propose to ensure that the decision of the Tax Agency does not distort competition between public and private operators in healthcare. The question has been raised in the light of a position taken by the Swedish Tax Agency. The VAT rules on the exemption of health care are based on EU law and must comply with the VAT Directive. In a judgment, the Supreme Administrative Court has held that a temporary agency's hiring of doctors is taxable. The Court has interpreted the VAT Code in the light of EU law. The position of the IRS is the result of the judgment. There is a system of VAT compensation for municipalities and county councils. The system shall prevent private operators from being favoured or disadvantaged in relation to the general public. When the county council replaces private actors for healthcare activities, the county council receives a flat-rate compensation. The compensation shall compensate for the additional costs incurred when a private operator who has no right to deduct VAT carries out medical services for the county councils. There is therefore a system to counter distortions of competition. I therefore do not intend to propose any measures now, but the government will follow developments on this issue.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-15	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, for your answer! It was a straight answer, but it may not be surprising that I say that I am not very happy with it. I wrote this interpellation to highlight the great and unnecessary hassle that now affects parts of Swedish healthcare. The Swedish Tax Agency announced last autumn that VAT should be paid when hiring health care workers – this after a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court that the Swedish Tax Agency now interprets in a way that has major consequences for many actors. A group that is affected are specialists who cannot be employed full-time in one place but who, through agreements with several different actors, become full-time employees. Smaller hospitals in smaller towns in the country can maintain their medical skills thanks to doctors working as specialist consultants. That is why the Swedish Tax Agency's decision threatens the quality of care, at least in parts of our country. A reduced supply of care leads to even longer queues and risks for patients. In addition, it becomes more difficult to keep and recruit staff at a time when we already have major skills supply problems. The stakeholders concerned have, through their organisations, brought comments to the Swedish Tax Agency. Among other things, they asked for a long transition period to try to deal with the problem. The Swedish Tax Agency does not seem to have listened very much to what the healthcare companies put forward, but they admitted at least a certain period of transition, until 1 July this year, which indicates that they at least understand that this has major consequences. At present, many of the stakeholders, large and small, are preparing for the new rules. Forms need to be completed and agreements negotiated. Time that should have gone to the core business, the care, must instead be spent on dealing with the problems that have arisen. I would like to know what the government thinks about this. Does the government consider that the Swedish Tax Agency's decision contributes to better care throughout the country? Then, Madam President, I note that although the government does not see the problems that arise in the competitive situation, and therefore will not do anything, the government will still follow developments. This suggests that the government believes that there is something to follow, that there may be a problem here. Then I wonder: What is the development that needs to be followed, and what is required for the government to act?
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-23	Madam President, I would like The problem of obtaining permanent employees is very large in many county councils across the country, not least in our sparsely populated areas. Although renting doctors do good work there, they do not have the same opportunity to deliver high quality healthcare as permanent staff. There is a very big problem here with the distortion of competition, which Hampus Hagman has raised. Unfortunately, the distortion of competition to the detriment of permanent doctors. In fact, with the tax rules we have today, the 3:12 rules, a doctor who works as a hired doctor from his own company can have 100 000 in lower taxes than a permanent employee in a county council-run or privately run health care establishment. There is a great distortion of competition here which we really should do something about. We Social Democrats, together with the Green Party and the Left Party, proposed during the last parliamentary term to do something about this major distortion of competition, to the detriment of permanent doctors. Unfortunately, however, this stopped the Christian Democrats, together with other parties, from being able to implement. This is a major problem which we should really try to do something about, so that it is not such a distortion of competition to the detriment of permanent employees in relation to hired doctors. I hope that Hampus Hagman's interest in this issue will also make him want to do something about this problem, which is the major problem for health care around the country, in addition to the need for more resources. This government has great plans to increase resources for health care. Privately driven care and publicly driven care receive compensation for VAT in different ways. Public hospitals receive compensation for the actual costs of VAT, while private-run health institutions with hired staff receive a flat-rate allowance. Public health care will not be financially affected. On the other hand, private health care establishments that have hired staff may be affected. They receive a flat-rate allowance. An investigation has looked at the level of the flat-rate compensation and concluded that it is currently too high in relation to the real costs. There is, therefore, a distortion of competition here too, which makes it relatively more profitable to have hired staff in private health care establishments than to have them permanently employed in public health care. This distortion is reduced with this proposal. Hampus Hagman says that this is about unnecessary hassle, but let me point out that it is European law that has been interpreted in the judgment. The Supreme Administrative Court has thus interpreted the legislation that is governed by the European Union and that we as a nation have to deal with. Then it is the Tax Agency that interprets the judgment. The Government is, of course, following developments, but it is the EU legislation that makes the Swedish Tax Agency come up with its new position.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-31	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. There were several different tracks. We agree on the need for increased resources for health care. In the joint budget reservation of the Moderates and Christian Democrats, which went through here just before Christmas, resources for care were greatly increased. It is also true that taxes on labour need to be reduced in order to reduce differences in taxation depending on how you work. However, I noted that Magdalena Andersson avoided the question of how she believes that the Swedish Tax Agency's decision, which is indeed an interpretation of a judgment, affects Swedish healthcare. I also did not really hear what is going to prompt the government to act. In her second speech, Magdalena Andersson was very concerned about the competition between different types of healthcare providers depending on whether the care is public or private. Competition neutrality is an important part of the agreement made by S with C, L and MP. Paragraph 61 of the Agreement states that there shall be competition neutrality between public and independent healthcare providers in terms of both economic conditions and the functioning of licensing and quality requirements. We are now sticking to the economic conditions because that is where the VAT issue is included. The Minister for Finance would like to point out the flat-rate compensation, which she believes is a system that prevents distortions of competition. It is true that there is a flat-rate compensation, but it is a blunt tool that does not reflect the real costs for the individual operator. Nor is there any guarantee that a private operator will benefit from this standard. In fact, the level of compensation differs considerably from one region to another. For example, Sörmland has twice as much compensation as Uppsala. This is to be compared with the regional operations, which receive the remuneration crown for the crown. So I do not agree with the Minister for Finance in his description that we have a system that prevents distortions of competition. I believe that the intentions set out in paragraph 61 are not fulfilled. However, in response to the Minister for Finance, it sounds like the government considers that the intentions are met, at least in terms of economic conditions. Let me therefore ask the Minister for Finance: is this a correct interpretation of the answer given by the Minister for Finance? Does the government believe that there is today a competitive neutrality between public and independent healthcare providers in terms of economic conditions?
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-37	Madam President, I would like No, there is no neutrality of competition. There are many different ways of looking at competitiveness neutrality, but I have pointed out two. Firstly, an investigation concluded that the flat-rate compensation is too high. It is thus a distortion of competition in favour of private operators. Secondly, hired doctors may have a tax that is 100 000 lower if they are leased from their own company compared to whether they are permanent employees. Here, too, there is a distortion of competition in favour of private health care.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-38	Madam President, I would like That was again a clear and straightforward answer, although I am not satisfied with it. I would like to see reduced taxes on labour, something I think is very important. I will conclude by stating that there are still questions that have not been answered in the past. Let me also ask you a question about the supply of skills, which is very important. I mentioned it as hastily in my first speech. Many of those affected by this have come up in the years but have a great deal of expertise and are happy to continue working. They may want to go down a little in working time and would rather assist with their services as consultants than as employees because they can then influence their working hours in a completely different way. Now it is going to be considerably more difficult for this group to work, and we risk many competent people dropping out. Does the government see this risk, and how will it act if it does?
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-42	Madam President, I would like The investigation that looked at the flat-rate reimbursement concluded that it would be too complicated to have compensation for actual costs instead of a flat-rate reimbursement in the way we have for county-run care. Here, then, it was a simple argument that was the basis for continuing with stencils rather than having them in a different way. The same investigation also concluded that the stencil was somewhat high. As Hampus Hagman mentioned, different county councils handle this in different ways, and this applies not only to the standard but to the conditions under which this type of care is procured, which is also governed by the procurement rules that exist. Different county councils thus handle this differently, and Hampus Hagman obviously has every opportunity in the world to influence his Christian Democratic colleagues in the county councils to push the issue in the direction Hampus Hagman wants. All this points to the fact that we have too much problem with hired personnel. Sweden should really take a strong step to try to overcome this problem. Although the hired staff are doing their very best, it has no chance of providing as good care and care as permanent doctors who have continuous contact with patients. If it is something that this House should agree on, it is taking a strong stance against the hired staff. A major problem to overcome this is the fact that it is more fiscally beneficial to be hired from your own company than to be a permanent employee. Reimbursing this with lower taxes on income would dig quite large holes in the treasury, and we Social Democrats tend to try to have order in the treasury when we are responsible for the state finances – unlike some other government constellations.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-47	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me whether I intend to introduce the tax reduction for gifts on 1 July 2019 in accordance with Parliament's announcement. The Riksdag decided on 12 December 2018 to announce that the Government will return with proposals to reintroduce tax reduction for donations to non-profit activities in accordance with the proposal presented in the 2012 Budget Bill, but without application and annual fees for gift recipients. The rules shall enter into force on 1 July 2019 in accordance with the notification. On 18 January, the Ministry of Finance referred the memorandum Reimbursed tax reduction for donations to non-profit activities. The memorandum proposes to reintroduce the tax reduction on 1 July 2019 in accordance with the Notice. The referral period expires on 15 February 2019 and follows the usual preparation.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-48	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. When deductible gifts were introduced in 2012, it was a long-awaited reform. It had been discussed in the Swedish parliament since the 1950s. I have not been in Parliament since the 1950s but since 1998, and I am one of those who have fought for this because I think it is very important. When it was introduced in 2012, 73 organisations active in research and relief activities were approved as gift recipients. D EUR 600 million in the form of a global loan for the financing of small and medium scale projects. Also, the monthly giving to the organizations increased, by an average of 30 percent. When the deduction was introduced in 2012, we are actually the last country in the EU to do so. In the rest of Europe, it is available for both individuals and businesses. A great deal was done away with tax-deductible gifts four years later. We in the Christian Democrats and the Moderates wrote a joint budget reservation highlighting civil society and the social benefits of the non-profit organisations and showing them that the tax deduction had a good effect. Giving to charitable purposes increased. There were widespread protests from non-profit organisations when the deduction was to be removed, but nevertheless it was chosen to remove it. In December, however, a reintroduction was voted through. I think the answer is positive and thank you for that, but I would like to ask you a question. We know that it has been taken for a referral, which expires next week or in ten days, quite rightly. This issue involves thousands of people and many non-profit organisations. B Does it mean that it is going according to plan and that the Council intends to do so, so that it can do so from 1 July? I just want to double-check and hear from the Finance Minister's own mouth what it means. I had the parliamentary investigation service look at what this has meant for the organisations. It turned out that, for example, Plan Sweden and Stockholm's Stadsmission had received approximately SEK 15 million annually in new revenues through the gift tax deduction. The cancer fund's that it takes is an important issue for us to have a strong non-profit sector in Sweden. Unicef s a that individuals and companies who spend their own resources to contribute to a better world are some way to be encouraged. The Red Cross said in its reply to the parliamentary inquiry service to my question that it is very important that the right to deduct be kept as it has a very positive effect both on the amount of the grants and on how many people choose to donate money and that the proceeds are crucial for financing one of their activities. In conclusion, does the answer given by the Minister of Finance indicate that it is going according to plan and that everything indicates that this will be implemented on 1 July?
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-54	Madam President, I would like Before there is an agreement on anything else, of course, we work in accordance with the Riksdag's announcement. It is necessary for a normal processing process to be carried out, and to see what comments the consultation bodies have on the proposal. The information I have, which is not per organisation, is that giving has continued to increase even after the deduction was removed. D it is possible that RUT has other figures for NGOs that in some way suffered from a decrease in giving after the deduction was removed in 2016, m a general continued giving to increase between 20 16 and 20 17, after the abolition.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-56	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. The right of deduction helps more people to give more. There are several examples of organizations in Sweden that increase their collection thanks to the right to deduct. In other countries we see that tax e incentives increase the willingness to donate money, little surprised. What we are involved in and subsidise is to go to the recipients, i.e. the organisations, get more money and can carry out more activities that contribute to a better society, both in Sweden and in the world. If we look at the rest of the world, we can see that the association Frii, the collection council of voluntary organisations, is part of an organisation called Efa, which carried out a review of all the countries in the EU, which was completed on 31 December. Among these countries – Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Switzerland and so on – it is clear that Sweden is coming out. In all countries, except Sweden, there are deductible gifts, also for companies. What we are being struck by, Madam President, is that we are also coming out with regard to the low levels we have had. In the rest of Europe – the countries that I got up to – the average of what an individual can give is deductible from between 10% and 20% of income. In Norway, the amount was increased from the equivalent of SEK 13 000 to SEK 20 000 in 2015, and has now been increased to SEK 40 000. So undemocratic a government has not changed this. When the Social Democrats in Denmark were in power a few years ago, the possibility of giving gifts was increased. My hope is that we can come to a situation where this is not party separation but something of course – that we should have just as good conditions in this country for donations to non-profit activities as the rest of Europe. There are many needs that are not met. D is great with all the employees we have in municipalities, the state and so on, m a de n non-profit sector means a lot. When you give to someone you get involved and wonder how it goes. We have seen that the organisations get more to help in the business. I believe that this is important in terms of how we can support voluntary activities. I am therefore pleased to hear that the Minister for Finance has agreed that this will be carried out in accordance with an order made by Parliament. Then comes the next step, which is heard on my argumentation. I don't see this as an end point. There was a right to deduct in Sweden during the alliance years when you could give up to SEK 6 000, of which 1 500 was deductible. But we need to do so in other countries and increase the levels. In Norway, for example, in principle all donations to nonprofit activities are deductible a.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-64	Madam President, I would like The non-profit sector plays a very important role in our society. It is important that we have a general visit and that we a school, healthcare and care and our municipalities and county councils support all residents. In addition, the nonprofit sector plays an important role in many areas to support individuals but also to carry out research and other activities. S the vice-chancellor is run by many non-profit forces and also by individuals who make contributions to organizations. There the Swedes have become more and more generous. We see that more and more money is being given to the non-profit organisations. I have been able to believe that it has increased in recent years since the deduction was introduced, but it has also increased since the deduction was abolished. It is wonderful that we, the Swedish people, seem to be giving both with and without a tax deduction. When it comes to spending tax money also on our non-profit organisations, there is no political divide, but the political divide between the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats is about how to decide where public funds for non-profit organisations should go. Is this something to be determined by the elected representatives here in Parliament, or is it to be determined by individuals who have such a high income that they can donate SEK 2 000 a year to a non-profit organization? Who will decide where to put our public money? Are they individuals rich, or are they our elected representatives in Parliament? There goes the ideological dividing line. On the other hand, we agree that we should support our non-profit organisations and that they are doing an important job, and it is amazing that there is support in this House for it. Having said that, I have also noted that we Social Democrats do not have a majority of our own in this House, but, of course, we must compromise. The fact that we have no agreement other than to introduce this means that I have therefore also submitted this referral.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-68	Madam President, I would like This is a question of broad folk philanthropy. It has turned out that tens of thousands of people have used this, which has meant that these organisations – Save the Children, the Red Cross, the Cancer Fund, the City Mission here in the city and around the country – have received more funding. That's why these organizations can help more people without a lot of administration. One of the proposals in the M – KD budget was that the fee for entering the system of SEK 10 000 and an annual fee of SEK 7 000 should be removed. This will allow even more, even less, organisations to be involved in this. It is so important that these things complement each other. We have not opposed money coming from the state or the municipality. But it is also so important that power is given to the individual. Whether you give 200 or 2,000 SEK a month to, for example, the Swedish Cancer Society or Stockholm City Mission, you are involved in giving and helping. This shall be encouraged. It's so important. It is therefore my hope that we will have it as in other countries, such as Norway and Denmark, where this is no longer party politics. This goes without saying. Regardless of the party color, you are involved in ensuring that the non-profit organizations get good conditions, and you help them to help more people. It is my hope that we will get there in this country too.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-71	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson says that these organisations have received more funding with this reform. But it is a little difficult to lead this in evidence, because generosity increased even after this tax credit was abolished. So it does not seem to be quite obvious if you look at the facts that it is in this way. However, it is amazing that many Swedes are generous and want to share – those who have the opportunity – with our non-profit organisations. In addition to the fact that people donate money, very many people make important non-profit contributions in these organisations. This makes Sweden a better society. We can agree there too. It is also good that Mikael Oscarsson supports the additional resources that the previous government has just provided for the non-profit sector because it is an important part of our viable civil society. Instead, the arbitration line goes elsewhere. When we have public funds to go to non-profit organisations, who is to decide how this money is to be distributed? Mikael Oscarsson speaks of power to the individual. Such a deduction means that it is the donor who decides where public funds should go. There, Mikael Oscarsson thinks that the people who can afford to donate over SEK 2,000 a month – these individuals – should decide how to use our common tax funds. But we Social Democrats think it is our elected assemblies that should decide how to use our common funds. The question is: Should individuals with high incomes decide individually about our common resources, or should our elected representatives do so? It is clear that we Social Democrats stand up because it is the elected representatives, who represent not only those on high incomes but the whole population, both adults and our young people, who are to decide on this.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-73	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to clarify the existence of bilateral defence guarantees between Sweden and the United States. As you know, I signed a letter of intent, the Statement of Intent, on enhanced defence cooperation with former US defence minister Ashton Carter in June 2016. The document was based on the wording of the defence policy proposal 2016 – 2020, which emphasises that it is in the Swedish interest to maintain and further deepen the bilateral relationship with the US. Five areas are highlighted for enhanced cooperation, which are also reflected in the letter of intent: interoperability, exercises and training, materiel cooperation, research and development, and international operations. Our bilateral cooperation with the United States is of great importance, particularly in view of the important role of the United States in security in Europe, its military capabilities and technical know-how, and its important role in international operations. In the light of the extensive cooperation between Finland and Sweden and our in-depth defence cooperation with the USA, it is rational to also conduct a joint Swedish-Finnish dialogue with the USA. The trilateral format aims to add value to our bilateral cooperation, for example through exercise activities. In addition, a trilateral dialogue leads to increased transparency and signals that countries jointly assume responsibility for security in the Baltic Sea region. This is reflected in the trilateral declaration of intent, SOI, which I signed with Finland's Minister of Defence Jussi Niinistö on 8 May 2018. Trilateral cooperation complements our respective bilateral cooperation with the United States. Cooperation creates the conditions to be able to act together. In view of the question raised, I would like to emphasise that cooperation with the United States does not involve defence obligations. The security and defence cooperation that Sweden has entered into is important for the overall security policy. It is well known that our security is being built in collaboration with others. EU cooperation, our partnership with NATO, cooperation with the Nordic countries, where Finland occupies a special position, and the transatlantic link are central elements of Swedish security policy. Cooperation is further deepened with the UK and Germany. The recently adopted vision for Nordic defence cooperation, Nordefco, demonstrates the importance of a strengthened transatlantic partnership. Sweden maintains its security policy line. Sweden is based on the military freedom of alliance one when we cooperate with other countries. Based on this position, we are pursuing an active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy combined with enhanced defence cooperation and a gradual strengthening of national defence capabilities.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-80	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Before commenting on this, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Defence for keeping his position in the new Red-Green Government as well. It is always good in politics when you get to pursue what you have started. I therefore wish him the best of luck.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-81	Madam President, I would like The background to this interpellation is that ever since Peter Hultqvist and Jussi Niinistö were in Washington last spring there have been rumours in social media and speculations in our big newspapers that what took place in Washington had led to Sweden now receiving defence guarantees from the United States. I am one of those who believe that when it comes to European countries, the United States always refers to membership of NATO when it comes to indirectly obtaining such defence guarantees from the United States. That is why I have been a little surprised by the discussion that has taken place. I have also noted that the government and the Minister for Defence have not fully and quite clearly chosen to refute the rumours that have been spread, and the reason for my interpellation was that I wanted to give the Minister for Defence the opportunity of a demention in this House. Nevertheless, Madam President, I am not entirely satisfied with the answers. In the written response to the interpellation, the Minister for Defence writes among other things: I have gone through the trilateral letter of intent, which is on the government's website in an English version, and I have not discovered that the expression That is why, of course, I wonder what the Minister for Defence is referring to in that part. The next paragraph emphasises that cooperation with the United States does not involve defence obligations. I would have been grateful if the Minister for Defence had been clear and said that there are no obligations on any side and not at all between the counterhenters who have made the declaration of intent. That would have been a clarification. The paragraph then states that the security and defence cooperation that Sweden has entered into is important for the overall security policy. Then my question about the Minister of Defence in the expression is included, that Sweden has been included, also includes the letter of intent or whether it is only an accident that that particular expression is used in a subsequent paragraph.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-86	Madam President, I would like Mr Widman congratulated the Minister for Defence for his continuation. I do not know whether to congratulate, and perhaps not to regret, Peter Hultqvist's continuing as Minister for Defence – that is by no means my government, Madam President. On the other hand, Allan Widman raises some interesting questions, and it is worth recalling what he said. In connection with the trilateral signing in Washington DC, there was a lot of media information about what was said and done and what was meant by it. As Allan Widman said, it has in no way been tried to put it right or to deny it. I think that the answer given today by the Secretary of Defence gives a nuance to the newspaper articles in connection with the Washington DC meeting. That is probably exactly the way the Secretary of Defense says it is. In view of the question raised, I would like to emphasise that cooperation with the United States does not involve defence obligations. It is regrettable, but it is probably the most realistic answer. There is only one way of getting binding defence obligations and support, Madam President, and that is, of course, through NATO membership. Anything else you can wish for, hope for and want, but only with membership can you know that such binding defence obligations exist. Therefore, I think we should not try to mix the cards away. Let's be honest. I also think that the Secretary of Defense has been, although some newspaper articles in connection with the Washington DC meeting could lead us to believe that things were different. Then I fully agree that our bilateral cooperation with the United States is of great importance, Madam President. It is very important. That is why my call to this government is: do not lose that relationship! You now have to deal with the nuclear ban investigation and what to do with it, and it is an important choice for our relations with other countries and with strategically important allies. So don't lose it! Believe in the words you write! It is the case, Madam President, that much in the Swedish defence discussion is about what you might call a lot of waiting for. If something serious happens, we know that we ourselves have the ability, but it is based on receiving support and help from others – that is, pending. If you do not then have any binding defence obligations and if you do not have any promises that give solid ground under your feet, it is clear that you have to think about what it is ultimately that gives Swedish security additional dimensions. I believe it would be a Swedish NATO membership. Finally, the Minister for Defence says that there is a need for active, broad and responsible foreign and security policy I must therefore say that I am pleased to note, Madam President, that the staircase presented by the Moderates and Christian Democrats in a budget that came to be described as a napkin sketch is now the basis of this government's defence policy in the coming years. We must be pleased that the Moderates and the Christian Democrats produced a napkin sketch, Madam President, and caused the House to approve that budget. We now have a stairway up in terms of continuous defence efforts.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-93	Madam President, I would like I don't think that Wallmark is the man who should teach me when it comes to neglecting connections. During the eight years of Wallmark's direct influence on government policy, none of what we have built up today with the United States through these two agreements took place. None of this happened in the way that has happened now. The deepening that has taken place during this parliamentary term is very clear and very comprehensive, and it contributes – regardless of what Widman and Wallmark think – to stability and responsibility in this part of Europe. The recurrent participation in the training activities has such a signal effect and such an effect. When we build interoperability, it is also something we can use in a given situation. If there had been a different record of deepening with the United States during the government period, Wallmark could have been taken seriously, but that is not the case. We are the ones who have done the job on this point, and I am not going to do that at all – even for a minute – ashamed of or let me be tangled around. I have informed the Committee on Defence about what these agreements and SOIs mean. I've never given anyone a different picture of it than what was in the agreement. Newspaper articles about both one and the other, sometimes of varying quality, are the responsibility of others. Nor have I taken part in any debates where I have given any other idea of the agreements than what has been the actual content. However, I understand the background to this interpellation and the debate you want to create, Allan Widman and Hans Wallmark. You want to reduce the importance of the agreements we have signed and the extensive in-depth work we have done over the past four years on international issues. The deepening with Finland that has taken place is also unique and far from what you achieved during the eight years of government. It has a bearing on the stability of our part of Europe. Our relationship with the Baltic countries is important. This also applies to Poland and Germany. The great agreement we have with the United Kingdom and, finally, what we have now done with the United States has a stabilising effect and affects the safety of our part of Europe. You can imagine the situation if we had done nothing – if we had not taken action at all and had not concluded these agreements. I therefore believe that this perspective must also be seen. A great deal of work has been done on this point. Of course, you can stand in the speaker's chair and take credit for both the one and the other. But I can promise you, Wallmark, the money for the defense would have come anyway. Then it was that you were involved in laying down how it should be done in the so-called transitional budget, where we had strong restrictions on how this should be put in place. We would present a neutral budget which would basically only confirm the situation as it was. We were thus prevented from making a more profiled political budget in that situation. The fact that you now want to take advantage of the situation for your own profile-building measures is probably part of the political game, but in the deal we have reached with the Liberals, the Centers and the Green Party, the money lies with it. At least they'd come. To say something positive, I think it is quite good that there is such a broad majority in the Swedish parliament in terms of the economy in this area. Instead of trying to make fun of yourself or enhance yourself at the expense of others, one might enjoy the broad unity.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-99	Madam President, I would like It's a little side by side with my interpellation, but I'm gonna put the Secretary of Defense right on this point. There was a readiness from the old government to significantly increase the defence budget for this year. However, it came down to the fact that it was a transitional government. It is perhaps a bit of an irony that social democrats and environmentalists, together with liberals and center parties, are now committed to implementing an M- and KD budget, but that is exactly how it is. Six parties in this Parliament are behind the defence economy for the next three years. Madam President, I would like I noted that the Minister for Defence did not answer my question about the wording. Is it the case that the United States and Sweden, through this trilateral, have undertaken to take responsibility for the safety of the Baltic Sea? It's in his answer. I also wonder, of course, whether Sweden as a nation has entered into some form of cooperation with regard to this agreement. Or is this really just an agreement between the defence ministers involved and their departments? After all, all agreements concluded internationally must be concluded by the government, according to the form of government, and, as far as I am aware, there is no government decision on this. Bi- and multilateral cooperation is important. When the Minister for Defence comes to the Defence Committee nowadays, these collaborations are so incalculable that it takes Excelark to account for which countries we have entered into various bi- and multilateral agreements with. This is good, Madam President. However, this does not lead to defence guarantees, something that Sweden is in extraordinary need of. When I see that there is no will on the part of the Social Democrats to take the last little decisive step into NATO and become a member, I therefore see that the cooperation we have, which is peacetime cooperation, is really only to cover up the fact that we are not in NATO and therefore do not have defence guarantees. This, Madam President, is something of a fig leaf in this context. The Nuclear Weapons Convention came into this context, and it was good that it happened. It has the potential to destroy good and trustful cooperation between, for example, Sweden and the United States. Madam President, I would like I read the summary in the investigation that ambassador Lars-Erik-Erik Lundin did that was released a few weeks ago. I have to say that it was one of the worst cuts of a commercial that I have seen investigated internally in a department. One can almost ask which part of no the government does not understand when this investigator expresses himself. Then it is a little worrying and distressing that this investigation is now going out for a referral. It will prolong the uncertainty in our relationship not only with the United States but also with other of our closest friends. Finally, Madam President, the Minister for Defence said in his reply that Sweden is based on the freedom of military alliance when we cooperate with other countries. This locomotive is different from that used by the Prime Minister in the Government Declaration. There military alliance freedom is said to serve our country well. Is there a difference in substance?
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-109	Madam President, I would like I think perhaps the Secretary of Defense is a little unnecessarily quarrelsome. I am in no way criticising the government or the Minister for Defence for the desire and willingness to deepen cooperation with the countries listed by the Minister for Defence, including the United States. On the contrary, I think it is good that we are strengthening the ties; there is absolutely no reason to criticise the government on this point from my point of view. What I stressed was: let us protect them! There is now a potential threat in the form of the nuclear ban, the so-called NBT. But let's see how it's done! I would like to make the following call, Madam President: let us in this House compete to realise the maximum number of good relations! In this way, our own Swedish security will also increase. The absolute best and most elegant way to do this is to get binding defence guarantees. It is not a question of hoping, believing or wishing for them, but of actually acquiring them, and this is done through Swedish NATO membership. However, we know that there are political blockages on the other side. I also share the view of the Minister for Defence that it is a question of broadening the perspective of cooperation and cooperation areas. It's about the Nordic region – from a natural perspective – and about the Nordic and Baltic countries. Then it grows out of what we usually describe as the northern flank with Poland, Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Moreover, as it happens, most of these countries are part of NATO. We talked a little bit about money. It is said that there was every thought of implementing a stairway similar to that which the Moderates and the Christian Democrats led this House to vote in favour of. I have just one question: Why did they torment themselves so much during the 2018 election campaign so as not to give any answers? It was always during the 2018 election campaign that the answer was guilty of what the defence economy would look like. But let us look at it this way: now we agree on this. Perhaps we can continue to agree, because my party is behind the idea and the idea that 2% of the bnp should go to defence expenditure.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-115	Madam President, I would like In fact, I want just one thing when I mark a little towards Mr Wallmark: to bring down the tone in such a way that it becomes a little more nuanced and does not give much space to a more propagandist moderate image. I think it is one way of trying to clean up and structure the political debate to reasonable levels. As far as Widman is concerned, thank you for your congratulations. I can also say that it was good that Widman said that this money had come anyway. They were in the first round when we negotiated with the Liberals, the Centers and MPs, and that was no problem. Wallmark may well continue to think about why one thing was not said at the time he thought it should be said but at the time it happened. Now, however, we see the result, and I am pleased with a broad consensus in Parliament. The Nuclear Weapons Convention is now, according to the usual regulations, on the table. Then we will have to gather it together when the consultation is completed. I've read the investigation and followed the discussion very carefully. We will have to return to these discussions when the inquiry's referral is completed and when we have all the referrals in place. We have done a lot of work to build these collaborations because we believe they are necessary to cope with Sweden's security and stability in the Nordic region. For example, responsibility is to develop interoperability that can be used in the event of a crisis. Responsibility is to practice together on a continuous basis to give safety policy signals in this way but also to give our staff the opportunity to be in an environment where they can develop their skills in a completely different way from what can be done with only national exercises. Responsibility is also to build long-term equipment collaborations. These are dimensions in all these things that create both security policy signaling effects and opportunities for collaboration if such decisions are made in a crisis situation. If these things have not been done before a crisis occurs, then in practice there is no possibility of doing anything together if you think it is necessary. Therefore, what we do with Finland, for example, weekly and continuous, is extremely important. That's why cross-border training with Norway and Finland every week at the North Calott on the airside is extremely necessary. Therefore, the exercises in the Baltic countries in which we participate are also very necessary, as is the cooperation we have with other countries. This develops our capabilities and puts us in a security policy network that may be available in a crisis situation. As regards the Prime Minister's wording and what I am saying, there is no difference of opinion between us in any sense. We have the same basis for our reasoning. What I am saying and the policy that we are pursuing is actually anchored in the Riksdag, in its orientation decision of May 2015. We in the government have followed it as meticulously as we have been able to, and based on what the Riksdag said there.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-125	Madam President, I would like It was then a direction and an agreement that the Liberals were not included in and therefore not covered by. Peter Hultqvist says that bourgeois governments have done nothing. It was a bourgeois government that initiated Sweden to become a member of the Partnership for Peace in the 1990s. This in itself was a prerequisite for the whole so-called PARP process, that is, that we would gradually become more and more interoperable with NATO. Madam President, I would like My point is that without membership of NATO we will never be fully interoperable. Interoperability also requires political interdependency – interdependence is perhaps a better and a little more modern expression. So, however much we will try, we are fully interoperable only when membership of NATO is in place. Otherwise, there's nothing wrong with exercises. There's nothing wrong with cooperation. I have now asked Peter Hultqvist a number of times: What is it like? Have the countries included in this agreement decided jointly to take responsibility for the safety of the Baltic Sea? I do not find such a task in the trilateral text, the letter of intent. Peter Hultqvist says that we are now in the usual order to conduct referrals to Lars-Lars-Erik Lundin's investigation. Yeah, now's the time. But when Tomas Bertelman or Krister Bringéus investigated our security policy collaborations, there were no customary referrals. One might wonder why, Madam President.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-131	Madam President, I would like I say for the third time: responsibility linked to the outcome of interoperability, exercise activities, cooperation on materials and many other dimensions of cooperation. It's not some kind of game we're doing. It's serious in every exercise. I say to the staff, the soldiers, when I meet them: now put what you are doing into a greater security policy scenario, and assess the security policy signal in what you are doing. Then it will be something completely different than just an ordinary exercise. It is also in this way that we should consider all parts of the international exercise that we are involved in and in contact with the United States. In practice, this will be a matter of responsibility. The fact that it does not then become exactly the way Widman wants it to be is another matter. But this is the real substance of it all. With regard to NATO, I would just like to say that a change in security policy doctrine affects the whole security policy situation in one area. If Sweden changes its security policy doctrine and seeks membership of NATO, an immediate pressure will be put on Finland. They also have the very long border with Russia and experience of how it can be. I do not think it makes sense for us to act in such a way that we put such pressure on Finland. Nor is it wise to act in such a way that we automatically contribute to an increased tension in our part of Europe. On the other hand, it is wise to stand by our security policy doctrine, raise national capacities, deepen our cooperation, bilaterally and multilaterally, and thus build security in practice. We have no offensive intentions. We intend to respect international law and international law. That is the fundamental thing for Sweden.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-137	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me what measures the government intends to take in the short and long term to address the shortage of teachers in Sweden. Roger Haddad has also asked whether the government will ensure that the Teacher Lift II initiative is reintroduced and permanentised to increase the proportion of qualified teachers. The lack of teachers is one of the biggest challenges facing the school system. Therefore, during the previous parliamentary term, the government carried out a series of efforts to strengthen the teaching profession and to make more people want to become and remain teachers. Among other things, a substantial expansion of pre-school and teacher education was started throughout the country so that more people can be given the opportunity to study as pre-school teachers and teachers. The government has also invested in more ways into the teaching profession, for example through more places in the complementary educational education, the KPU. Anyone who chooses such an education can now study with the higher level of benefit within the student funds. Now we also see that the number of graduates from the KPU is increasing, which is positive. Further education for teachers, VAL, is an effort that the government chose to extend and develop and which aims to increase the proportion of qualified teachers in the Swedish school system. Supplementary training for persons with completed foreign training, sometimes called ULV, is an effort that has been expanded, and the rules governing the training were made more appropriate during the last term of office. Teachers and preschool teachers returning to the profession may need support. Therefore, the Swedish National Agency for Education was commissioned in 2017 to design a web-based education that enables them to update their knowledge of the steering documents in Swedish preschools and schools. Madam President, I would like Efforts to reduce the shortage of teachers, both in the short and long term, will need to continue. The Teacher Lift II was due to be completed in 2018, but in the 2018 budget proposal funds were set aside for a continuation of the Teacher Lift II also in 2019. The position has not yet been taken into account for a possible further continuation. In the January agreement on which the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Center Party and the Liberals have just agreed, there are several proposals for more teachers. Among other things, it mentions improved opportunities to work at a school in parallel with studying as a teacher and the proposal for a professional programme for teachers and principals based on the report "Teaching skills at the centre – a framework for the professional development of teachers and principals" (SOU 2018:17). I now look forward to fruitful discussions and good cooperation between us parties on how to cope with the task we face.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-145	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Education Anna Ekström for her answer to my interpellation. The Liberals submitted the interpellation with a number of concrete questions about the supply of teachers and the recruitment of teachers. It is not really very much about the design of the teacher education specifically, but we want to raise the acute problem of the teacher shortage in Swedish schools. It's nothing new. It has been known for many years. Different numbers from the National Agency for Education show that within five years we need to recruit 80 000 teachers. In view of the fact that only about 8 000 teachers are trained per year, the enormous challenge and problem facing our principals, municipalities and independent schools will be recognised. I would like to say that they are already facing it. Why are we eager to follow this up nationally, in a better way? When we look at what the picture really looks like, we only get forecasts from the National Agency for Education. Forecasts and assumptions are made. You go in and look at 20 to 30 different municipalities or principals at a time. So there is not really a comprehensive picture of how serious the situation is. It's a flaw. I would therefore like to ask the Government whether there are initiatives to monitor the proportion of competent and unauthorised persons even better from the national level. Then it is not enough to look at how many have a teacher's degree. At least as important is what it looks like with the subject competence around the country. There it varies very strongly. Why, then, am I anxious to raise this issue? Because we already have problems with equivalence. This situation, which is also getting worse, directly contributes to a non-equivalent school where all students lose out. Those who need the most help do not get the help they need and those who need a push forward, the high-performance students, also do not get the right help when skills and qualified teachers are lacking, on the contrary. We were last able to read about this in the issue of Dagens Samhälle that came in November 2018. There it was pointed out that the proportion of unauthorised persons is increasing. They had looked at 1,500 schools and saw that at the schools with the toughest challenges and with those who would especially need the best teachers, the proportion of unauthorized teachers or such with almost no or very short teacher experience increases. They come directly from teacher training and into a very tough teaching assignment and cannot cope with the situation. Given that the proportion of unauthorised persons is increasing rapidly again, we in the Liberals want the National Teacher Lift II – the competence effort for which the state is responsible – to become permanent. One-year, short-term decisions are not enough in the way that Anna Ekström's government, in our view, has dealt with this issue. I am not satisfied with the answer that the government has not yet taken a position. Whatever happens then, the Government itself must have an idea of whether it is important for this to be permanent. I believe that many municipalities want to know this and that they are calling for increased government investment in the teaching profession.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-153	Madam President, I would like Of the problem description that Roger Haddad makes of what happens when Swedish school lacks teachers, I can sign a lot. We have a major problem with the supply of teachers. We have a shortage of teachers, and we see very great recruitment needs ahead of us. I am convinced that Roger Haddad, in turn, agrees with me when I say that this is a problem that we have been building up for quite a long time. I think there are several of us who have reason to look at how we have managed our own affairs in government. The major regional differences are a fact. When you look at the statistics, it is clear that the conditions are very different in terms of the supply of teachers in rural areas compared to the big city and in a vulnerable area compared to a richer area. This is also the way Roger Haddad says that one of the really big problems of the teacher shortage is that it contributes to and probably is reinforced by the lack of equivalence that exists in Swedish schools. When the OECD reviews the Swedish school and its results, it is noted that Sweden is characterized by the fact that the most experienced teachers are found in those schools where the needs may not be greatest. In schools where the needs are greatest, however, you will often find both inexperienced teachers and inexperienced principals. Perhaps it is a subject of another interpellation debate. Furthermore, Roger Haddad complains that the Teacher Lift has been given by one year at a time. If this is a criticism that Roger Haddad has against the previous term of office, I would like to point out, although I do not really like it when it is done, that this type of one-year investment in professional training is something that the previous alliance government also carried out with great success – at least if one-year-oldness is taken as a sign of success. Roger Haddad asks me to answer the question of what the forthcoming preparation will be like as to whether the Teacher Lift should be extended. I can only point out that whatever I think about it, we have at the Government Office preparation procedures that are very important. Finally, I would like to give a message of joy to Roger Haddad. In the January agreement between our two parties and the Centre Party and the Green Party, which forms the basis for the current government, there are good opportunities to cooperate on the issues that this interpellation concerns. In the January agreement, we have addressed recruitment to teacher training and the design of teacher training. I am aware that Roger Haddad has just recently asked my colleague Matilda Ernkrans an interpellation on this question. We have also addressed several different aspects of how to strengthen the teaching profession, for example through a professional programme and by strengthening security and education in the classroom and in school. I very much look forward to working together on these issues with Roger Haddad. I see great opportunities for us to contribute together to a little more long-termness, a little more order and a little more secure conditions for teachers to feel that their profession is a job of the future with a stable government that rests on one in the middle of the Riksdag. There, the teaching profession and its prerequisites will be an important part of our joint work.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-162	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I am also looking forward to the debate with the Minister for Higher Education. Unlike the Social Democrats, we have been critical of the massive expansion of teacher education that is also mentioned in the interpellation response. Instead, we think we should invest in quality. There are still enormous quality problems in teacher training. This applies to admission requirements and not least throughflow of so-called retention, i.e. how many teachers are left after three, four or five semesters. On some programs, up to 50% of the students are not left. So there are enormous problems. This is compounded by the issue I have now raised for debate, namely the lack of teachers. The problem is that 38 000 trained teachers are no longer in the profession. We have to keep teachers. We need to bring back the teachers who have quit. Many people can imagine coming back to the teaching profession and classroom with the right conditions. It can be about work environment, wages and so on. We also need to attract those who are by far the most suitable and motivated to study teacher training. Given that the number of dropouts is so high compared to, for example, the medical programme, there is an enormous amount to do in terms of teacher training. It may be that the national teacher-lifting efforts have been in one or two years. But before the elections, we presented in the Liberals a national and permanent investment of almost SEK 2 billion for various skills and training initiatives. We realise that this will not pass for six months or two years, Madam President. It requires the state to go in with all the muscles and support the long-term. We do not really see this in either the government declaration or the initiatives that have so far been communicated from the government's side. I asked the Swedish National Agency for Education about the Teacher Lift II if you feel safe there with the 2019 announcement, but you didn't. What the Swedish National Agency for Education can do is work spring out. Then there is really no clear and sharp news for the autumn and coming semesters. This is important for the Swedish National Agency for Education to be able to prepare and announce training opportunities. In addition, the authorities, municipalities and free schools should be able to contact and send their employees. There's a lot more you can do. For example, the conditions for participation in skills initiatives can be reviewed. The follower of school policy sees that one municipality after another starts to drag on to school. These include, for example, investments such as these, teaching, continuing training and further training. That is what smokes first, Madam President. It is therefore even more important for the state to go in from the national level. So it is not enough for us to agree on the description of the problems. There are major problems in primary school. The lack of teachers makes it particularly vulnerable. This applies to both preschool and primary school in important subjects such as mathematics. It is therefore necessary for a strategic period of time. Local initiatives are not enough or we accept that some municipalities find out, map and do things while we hope from the state side that they will do all this. This is about Sweden's future and about our students throughout the country. The most important thing for them to be able to get the education they are entitled to is educated, qualified and qualified teachers.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-171	Madam President, I would like Again, I give Roger Haddad the right description – at least on one point – when we look out over Sweden. That's when Roger Haddad says he's very worried about a lot of municipalities spending money on school. I, too, am concerned about school funding. If we scrape away some of the rhetoric and look at what the great teacher shortage, or the great recruitment needs, actually consists of, it is to a very large extent a result of increasing pupil litters. We have more children in preschool. We have more children in comprehensive school and more young people in high school. We have more in adult education and more in SFI. Basically, every school form grows quite well. It is clear that we therefore have a great need to recruit teachers. Like Roger Haddad, I am concerned about the economic conditions in many municipalities. That is precisely why I am so pleased that our two parties, together with the Centre Party and the Green Party, in the January agreement that we have reached, ensure that there are substantial resources directed directly at the school and which are also prepared in such a way as to meet, above all, the schools where the needs are greatest. I would like to thank Roger Haddad for the fruitful cooperation we have had so far in the framework of the January agreement. I very much look forward to how, on the basis of that cooperation, we can do even more to strengthen school in general and the teaching profession in particular. I would also like to pay tribute to Roger Haddad for mentioning the working environment for teachers. In my many conversations with teachers throughout the country in all forms of school, I have heard a lot of complaints about wages for many years. Now we see that wages have risen more in the teaching profession than they have in other professions. In line with that, at least I face an increased concern about the working environment in conversations with ordinary teachers. I see a direct link between the working environment for teachers and the economic conditions. I also see a direct link to the equivalence that is lacking in the Swedish school. I also see a direct link to the lack of security and study. These are all areas in which we in our parties have decided to cooperate. I look forward to us being able to strengthen the teaching profession in this way as well. Madam President, I would like One last point worth mentioning is the professional programmes developed by a government investigator, together with several of the social partners. My conviction is that a well-implemented professional programme will increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession by providing more opportunities for teachers to grow and develop in their profession. A professional programme combined with the investment in teaching assistants announced in the January agreement will, I believe, be able to mean a lot to ensure a better working environment and thus also greater satisfaction and greater opportunities for more teachers to remain in the profession.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-175	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister. The most important thing for me is that the municipalities and Swedish schools are told that there will be teacher lift money, so that they can send their employees to increase the proportion of teachers who have a teacher degree and not least subject eligibility. Several international reviews have shown that the teacher is by far the most important factor in raising school performance and quality. Then we should not forget the principals either. It takes a very conscious and strong school management to focus on this. I would have liked to hear more clearly about the Teacher Lift, but I hear what the government says. However, when it comes to getting a better overview nationally, I am convinced that there is much more to be done than just producing forecasts and assumptions. The national survey at municipal and unit level, for example, is crucial for local school politicians and for the state, now that it wants to step in and take greater responsibility for the supply of skills and skills, which I think is a good thing. Then we also need to know a little better than that the National Agency for Education goes in and makes a selection when it comes to these assessments. It is very worrying that the non-equivalence in Swedish schools is increasing, that the proportion of unauthorized teachers is increasing and that this is mainly affecting those students who are in particular need of skilled teachers. That is why we have chosen to raise these issues to the government. We hope for rapid initiatives soon.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-178	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Roger Haddad for highlighting this important issue. I look forward to good cooperation in order to work together in agreement and on the basis that the January agreement gives us to work together to ensure that the Swedish school gets a position where the teacher supply can work better than it does today and what it has done in recent times. The teaching profession is perhaps Sweden's most important profession. Without experienced and knowledgeable teachers, we do not get more police, doctors, mechanics and nurses. We need our teachers. If we are to have a good supply of teachers in Sweden, and if the teaching profession is to be as attractive as it should be, we must work together to ensure that the teaching profession has the attractiveness for those who are teachers and for those who might consider becoming teachers. Therefore, it is good to have many efforts to ensure the attractiveness of the teaching profession. But perhaps the most important thing is that we have a common collection behind the teaching profession and that we make sure that our teachers feel that they have the support of society in their backs when they do their important work. Thank you, Roger Haddad, for an important question!
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-180	Madam President, I would like Jimmy Loord has asked me how I ensure that Sweden's education policy is in line with the European Convention and EU law. He has also asked whether I believe that there is a conflict between the European Convention, EU law and the joint proposal of the Government, the Center Party and Liberals to ban the creation of independent schools with secular principals. The government's agreement with the Center Party and the Liberals with regard to secular elements in school reads as follows: Existing schools with a professional orientation should be better controlled. An investigation shall first define boundaries. ..................................................... Of course, Sweden will live up to the international commitments that have been made. As Jimmy Loord points out, under EU law, there is freedom of movement and a right of establishment that allows natural or legal persons to apply in Sweden for approval as head of preschool, school or recreation centre. The same rules apply to all applicants, Swedish and foreign. However, the State has the possibility to impose requirements for approval as a principal if this is done in a non-discriminatory manner. The evolution of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights is ongoing. From a number of judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, there is considerable scope for each country to assess the place of religion in the school system, based on the traditions and conditions of each country. The previous government therefore decided in March 2018 on a directive for a special investigator to analyse, among other things, what can be considered to follow from the ECHR, other international commitments on human rights and the form of government in relation to secular elements in schools, preschools and recreation centres, whether the principal is public or private ( Dir. 2018:15). The investigator shall also propose definitions of what is meant by terms such as, where appropriate, non-confessional, or non-confessional, or non-confessional, or non-confessional, or non-confessional, terms that are currently included in the School Act without being defined. In addition, the investigator shall review whether, in addition to existing requirements, there is a need to set specific requirements in connection with the examination of individuals as principals of schools, preschools and recreation centres with a confessional focus. Such requirements may, for example, focus more specifically on the conditions for carrying out an activity that conveys and anchors respect for the values that apply to the Swedish school system. There is therefore an ongoing work that I see as very important in order to bring about good legislation. The government is currently considering how best to take forward the work on the implementation of the January agreement in this part. I can assure Jimmy Loord that the government continues to be very keen to comply with the commitments of our international agreements.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-186	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Government for the answer I have received to my interpellation. It is no secret that I am critical of the fact that the current government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, will now introduce a ban on the establishment of secular schools, or religious free schools as it is more commonly called. In Sweden there are around 4,000 independent preschools and schools, of which more than 1,200 are primary or secondary schools. Of these, only about seventy have a secular orientation, some sixty of which are Christian free schools. The fact that a small number of free schools have a confessional principal or orientation has, in Swedish politics in turn, sparked debate. Now the debate is hot again. The government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, has decided to ban the creation of such schools. I would like to state that the Christian Democrats believe that independent schools are a self-evident and important part of the Swedish school system. We believe that it is important and something to be proud of safeguarding the freedom of choice we have today. This also applies to those free schools that have a secular orientation or principal. The teaching of such free schools shall be non-religious. It will follow the curriculum, just as it is today. It is important that secular elements that may take place in addition to teaching should be of a voluntary nature. Gender segregation is prohibited by law. All those pieces, I mean, are already laid down in Swedish school teams. The ECHR was the focus of my interpellation. It gives, as the Government has just mentioned, the right to choose a school which is in accordance with its own convictions. It's part of freedom of religion. We Christian Democrats would like to see more frequent inspections and follow-up where any problems arise. This applies to all kinds of schools, municipal and independent. It is an important part of our common quality work. Article 14 of the EU Charter of Rights sets the ultimate limit on what is possible with regard to regulations in Sweden on the establishment of schools. Setting up a school is an EU right without restrictions as regards the type of school and type of principal. The possibilities under EU law to restrict freedom of movement are small, I mean. All regulations in Swedish law on the focus on non-municipal schools must be justified by an urgent public interest, be non-discriminatory and respect free movement and integration. I interpret the Government's answers to my questions as promising that Sweden will comply with the ECHR but that an ongoing investigation will show whether the proposed ban really does. In other words, there still seems to be some uncertainty, if I interpret the Council of State correctly, whether this proposal is compatible with the European Convention. If I wanted to clarify, I could conclude that the Government's answer to my questions is: I do not know. In an interview with the newspaper Dagen, I think it was last week, the minister did not want to answer the question how the government could reconcile the right to choose a Christian free school with a ban on the same school, for example. If the investigator comes to the conclusion that your proposal is problematic, will you withdraw it? That is my question to the Government.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-198	Madam President, I would like In his speech, Jimmy Loord assumes that the government will use the current investigation as a way to determine how the January agreement will be implemented. I would like to emphasise that this is one of several possibilities that exists for the government. We have not yet taken a position on the way in which we will produce the basis for the decision that the January agreement will require. I can also note that Jimmy Loord's conclusion that I had somehow failed or contested that the January Agreement was possible to implement rests on a rather loose basis. I have neither said nor meant that this should be the case. As I see it, we have a European Convention. The European Convention must, of course, be complied with. However, the ECHR also provides an opportunity for a national margin for assessment and interpretation. There is sometimes talk of a national margin of discretion. It is also the case that the case law of the European Court of Human Rights is constantly changing and taking the impression of changes in what is European contemporary and European reality. My conviction, like that of the Centre Party, Liberals and the Green Party, is that it is perfectly possible to live up to the January agreement without the European Convention coming into force. I would also like to point out that, in the area of school, school is a national matter. What is the content of the education and the form of the education is something that we ourselves decide about here in Sweden – in the Swedish parliament, with principals or in some cases with authorities or in the government. My assessment is that the January Agreement as it stands is both desirable and feasible to implement. I look forward to being the person responsible for making proposals on how to do it in a way that is in line with the international commitments that Sweden has made but also in a way that is consistent with what I think children and students need. It is a schooling where they can freely shape their own beliefs and decide freely what religious beliefs they should have and where children and pupils get a schooling where we in the Riksdag have decided how it should be designed so that each student should not only learn as much as possible but also shape their own life.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-205	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. In the general political debate, the government parties can be heard claiming that secular Christian or religious free schools are part of a major social problem that contributes to pupils' exclusion, increased segregation, intolerance, extremism and neglect. I have read all these terms in articles written by some of the parties included in the January Agreement. The problem is that it is a picture that is not entirely true. There is no indication that secular schools, most Christians, would contribute more than municipal schools or other free schools. I would rather argue the opposite. The vast majority of free schools of this species usually have a broad mix of nationalities and religious affiliations. I even dare to say that many of these schools are better at integration and better at inclusion and tolerance than many municipal schools are. I would argue that the debate that has prompted the decision that is now on the table is based on a partially distorted perception of reality that has no basis in the reality that prevails in Sweden's free schools that have a secular focus. The question also fundamentally applies whether mothers and fathers should have the right to decide over their children's upbringing and upbringing. That is something that I think is perfectly reasonable. The fact that some parties believe that the state should go in and take greater responsibility for these issues is, in my view, a problematic development. That is why the UN Convention on Human Rights and the European Convention clearly stipulate that the right to control children's education belongs to parents. This is something that Sweden should stick to and not deviate from. I believe that we in Sweden have guidance documents for the school. The school inspectorate's reviews are tools for free schools not to have an overly one-sided religious character. Today we have good control that these schools operate in an efficient and quality-assured way. On this point, we have a better model in Sweden than many other European countries where these schools are privately funded. As I mentioned in my first speech, we are opening up to tougher reviews and more inspections of schools where there is cause for concern. Another argument that is repeated is that the publicly funded should be free from religion. The government was a bit in that area. Religion belongs to the private. But how far do the Government and the Social Democrats want to draw this argument? When are you withdrawing the opportunity for the churches to receive the association grant? When are you withdrawing the possibility for churches to start a retirement home? Where's the line? If there is no factual evidence that Christian free schools would contribute to increased segregation and the creation of parallel societies-- is it religion itself one wants? I'm afraid of a social development where prejudices are unsound and where we constantly stick labels on each other instead of building a society where we with our differences stick together. When the map does not correspond with reality, politics goes astray, and I think it becomes clear on the issue of secular schools.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-216	Madam President, I would like I can assure Jimmy Loord that there are no plans to do anything – at least not in the context of this work – that affects the funding that is currently being given to various forms of communities and associations. I can also assure Jimmy Loord that I too am anxious that we have a society where religion is a part of society. I don't want to shut religion out. What this debate is about is what heads and what directions we should allow when it comes to running schools in Sweden. So the debate we are now having is not a debate on the role of religion in society or on the role of religious communities in society. This is not really a debate that should be about which principals have the right to run schools. For me, it is a debate on the right of pupils to receive an education that is comprehensive and based on the curriculum and an education that gives students a space to shape their own views on important issues within the framework of the school. I assure Jimmy Loord that I think your religious beliefs are a really important issue, not just for a young person, but for all people. Jimmy Loord also raises the issue of the right of mothers and fathers to decide over their children's education. There is a rich case law here. Anyone who takes note of the European Court of Human Rights' many different legal cases finds many cases where the Court has judged that parents' wishes and sometimes demands regarding how education should be designed to match how they want their children to be raised sometimes may stand back. The wishes and demands of parents sometimes stand back for our common interest that we have a common knowledge base to stand on and common skills to use in society. Here is a rich case law in the various courts that govern our international conventions. My assessment is still, despite what Jimmy Loord says, that we have good opportunities to at the same time meet the requirements of the various international conventions and ensure that children and students in Sweden receive the education and training that enables the students to shape their own perception of important life choices, including religious beliefs. I very much welcome the commitment to this issue, and I am very pleased with the commitment that Jimmy Loord shows to the schools that he is so clearly arguing for in terms of how good they are. I hope that this commitment will apply to all schools in Sweden, because my ambition is that no matter which school a child attends in Sweden, all students will have the same chance to learn a lot but also to shape their own life.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-222	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I would like to begin by confirming my great commitment to all schools in our country. I would also like to emphasise in this debate with the Government that I believe it is important that Swedish school should be kept free from religious extremism and segregation, whether it is a school with a public head or a free school. I believe that the Government and I agree there. I welcome tougher audits, controls and inspections. But I still think there are many issues that hang in the air and that I find a little hard to understand. The big question is really why. Why would they want to set up secular schools if it is an untruth that they contribute more to segregation? It would be interesting to hear the Government comment on the reality picture that many party representatives have painted about neglect, segregation and extremism. Is it an environment that exists today in these schools? That would be interesting to hear. After today's debate, I have not been disturbed in my opinion. I believe that the Government's proposal is contrary to the European Convention. The Government's answer is that she should not pursue any issue that is contrary to the European Convention, while the Government does not really know if this proposal does. An investigator will look at this, but the Government is still pushing the proposal forward before she knows for sure. A final question: Why is this search for well-functioning schools if the picture of reality that is being painted is not correct? Or does it? I would like to hear the Government comment on this.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-228	Madam President, I would like There have also been inaccuracies in the independent schools that we are today calling confessional; there is probably no doubt about that. As far as I'm concerned, it's enough for a child to get hurt to make me think it's worth caring about that. I am also, after quite many years in the school world, a little bit refined in terms of the ability to ensure high quality and compliance in all schools through control and inspection. In that case, we will probably have to extend the inspection far beyond what we might call reasonable. I want to strongly deny that I somehow want to frame, as Jimmy Loord said, some independent schools. For me, it is not about the right of schools, it is about the right of pupils and children to receive comprehensive education and education. Nor is it in any way a question of reducing the importance of religion to people who voluntarily seek religion. I really want to acknowledge that young people together, for example, are taking the initiative to gather together for prayer or the like. But I do not want to see a school where the school management takes these initiatives, at least not in the schools to be established in the future when we comply with the January agreement. I remain convinced that it is possible to reconcile the European Convention with modern and effective legislation on children's right to education, at least with regard to those free schools on a secular basis which might have started in the future. I would like to thank Jimmy Loord for the interpellation and for the debate. I would also like to thank you for the honest commitment that we share in ensuring that children and students receive an education that is good, although we do not all come to exactly the same conclusion.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-234	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me four questions about winter road maintenance on the state roads. I and Lars Beckman were seen here in Parliament quite exactly a year ago to discuss the winter road management on the state roads. I would also like to begin by saying that it is of great importance that the winter road maintenance of our roads is of high quality. This is important for both accessibility and road safety. The Government has therefore ensured that the Swedish Transport Administration has the necessary conditions to carry out this task. The framework for infrastructure in the national plan has increased by more than SEK 100 billion compared to the previous plan. This enables strong investments in both the development and maintenance of the infrastructure. In May 2018, the Government instructed Trafikverket to evaluate the winter maintenance during winter 2017/18. The aim was to analyse how the business has functioned and what needs to be developed and improved. In its report, the Finnish Transport Agency notes that last winter was at times very difficult with large amounts of snow and commuting temperatures. In the report, Trafikverket proposes a number of improvements that they are now working on. The Finnish Transport Agency has also continued its development of modern methods and working methods for monitoring entrepreneurs' work. For example, GPS is used in the vehicles, which allows the work done to be followed up at a detailed level. The Finnish Transport Agency also carries out checks on the work carried out on the road. It is important to ensure that entrepreneurs meet their commitments. It is not only winter road maintenance that determines the accessibility of state roads in wintertime. It is also important that both vehicles and drivers are prepared and take the measures required by the road team. Using winter tyres with the right tread depth is just as important as planning your journey according to weather conditions and following traffic rules. Since October 2009, municipalities have been able to impose dubbing-deck bans, and the government does not intend to change that legislation. The government has recently improved the conditions for increasing road safety. In August 30, 2018, the Government decided on stricter rules for heavy goods vehicles, heavy buses and passenger cars class II with a total weight of more than 3.5 tonnes. The rules mean that these vehicles must have winter tyres or equivalent equipment on all wheels, not only on the drive axles as before. The requirement, which enters into force on 1 June 2019, applies between 1 December and 31 March in the case of winter roads. A good working environment should guide all activities carried out by the Finnish Transport Agency and the contractors in collaboration. Work must never be done at the expense of a good working environment. The Government is therefore following Trafikverket's efforts to ensure that labour law requirements and a good working environment are complied with in procured operations. Finally, I would like to make it clear to Lars Beckman once again that winter road maintenance is always carried out as long as there is a need. Although the total costs are high, the operation is not interrupted. The fact that state roads have good accessibility during the winter is an important issue for the government. J ag intends to continue to follow the issue in dialogue with the Finnish Transport Administration and to ensure that the ongoing improvement work is progressing.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-242	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to begin by congratulating you on the continued mission as a minister, thanks to the government base L, C, MP and, of course, your own party. Madam President, I would like The year 2018 was a dark year in traffic with more deaths than in previous years. The growth is greatest among protected road users, especially those who travel by passenger car and lorry. The Swedish Parliament has adopted a zero vision of the number of road deaths. It is deeply worrying that we are now seeing the number of road deaths again increasing. I noted that the Government said in its response that the Government believes that good road maintenance is important and that Sweden should be accessible. However, I believe that many people who have been driving in recent weeks are somewhat perplexing about the Government's response. Not the ambition, because there is probably nothing wrong with it, but the outcome and the reality makes it flashy around Sweden. By today at the latest. 12.26 in the constituency of the first Vice-President and my own country, Gefle Dagblad reported that two were taken to hospital after double truck accidents on the E4 at the Axmar board and that traffic was diverted. If it was so slippery on the E4 past Gävle today that it was the other day when I drove – I still drive with studded tires and have a good car with safety equipment – it was lightning. It was soapy on the E4. Then reality must always beat the rhetoric. Sweden's Åkeri company has alerted several major deficiencies in the anti-slip system in Sweden for several years. The newspaper Trailer has reviewed winter road maintenance in a well-known report and has noted what the rest of us already know, namely that there are major deficiencies around Sweden. Then they spoke to the Swedish Transport Administration's hotline. The answer they received was that it is for economic and environmental reasons that one cannot make a more powerful effort in the current weather situation. The Swedish Transport Administration's Press Emergency Service therefore responds to a news desk that it is for economic and environmental reasons that a more powerful effort cannot be made. This contrasts sharply with the Government's response. Either the Government is right and must then change the instructions to its authority, or the authority is right, and the Government must, of course, correct its response. Madam President, I would like I have asked the Government four sharp questions. I want to know what measures the Government intends to take to improve winter road maintenance in Sweden. So what action does the government intend to take? Then this winter road maintenance is a very important issue for Sweden's professional drivers. That is why I asked in the interpellation what cooperation exists between the Swedish Work Environment Authority and the Swedish Transport Administration. Professional drivers are not supposed to die along the roads because the roads are too slippery. Finally, I asked, and I received no answer: does the Government consider that a dubbing ban in some municipalities could affect national road safety? So I did not ask whether the government would change the law, but I asked whether the responsible minister believes that a dubbing ban can affect national road safety.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-251	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars Beckman, for the congratulations! I will honestly say that after four months of transitional regulation, when we were not allowed to intervene in national politics but, indeed, to engage in the European negotiations, to which I shall return shortly, I almost missed the interpellation debates, not least with Lars Beckman. Now we are here anyway and have the opportunity to immerse ourselves in both winter road maintenance and many other traffic issues. I am, of course, very pleased that we have managed to reach cross-block agreements on 73 points and that there is broad consensus in Swedish politics on many major and important issues. But of course I also invite the Moderates to participate in the spirit of consensus that can still exist in Swedish politics. Not least, it would be good for such important issues as infrastructure or transport policy. It is of course incredibly important that we have a well-functioning winter road maintenance. There I share Lars Beckman's view. I have been clear: I was not satisfied with how it worked last year. This was one of the reasons why Trafikverket was commissioned to evaluate winter road maintenance. I am pleased that there are GPS markings and that we are ensured that we are paid and delivered the services in which the government invests. That's good. I am pleased that Trafikverket now has a better and close collaboration with the National Association of Individual Roads to ensure that the concerns that have existed in parts of the country because they have not had good agreements to ensure good winter road maintenance can be calmed. Above all, however, I am very pleased with the initiatives that have been taken, which will now come into force, such as the fact that, from 1 June, we will have requirements for winter tyres on heavy goods vehicles. I remember asking a question about this in an interpellation debate a year ago, and then Lars Beckman hovered on the case and was doubtful whether this was the right way to go. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to put that question back. I myself think this is important. Should it be safe on our roads, and should you as a road user feel safe when there comes a 64-toner driving and it may not be separated lanes, it is very good to know if it is a vehicle that has properly equipped tires. Not least in the Gävle region but also in many other places we have seen how the roads are blocked by professional vehicles with poorly equipped tyres, often perhaps from haulage companies or companies in Eastern Europe that have not seen or been able to have the competence to assess the Swedish road conditions. That is why this legislation is important. In the same way, it is with the initiative that I am taking to examine whether we can regulate the use of EU trailers, which, not least in Lars Beckman's own constituency, has been able to cause some road accidents. In this way, we are now moving forward gradually to strengthen road safety. We will also turn on the tools when it comes to getting a good and working winter road maintenance and ensure that the riders responsible for winter road maintenance are followed up by a third party. It is not the Trafikverket itself that does, but it is a procured third party that goes in and ensures that you get the service you have actually paid for. It is, of course, absolutely crucial that we have resources. 100 billion more than was in the national plan during the time we had bourgeois government plays a major role. 164 billion on road maintenance alone improves conditions. Of course, even in the future, in heavy snowstorms or severe weather, there will be situations where you have to stop, relax and not get out in traffic without making sure that you are properly equipped. Of course, I cannot go in and correct what the Swedish Transport Administration's press conference says. But I can definitely say that there can be no economic or environmental reasons that can be the cause of a lack of winter road maintenance. That is not acceptable. These must not be economic obstacles. It is clear in the control available by the Finnish Transport Administration.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-262	Madam President, I would like The Government's position – I am absolutely convinced that the Government really means what he says here in the speaker's chair – stands in sharp contrast to reality. The reality we can see, no matter where we live in Sweden. Right now it's traffic chaos. It's lightning. The police say in articles and articles: It was sophalka here. It is no wonder that the bus drifted off the road. Fortunately, there was no accident this morning. This is a quote from an article in Smålandsposten: Trafikverket later returned with the announcement that there are economic and environmental reasons why a stronger effort has not been made. There were economic and environmental reasons why a strong effort had not been made. Madam President, I would like Sweden has four seasons. We have summer. We've got autumn. We have winter. And we have ours. I think that a lot of people who live in Sweden expect them to be able to make their way even in the winter, whether they travel by train or by plane or if they travel by road. I note that there is probably a certain willingness on the part of both authorities and others to try to blame, for example, Sweden's Åkeri company. Of course, tyres are important – absolutely. In Norway, which has the legislation that Sweden is now about to introduce, it is noted that this has not solved the problems in Norway. It is now moving forward and discussing other measures in Norway. Actually, I was watching that yesterday. I read several interesting articles. I also note that the Government avoids the question, but I am happy to ask it again: Does the Government consider that a dubbing ban can make road safety worse in Sweden? I think about when it's lightning and when it's like it was between Söderhamn and Gävle the other day. The E4 was like an ice track. Would the Government recommend someone to go out and drive without studded tires? This is, of course, for real. When the trend is broken and the number of deaths is increasing in Sweden, concrete and robust measures are of course required that enable us to reduce the number of deaths in Sweden. I am concerned about those professional drivers who are actually risking their lives because winter road maintenance is not working. It is not reasonable that those who are drivers in Sweden and those who have as a profession to drive goods, or whatever it is, risk their lives because the state does not fulfil its important social contract: to make sure that the road, the E4, actually works and is accessible. That is how resources are needed. There is obviously a discrepancy between the answer given by the Government – that the necessary resources have been provided – and the Finnish Transport Administration's view, at least what they say to the media, namely that economic reasons and environmental reasons are behind the inadequate winter road management. Given this discrepancy, it would be interesting to hear: What measures does the Government intend to take to ensure that winter road maintenance actually works better and that the Swedish Transport Administration will have the resources that you flag for that you need for winter road maintenance?
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-272	Madam President, I would like Let me first address the question of the municipalities. It is true that the municipalities have the possibility to impose a dubbing ban. For example, they have this at Hornsgatan here in Stockholm. I find it hard to imagine that Gävle would like to introduce a dubbing ban on long distances. But in that case it should be something that you decide municipally. It is up to the municipality to decide whether to do this. Stockholm has chosen to do so on Hornsgatan, for example, for environmental reasons. Let me then say one more time: No, there cannot be economic and environmental reasons whatever a hotline says. We are clear that there should not be financial constraints on the resources that need to be used for the winter road maintenance we have. This has been the case for a very long time. It is not a new regulation that I have made up, but it is actually a regulation that we have had for a long time because the winter road team and the weather conditions vary between the years. There must be no impact on the efforts made. Since I was dissatisfied with the quality of winter road maintenance last year, Trafikverket was commissioned to evaluate this together with the haulage companies. Let me be clear. I have a very good collaboration with Sweden's Åkeri company. It is an industry that is under severe economic pressure from unfair competition, not least of foreign truck traffic that does not always have the same ambitions – it can be about winter tyres, about complying with driving and rest time rules or about otherwise ensuring good working conditions for those who drive. Professionals and drivers in Sweden are doing a fantastic job. That is one of the reasons why in December I managed to negotiate a position and a decision in the Council on a new mobility package. This means strengthening the conditions for the haulage industry and for the rules on cabotage transport. And that means an opportunity for Sweden as a nation, not least, to have improved regulation of both cabotage and transport within the framework of the combined transport directive. In this respect, unlike the government previously supported by Lars Beckman, we have waged a rather tough battle within the EU, together with many other countries, for better regulation at international level too, so that the Swedish transport industry does not suffer from unfair competition or unfair competition rules. It is to the benefit of road safety but also for the development of Swedish transport industry. I believe, however, that Lars Beckman himself is responsible for the answer to the question of winter tyres, which we must nevertheless note has an effect. In any case, I think it matters whether a 64-tonne vehicle has a winter deck or not. I do not know if Lars Beckman shares that view, but for me it is important to have such regulation, just as for buses or other heavier vehicles. I am surprised that we have not had such a regulation in the past. I am also pleased that we have more resources at our disposal for winter road maintenance and road maintenance than we had during the time when we had an alliance government, which had 100 billion less at our disposal to make this type of effort. I believe that in the future we will continue to need a high level of ambition in terms of road safety, whether we are talking about EU trailers, working conditions, regulations or levels of ambition in terms of winter road maintenance. I will continue to do that, and I welcome Lars Beckman into that debate.
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-280	Madam President, I would like Thankfully, we have to decide about winter road maintenance in Sweden ourselves. It is therefore up to the government to set the requirements. It is up to the government to ensure that the authorities comply with the requirements they have. We can note that the Swedish Transport Administration in article after article around Sweden, from Norrbotten in the north to Skåne in the south, says: We can't afford to keep the E4 non-slip. It is a direct and clear message from the responsible authority: We cannot afford to keep the E4 non-slip. It is of course sad that in a winter country such as Sweden should not have a road safety E4:a. Madam President, I would like I drove myself between Söderhamn and Gävle the other day, and there was lightning on the E4. Then you'll be surprised to hear the answer from the government. He says: We have given the Finnish Transport Administration the resources they need. Obviously, there is a big difference between the Government's idea of how it should be and the reality of Sweden's motorists and professional drivers. Sometimes I wish the Swedish Work Environment Authority would shut down traffic. When it's so dangerous that professional drivers risk their lives because of the stroke of lightning on the E4, the Swedish Work Environment Authority might actually close the road and say: Now the Swedish Transport Administration has to do its job, so that the trucks arrive. Then it's about the tires. Of course it matters. That's why I'm a big fan of studded tires. I find it regrettable that the Government does not answer the question: Does the Government believe that it affects national road safety that Stockholmers go on dubb-free tyres, for example, between Stockholm and Sälen because of a double-deck ban in Stockholm?
i-d1acd05c7dc0e552-287	Madam President, I would like Let me first say that it is gratifying to hear a moderate Member of Parliament vote for the Swedish Work Environment Authority. It is otherwise an activity that the Moderates systematically and consistently wanted to cut back on. It has wanted to cut resources and close down large parts of the business and thus the prerequisites to work preventively for a good working environment. If Lars Beckman, together with me and many others, wants to stand on the barricades for a more resourceful work environment that secures the environment for professional drivers and many others on the Swedish labour market, I therefore welcome this change in position. Good luck getting the Moderate Coalition Party to change their minds too! As far as winter road maintenance is concerned, of course, the message I give is the one that applies. It cannot be the case that a lack of financial resources means abandoning efforts, according to the rules that exist. For a long time, winter road maintenance has been subject to a classification according to which road hauliers are procured because the Swedish Transport Administration does not have its own resources. Since we have a different regulation in Sweden for a long time, I find it difficult to see economic and environmental reasons as arguments. Let me conclude by saying that I think it is good to have a strong commitment to having a good and safe traffic environment. We improve winter road maintenance in Sweden. We add more resources, and we have tougher demands on those who have to manage it. We also make tougher demands on professional traffic and on haulage companies, not least on foreign hauliers who now, when they come to Swedish roads, have to take greater responsibility than before. In the end, however, we all know that it also matters how both Lars Beckman and I drive and what behaviour we have in traffic, that we have good judgment, hands on the steering wheel and that we do not respond to mobile phones and other things. I hope that together we can ensure that more people pay attention to the importance of good behaviour in traffic. Then we'll have fewer injured and killed in traffic.
