i-7SAT63YPafnpDgg6VS4snC	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist, Minister Ardalan Shekarabi, Minister Matilda Ernkrans and Minister Per Bolund. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. The Government Per Bolund answers both general policy questions and questions within its own area of responsibility.
i-785df56b21f03667-2	Madam President, I would like If we are to achieve integration, we cannot have a great deal of immigration for the foreseeable future. We need... to keep the reception of new arrivals at low levels. The words could be mine or the Moderates. We have recently formulated a volume target for Swedish asylum immigration, precisely to cope with integration, to break exclusion and to regain control. But the words aren't mine. They were spoken by Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi only a few weeks ago. Yet his own party has recently voted in favour and pushed for more immigration to Sweden. Those of us who work on future immigration policy are now very curious. What line will the Social Democrats and the government take? Is it Ardalan Shekarabis, which I hope, or is it the Green Party's?
i-ErwWtg278QpiareYAcqWEj	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stenergard, for the question. I can reassure the honourable Member that the government has a policy that is the government's common policy. I can also reassure the honourable Member that, unlike the Moderates, this government will stand up for integration. The miserable cuts in integration policy and labour market policy decided by this House in December have effects in Swedish municipalities everywhere in our country. I am very happy to sit in a government that fixes the mistakes made by this Parliament in December when we ensure that the municipalities have the opportunity to ensure that people get to work. Indeed, if we are to manage integration, we must stick to the rescheduling of migration policy. But we need to focus equally on integration. It was disastrous for this House to make those cuts in labour market policy. It is good that the government is currently fixing some of it.
i-785df56b21f03667-8	Madam President, I would like I asked a question about migration and got answers about integration. It is extremely crucial. There are many political parties that have historically failed in integration. I'm the first to agree with that. The government has a policy, says the Minister of Civil Affairs. But what is that policy? That's what I was wondering. Will the Minister continue to stand here and point fingers? Or will he stand up and say what government policy is?
i-785df56b21f03667-10	Madam President, I would like The government's line on these issues is very clear in the January agreement. We see that there is a need to stick to the temporary law. But in order for us to stick together, it must now be complemented by very important efforts relating to the integration of our country. There is a link between migration policy and integration policy. It would be good if the Moderates took it upon themselves and changed their attitude towards integration investments that are needed in our country.
i-785df56b21f03667-13	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Minister Per Bolund. It's about apathetic refugee children. It is a subject that has become topical for debate again after two now grown-up individuals have emotionally explained how they were forced to play apathetic when they were children. It is about children who have been subjected to physical and mental torture, about children who have been forced to simulate. The purpose was for the family to be granted a residence permit in Sweden. After three government investigations, it has been noted that apathetic refugee children can be seen as a Swedish phenomenon, as there is no reliable information about the occurrence of acquiescence syndrome in countries other than Sweden.
i-NYSsZrorqZgJZULTLZ9aB2	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Clara Aranda, for the question! This is, of course, a difficult situation that many people fleeing to our country have been in and end up in. It is no wonder that it is reflected on everyone involved, including the children. I think you should be careful to generalize from isolated stories, no matter how emotional they may be. It is also important that we listen to the expertise in the case. The comments I have seen from, for example, doctors who follow this particular issue and study it thoroughly are that this cannot be taken into account for the truth about apathetic refugee children. There are plenty of stories pointing in a completely different direction. These children have been subjected to very difficult and traumatic experiences, and this of course affects their mental well-being. It's not that strange. So let us not draw too much conclusions from individual personal stories in this case.
i-785df56b21f03667-21	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We absolutely need to know more about this. We need to know more about how many people have been affected. That is why there are strong reasons for examining and investigating the existence of apathetic children who have been abused. It is an appropriate first step to deal seriously with the information that has emerged.
i-785df56b21f03667-24	Madam President, I would like As Clara Aranda said in her first speech, there have been several studies on the subject. Rather, we believe that it is better for research to take hold of it, as is being done. It is being researched in this area, as in many others. I would also like to point out that the most important thing we can do is to create so much security in the world that people do not have to flee, which creates difficult situations and traumas. But we also need to make efforts for our municipalities so that they have the opportunity to deal with mental illness. Then we cannot cut back on the municipal sector, as proposed by the Swedish Democrats.
i-785df56b21f03667-27	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. Mental ill-health among students is a major and growing problem in society. Many students feel stress, and more than half of the students experience anxiety, anxiety or anxiety. Students are more affected by mental illness than professionals of the same age. Students are over-represented throughout the spectrum, from headaches and sleep disorders to diagnosed depression and attempts to kill themselves. It clearly points to the need for proposals and reforms to counter mental ill health among students and to ensure better prevention. But you also need to look deeper at the causes and make sure that they are clarified in a good way.
i-785df56b21f03667-31	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Christensson, for the question! It is indeed a priority area for the government to deal widely with how we are going to build a better mental health in our country. This applies not least to students. As the honourable Member rightly points out, the number of students with mental illness is greater than others of comparable age. We have taken some steps. We have already launched an investigation that will look at how student health and primary care may cooperate and interact in a better way, thereby providing better support to those students who may have suffered from mental illness, so that they do not fall between the chairs. But, of course, we need to review the housing situation, continue work against sexual harassment at higher education institutions and so on. So there is a great deal of work that we can and should do.
i-785df56b21f03667-34	Madam President, I would like It is good that measures are taken for this part of the population. Students feel worse than in the rest of society. Some years ago, the Center Party proposed strengthening their accessibility, and they would also be helped more quickly. In this way you would face the problem that exists. There are also proposals to strengthen the mapping process. It is rather unclear what makes students feel bad. Is this an issue that the government intends to take forward?
i-785df56b21f03667-36	Madam President, I would like As I said, the government prioritises work to build a better mental health across the board. We really need to take seriously how students are doing and see what we can do about the situation in colleges. We'll have safe colleges. Student organisations have also raised the issue of mapping. We have not really taken a position on this. But not least in the middle cooperation that exists in Swedish politics there are opportunities to discuss this further. However, as I said, we have already taken action.
i-785df56b21f03667-39	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. A national housing crisis is currently taking place in Sweden, which is easy to see. In a situation where eight out of ten municipalities have a housing shortage, new production falls, homelessness among families in particular is increasing, a large part of the common good is sold or transformed into housing rights and evictions as the norm is in progress, the Minister of Housing has been lost without trace.
i-785df56b21f03667-41	Madam President, I would like I can make Momodou Malcolm Jallow happy that I have far from disappeared. I stand here today and answer questions. Every day I work at the Government Office in the sweat of my face. We work intensively every day on housing policy. It is also shown by positive results. It can be seen that much more has been built in recent years than has happened in Sweden for a long time. Now new apartments come onto the market at a pace that has not existed for many years. However, we are not satisfied but think that more needs to be done. We also want to ensure that apartments are built that people with less income can afford. That is why we have introduced a more active housing policy than that which has existed for many years. There is now investment aid to enable small, energy-efficient rental apartments to be built with a reasonable rent level. So far, 24 000 apartments have come out of this method. But now the government parties also have a long-term agreement with the Centre Party and the Liberals, which means that this support will remain in place for a long time. In addition, we are working on regulatory simplification and many other measures to make it both cheaper and faster to build.
i-785df56b21f03667-45	Madam President, I would like The Left Party and the Tenants' Association want to introduce a government top loan for new production of rental rights. The proposal involves the State taking over part of the risk of the lease right's financing by offering top low-interest loans replacing most of the construction company's equity. Is the Government prepared to introduce state top loans for new production or should the market decide how to build?
i-785df56b21f03667-47	Madam President, I would like The rental market is hugely important. For people who do not have large savings, it is often incredibly important that rental apartments are available. A major effort is needed to ensure that these are built. But we think broadly and are prepared to listen to many different voices, including how to give more access to the purchased housing market for those who do not have the highest incomes. We continue to focus on having a housing policy that also fills the great social values that the home does. There we are prepared to think both far and wide.
i-785df56b21f03667-50	Madam President, I would like We'll continue on the same subject. Boverket has recently reported a forecast that the number of dwellings started indicates a decrease for 2019 and 2020. Our largest city, Stockholm, shows figures showing a significant decrease in the number of dwellings started in 2019. It's almost a half. The signals from everyone involved are clear. The number of homes built in Sweden is not only too low but also decreasing. Last out was the Governor of the Riksbank, who called for political proposals to correct the dysfunctional housing market. The budget just presented has relatively few proposals on this, and no real proposal that can help to speed up the pace of construction. The Christian Democrats have proposed to review the credit restrictions. We also have proposals on housing savings and starting loans. When can we expect the Minister for Housing to come up with proposals aimed at the problems in the housing market?
i-785df56b21f03667-54	Madam President, I would like I can be pleased with Larry Söder that we have not waited, but have already made proposals that every day make a difference to the Swedish housing market. With the policy that has been in place for many years with bourgeois and moderate government, where the market has been allowed to prevail entirely on its own, it is clear that apartments have not been built for the needs of the market. Many people have not had access to housing. We see housing not only as a commodity but also as a right, a security, for people. That is why we have introduced a more active housing policy than Sweden has seen in decades. The investment aid that is now also included in the budget amounts to SEK 3 billion per year, and it will ensure that apartments that would not otherwise have been built on the Swedish housing market will be released. These make a difference every day for people who would otherwise have been excluded from living. I think the honourable Member should take note of this and acknowledge it. However, we also need to work with many other tools, such as regulatory simplification. We are currently working intensively to implement this.
i-785df56b21f03667-57	Madam President, I would like It can be noted that the number of dwellings completed in 2018 decreased. The number that is completed also looks to decrease in 2019. In 2018, there was investment aid, and the figures show that this did not help to increase the number of homes. Other types of housing were built, but not a large number. The minister said a place to live provides security. Young people today do not get a place to live. Those who have social problems also have no housing. When are the policies for these coming?
i-785df56b21f03667-59	Madam President, I would like Unlike the government of Larry Söder's party, we now have a policy that takes people's needs into account. It is not only those who have the largest wallets that get their way in the housing market. It is well known that during the time of bourgeois housing policy, small, cheap rental apartments were not built; they built expensive dwellings. This market niche is now filled. There are not even customers to fill the apartments that have been built. We must also find ways of building for those with lower incomes.
i-785df56b21f03667-62	Madam President, I would like In times of acute teacher shortage and not least through the results that came from the Swedish National Agency for Education today, we in Sweden can see large differences in equivalence between students. This applies, in particular, to their access to qualified and qualified teachers. This is considered to be the most important factor in improving school performance and quality. That is why this issue is particularly important for the state and the government. Recently, admission figures came to the autumn teacher training. Unfortunately, one can once again note that the search pressure is dropping, even though we would need 8,000 beginners. A further 8 000 people would therefore be required to apply for and be admitted to teacher training in order to be able to recruit teachers.
i-785df56b21f03667-65	Madam President, I would like Mr Roger raises an extremely important issue. Of course, the government concludes that it was absolutely right to take responsibility for and ensure that more people were given the opportunity to study teacher education. We know that one of the really big reasons for the lack of teachers is that we have more children and young people in our schools. We already have it today, and we will have it in the future too. It is clear that more people need to be trained as teachers. You're absolutely right that it's a marginal decrease. However, in terms of the number of students, the teacher education is the largest education we have at our universities and colleges right now. There are more teachers at our schools than ever. It is a historically high level. A lot of people want to be teachers. We need to be very careful about this if more people want to choose to become teachers.
i-785df56b21f03667-69	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. It's not just about expanding teacher training. In half of teacher education there was no competition for autumn admission. Liberals believe that admission requirements need to be tightened up. It's got to be exclusive. It is not just about getting in any one, because we also have big problems with the defection.
i-785df56b21f03667-72	Madam President, I would like I am very pleased that we are working together in the middle of Swedish politics where the major conflicts about school and teacher education can be resolved constructively in conversations with each other. We're running those calls. I feel very confident about the future that we will resolve it wisely and well. But we should remember that we should not make down the teacher students we have today in our educations. Everyone who has come in there has already passed really high standards.
i-785df56b21f03667-75	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Matilda Ernkrans. This week, the eyes of the world are on New York and the climate summit there. Sweden has been prepared on stage on several occasions, and achievements for climate-smart industry have been highlighted in a way that arouses both curiosity and pride. But it just has to be the beginning. Continued success in this area is promoted, among other things, through a good research and innovation climate here in Sweden. I therefore wonder: how does the government intend to promote Sweden's advanced position in relation to climate-smart industry through research?
i-785df56b21f03667-78	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Westerén, for that question. It's very important. We can be proud of what Sweden does. We have taken on the leadership shirt together with India to lead the industrial transition in a more climate-smart direction all over the world. We should be very proud of that, at the same time as we should be very clear that we need to do more. Not least the young generation of Gretor out there expects us to take greater responsibility. We will do the same. We will need research and new innovations. I am going to Brussels tomorrow to continue to negotiate the world's largest Horizon Europe research programme. Here, at least a third will go to the climate transition. These are things that we should take home and make really good research and innovations of also in Sweden.
i-785df56b21f03667-81	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It feels very hopeful. I would like to conclude by expressing the hope that the government will continue the important work that is going on with a fair transition, which has also been on the agenda in New York. It is a question of research and of helping to spread the good examples even more. But it's also about us making sure that research takes place in more places in our amazing country so that we take advantage of all of Sweden's potential in the transition to climate-smart industry.
i-785df56b21f03667-83	Madam President, I would like It is really important that we in Sweden can lead with good examples. One of those who deserve to be highlighted is the work done in the Hybrid project. There we are the world leader in producing steel without coal. SSAB, LKAB and Vattenfall have taken responsibility for this work. We from the state are involved in stimulating it further so that we can get it up to bigger projects. The more things we can do in academia, research, industry and the state together, we will also do.
i-785df56b21f03667-85	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Per Bolund a question. Yesterday, the IPCC presented the latest report on the impact of climate change on the seas. There are 680 million people in low-lying coastal areas now at risk of flooding. Almost as many people are affected by glacier melting in high mountain areas, and 65 million people in low-lying island nations are at risk of seeing their countries under the sea. Greta Thunberg has spoken to a whole world at the UN climate summit. I know that the Swedish Government has had a clear leadership on the climate issue. In the light of the new report, my question is: in what way does the government intend to step up its efforts so that we really get as far as possible? We may even have to go further than we previously thought.
i-785df56b21f03667-88	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Annika Hirvonen Falk, for a crucial question for the future! It is the greatest fate of our time we are talking about. The IPCC report really underlines the seriousness of the situation. Already the emissions that have taken place so far have created an extremely difficult climate situation in the world. Then leadership is required. I am proud when I see Sweden on site in New York and Swedish representatives who can lift up many of the solutions that the world needs. We've gone ahead. But we now need to speed up further. We have soon tripled the climate budget in Sweden. It now leads to major climate investments throughout our country where we gradually build away our fossil dependence and build the new modern fossil-free Sweden. But we need to speed up even more. We need to ensure that we can now use the window of time that we have to build a climate-smart and sustainable society. Then we have to use all the tools. It is about investment, and we must work together with businesses and businesses. But we must also dare to use the taxes. The green tax shift is a very important tool that we are going to use.
i-785df56b21f03667-92	Madam President, I would like I think it is absolutely necessary to use all the tools to reduce emissions in Sweden. It is central to Sweden's confidence and to global leadership in the climate issue. At the same time, we are now seeing, not least in the light of the IPCC report, how the need for climate adaptation is also becoming increasingly urgent in very poor countries. How does the government intend to contribute to the efforts to secure the living conditions of these people?
i-785df56b21f03667-94	Madam President, I would like It is important that Sweden shows leadership not only within our nation's borders but also internationally and globally. There we have the Swedish aid, which really is a support that we can be proud of and that we should protect. Unfortunately, we now have parties talking about even removing aid, which is a disastrous signal to the rest of the world. We also have a responsibility to ensure that climate finance is available. Sweden has now promised, for example, to double its efforts to the UN's Green Climate Fund. This is the kind of leadership that Sweden needs, not that we are backing away from our responsibilities.
i-785df56b21f03667-96	Madam President, I would like It is of course gratifying that the Swedish Armed Forces are practicing on an increasing scale. It is needed in an increasingly uncertain world. The Swedish Armed Forces' growing exercise activities mean that training fields and shooting fields that for a number of years have been unused or sparingly used are now being used to an increasing extent. With this, unfortunately, the number of intrusions into military training and shooting fields in recent years has also increased by 20-30 percent. It is, of course, a danger to the lives of those entering the training field, but it also disrupts the important exercise activity with long stops as a result.
i-785df56b21f03667-99	Madam President, I would like The question of intrusion is an issue to be dealt with by the authority in connection with various types of exercises. It is about preparation and having the resources set aside to deal with things that might happen during an exercise. It's a matter of authority. It must be in the planning activities carried out by the Swedish Armed Forces.
i-785df56b21f03667-100	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. I understand what the Minister for Defence says: The Swedish Armed Forces will work on this issue. I agree. But according to the Secretary of Defense, is there nothing else you could possibly do? This could include, for example, more stringent legislation for this type of crime and better possibilities for monitoring the entry and exits to the training and shooting fields.
i-785df56b21f03667-102	Madam President, I would like I think the wisest thing is that the agency works continuously on this type of issues, tackles any problems that arise and in its evaluations takes into account what conclusions it draws from different types of events. I think this should be the main line for the time being.
i-785df56b21f03667-104	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Per Bolund. In the budget for 2020, the government has allocated SEK 3 1⁄2 billion to the country's municipalities, which SKL has pointed out is not enough for continued sustainable municipal welfare. The risk is that we are facing cuts both in health care and in the care of our elderly, as 110 of Sweden's 290 municipalities are expected to be in deficit this year. Saving suggestions that older people should be served cold food or get a chilly accommodation have already arrived. The Swedish democrats have long warned against this scenario, but you have not listened. On the contrary, you have informed the population that the municipalities would flourish, which they are clearly not doing. While the government has given the municipalities insufficient funding, you have budgeted for a abolished military tax, which is estimated to cost about 6.2 billion. Does the Government consider the abolition of the military tax to be a reasonable priority on the part of the government?
i-785df56b21f03667-108	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to correct Mrs From Utterstedt on the figures. We do not spend the money that Mrs From Utterstedt is talking about, but it is 8 billion in total allocated to the local government sector. We do this because we see the great needs that exist. The government has been constantly pushing and ensuring that more money is allocated to municipal activities, because we know that it is there that much of the important tasks of welfare are carried out. But we're not happy. We think that more money needs to be made available, and we have made that clear. It also states in the agreement that we have reached, the January agreement, that we should continuously increase the funding for municipalities and county councils, or regions, in order to cope with the need to take care of both health care, care and school. In the budget, we have also reduced the military tax. It was important for us to be able to come to an agreement between the parties. It is well known that none of the government parties pushed the issue, but in order for us to reach agreement in the middle of Swedish politics, this was an important priority. Now we can give more support to the municipalities.
i-785df56b21f03667-111	Madam President, I would like The government's policy has ensured that the country's municipalities have, to say the least, a strained economy, which will probably lead to cuts in welfare. It is not worthy of a country like Sweden. It is time the government now assumed its responsibility for our elderly. My supplementary question is: does the Government really think that the government's funding for the municipalities is sufficient?
i-785df56b21f03667-113	Madam President, I would like We believe that this is one of the top priorities. This is also why the government parties have been driving and made sure that there is now a fairly broad consensus that you need to spend more money on municipalities and county councils. This has not always been the case. But we are not satisfied; we think it needs to be done even more. That is why we are putting large sums of money into this year's budget. But we need to come back in the coming budgets with even more funding. In 2017, we allocated SEK 10 billion to the municipalities to meet the challenges that arose when many new Swedes came to our country. We need to work continuously.
i-785df56b21f03667-116	Madam President, I would like The question concerns Minister of Civil Affairs Shekarabi. The life expectancy of our gadgets is getting shorter and shorter. As we become dependent on more and more gadgets, we also buy more new gadgets. It is good for companies but bad for the sustainable society. We have never consumed as much as we do today. Consumption accounts for a large part of the global impact on the climate and is a crucial factor in achieving our climate goals. The life span of appliances, consumer electronics and furniture is much shorter today than it was ten years ago. Low prices make it easier to buy new ones. But it risks contributing to the fact that we have to buy gadgets more and more often, and it also risks increasing the cost over time. The total cost is higher when the coffee maker is to be replaced at ever shorter intervals.
i-785df56b21f03667-120	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Thorbjörnson, for this important question! For a long time, the government has been investing in sustainable consumption issues. During Minister Per Bolund's time as Minister of Consumer Affairs, the government focused many efforts in the area of consumer policy on simply strengthening the sustainability of consumption. These efforts and this focus continue. In addition to this, we work with the Civil Code. If we give consumers the opportunity and the right to demand a high quality of products, we contribute to a more sustainable production. Therefore, within the framework of EU cooperation, the government has pushed for us to extend the reverse burden of proof so that consumers can simply more easily demand the right products and sustainable products. The regulatory framework will enter into force and provide consumers with much stronger protection against producers and contribute to more sustainable production.
i-785df56b21f03667-122	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Civil Affairs. The climate crisis is the great destiny of our time. To manage it, we need to change and reduce our consumption, and to do so we need products with longer durability. Emissions and the impact of consumption do not only apply to us, but this also affects those who work in the textile industry in poor countries, for example, under bad conditions. Climate change often hits the poor parts of the world extra hard.
i-785df56b21f03667-125	Madam President, I would like The government has for a long time been working to make it easy for consumers to choose the right one, i.e. to choose sustainable products from a social, economic and ecological perspective. This is why the Swedish Government, together with the other Nordic governments and states, has supported labelling as a tool for consumers to make environmentally conscious choices. This work continues, and we are also working for public procurement to be used as a tool to promote the labelling of products and services.
i-785df56b21f03667-127	Madam President, I would like In May 2018, our County Governor at home in Värmland, Kenneth Johansson, announced that he would end at the turn of the year. Now we are in September 2019. So it has been 16 months, and we still have no governor in Värmland. During the year, there has been quite a lot of criticism, not least in the media, from all parties – including from the Prime Minister's own party. Written questions have been asked – or at least a written question – in the Riksdag. My colleague Marléne Lund Kopparklint asks there when the government intends to appoint a new County Governor for Värmland County. I have the answer from the Secretary of State here. It is an A4 page with a lot of text, but there is not a single answer to the question. It's just described how it's done when you appoint a governor. I would therefore like to ask the question one more time: when can we get a new governor to Värmland?
i-785df56b21f03667-131	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson, for the question! Let me take this opportunity to pay tribute to the Member of Parliament's commitment to the government administration in Värmland, not least the County Governor's office as the main representative of the Swedish state. I can guarantee Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson that we are working towards this appointment being decided by the government. Then it is that this concerns people, and sometimes there may be conditions that make it necessary for the government to take into account people's conditions and conditions when taking up a position. I would also like to take the opportunity to correct Kjell-Kjell-Arne Ottosson. It is not the case that the County Administrative Board of Värmland is without the head of authority, but that there is a temporary manager waiting for the permanent and ordinary governor. Of course, the government is working to ensure that we have a system where we have as short vacancies as possible. But sometimes it is as it has been here, in connection with the appointment of the County Governor in Värmland County.
i-785df56b21f03667-134	Madam President, I would like Then I would just like to inform the Minister of Civil Affairs that I met with the Head of Authority Johan Blom no later than two weeks ago, so I am well aware that he is in place. A good process is important, and I fully agree with the Minister. Yet this is a little disrespectful and remarkable. Had a well-populated county with far more people than Värmland been treated in the same way? We have important issues such as business, infrastructure, defence and – not least important for Värmland – predatory issues. It's important to get a head of authority in place. Therefore, I would like to ask the question once again: when?
i-785df56b21f03667-137	Madam President, I would like I can reassure the honourable Member that this government has no intention of discriminating against warm-up residents in connection with the appointment of heads of government as much as any other government in modern Swedish history. Of course, we will ensure that the Swedish state administration is doing well in Värmland. I would also like to take this opportunity to congratulate Mr Torsby on the fact that he now has a government service office, which was also announced in connection with the government declaration.
i-785df56b21f03667-140	Madam President, I would like The other week, oil plants were attacked in Saudi Arabia and half of the country's oil production was, albeit temporarily, knocked out. In the attack, drones, among other things, must have been used. Some say that the attack shows that we are facing a partly new threat, which is that you from a long distance and with fairly small and simple means can cause an opponent great damage. Even for a country like Sweden, there is reason to think about and take action to meet this type of threat – small, hard to detect and relatively cheap weapons. My question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist is how the government views this threat from drones and other unmanned vehicles and also our ability to protect us from them.
i-785df56b21f03667-143	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question. Drones are something that occurs regularly in connection with different types of exercise activities and other activities that are carried out within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces. This has prompted much discussion on what we can do about the situation. The measure that has been taken is that the government has submitted proposals to the Riksdag to amend the Protection Act to strengthen the ability to intervene against drones. This means, among other things, that security guards can use force against unmanned craft located within, near or over a protective object. This proposal will be examined by the Riksdag this autumn. I hope that the legislative changes will enter into force as early as 1 January 2020.
i-785df56b21f03667-146	Madam President, I would like I do not have a supplementary question but thank you for your answer. I think there is reason to come back to this discussion again and again.
i-785df56b21f03667-147	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi. We have a very good healthcare system, but it depends on good cooperation between municipal, public and private actors. The 25 per cent health allowance introduced by the Swedish Tax Agency on 1 July has been debated in the past. Purchases of consulting services, rent doctors and rent nurses amounted to a cost of SEK 5.4 billion in 2018. The VAT on this sum is SEK 1.4 billion, a VAT cost that the public is compensated for but that the private may take out of their own cash. In the January agreement, it is very clear that competition neutrality should prevail. My question is: will the government stand by its January agreement?
i-SF7kRieNHvcmNyAQGpdKaw	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Elisabeth Björnsdotter Rahm! The simple answer is yes. The government stands by the agreement in the January agreement. We stand by all the obligations that the government and the cooperation parties have entered into. In this way, we will also deliver on the point of equivalence in welfare. We were, of course, pleased with the information in the budget proposal on compensation for the health allowance – yet another proof that we will deliver what is promised in the January agreement. A promise must be kept, and that also applies in this area.
i-785df56b21f03667-152	Madam President, I would like I noted in the government declaration that 210 million a year would be distributed among 21 regions in the country. However, one does not need to be particularly mathematically knowledgeable to realise that 210 million divided into 21 regions will not be much money for each region. The question remains. The January agreement will not be able to be kept with this promise.
i-785df56b21f03667-154	Madam President, I would like An investigation has specifically looked at the issue of compensation paid to municipalities and county councils for VAT. It was then able to see that we even have overcompensation in the current system. Now the government is adding even more resources to compensation for VAT. Of course this is being taken seriously. We shall continue to monitor developments, and of course the commitments in the January agreement will be respected.
i-785df56b21f03667-155	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. The bond between sports and gambling on sports goes way back in time. In recent decades, the relationship between sport and the gaming industry has further developed and deepened. In the wake of the gaming industry, however, there is a serious and growing problem in terms of match fixing and match fixing. This is one of the biggest threats to competitive sport. In recent years, numerous cases of manipulated sports results with games on them have been discovered. If sports competitions or parts of sports competitions are organised, sport will not be interesting in the long run either to participate in or to watch. In addition, match fixing and match fixing often involve organised crime.
i-785df56b21f03667-159	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Karlsson, for this important question! Match fixing is a serious threat not only to sport in Sweden. Match fixing is a serious threat to trust in our society. This is why the Government has given priority to work on this issue. Since 1 January, the Swedish State has regained control of the gambling market. Now all actors must comply with Swedish law and have a Swedish license. One of the most important parts of the regulation is the work against match fixing. The Inspectorate has now taken over control and coordination of the work against match fixing. We will also receive information from the Swedish Gaming Authority about regulatory measures, i.e. regulations, that intensify the work against match fixing in the near future. This is proof that we are taking this issue seriously. Any suspicion of match fixing is a threat to trust throughout Swedish society. We are going to smoke this phenomenon out, and we are going to do this together with all the actors and authorities involved.
i-785df56b21f03667-163	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for the answer to my question. It feels safe to hear about the important work that is being done in this area from government. In addition, match fixing and match fixing pose a risk of threats and pressure on those active in sport, not least in youth sport. That is why this is particularly important.
i-785df56b21f03667-164	Madam President, I would like An important aspect of this is also the penalty that we have. The message from the government and the Swedish state to anyone who is even considering being involved in something like this is that it will be met by the full power of the state. We now have very clear regulations, close cooperation between the authorities and criminal law tools to combat match fixing, and this is to be done.
i-785df56b21f03667-165	Madam President, I would like For some time now, we have once again a defence on Gotland, and that is of course a good thing. But when the Officers' newspaper recently visited our newest unit, it was almost pure misery that was shown up. The battle group and its staff are in a barracks with a diesel-powered power plant and without their own sewer. First in 2025, a real staff building is expected to be in place. There are no barracks, no dining room, no defence health and no fair. The clearance of the firing range has been appealed. The housing situation of the employees is bordering on pure disaster. Add to this that new P 18:s staffing exhibits the defense's worst age structure, where many will retire within five years. 300 conscripts should be trained per year on Gotland – today there is room for 40. Madam President, I would like My question to the Minister for Defence is: what does the Minister of Defence intend to do to correct the many problems now facing the unit?
i-785df56b21f03667-168	Madam President, I would like The situation is such that we make decisions in the Swedish Parliament to provide funds for the Swedish Armed Forces to carry out their activities. This includes the establishment of new activities on Gotland. Then it is the task of the authority to complete that part. I have visited this unit on several occasions and I can see that construction is being carried out in the area to satisfy local needs, that the business is being developed and that the situation is constantly changing. There are, of course, a number of problems to be addressed. I do not believe that what is happening on Gotland in any way is an end point. This is part of a process where many problems are to be dealt with. It is quite correct to say that there are permits s problems with the shooting field and that there have been appeals and other things. This is dealt with in accordance with the administrative order that prevails in this context. It is good that we have done the establishment on Gotland, but there is still a lot of work to do before we are done.
i-785df56b21f03667-172	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. The pace of the defence structure on Gotland does not impress. It is good that the Minister admits this. Soon we will also need a number of new units around the country, and I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister of Defence intend to take measures that can significantly shorten the lead times that have been shown in the case of the new P 18? And does the Minister of Defence intend to take initiatives that limit the greatly delayed appeal of shooting fields and other infrastructure?
i-785df56b21f03667-174	Madam President, I would like I want to make one thing clear. I think the Gotland staff are doing a good job. I want to have said this so that there is not being thrown a blow shadow so that what is being done does not indicate a great deal of commitment, because I believe that those who are there and who work in the Armed Forces have it. There are problems to be handled, but don't forget that the positions are moved forward quite well in extensive practice activities. When it comes to new establishments, you can take a position on them in the Riksdag before there is any reason to comment on them.
i-785df56b21f03667-177	Madam President, I would like Yesterday's industry has a debate article by the CEO of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. The article has the title.The crime wave scares away foreign skills and describes not only this but also the costs, suffering and consequences for our Swedish entrepreneurs. The sectors most affected are trade, transport and construction. Crime prevention only costs SEK 13 billion, according to the article. The exposure to crime has led one in five traders to consider selling or closing the shop, Madam President. I would therefore like to ask Minister Per Bolund why the current government does not take this mass crime seriously. It is a mass crime which affects our small businesses hard but which, moreover, is often a gateway to a much more serious crime.
i-785df56b21f03667-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an incredibly important question, Helena Bouveng! Of course, it is a huge blow to the traders who are affected by this. It can feel like a pure violation and also a danger to one's own health and to one's relatives. This is, of course, totally unacceptable, and we must act decisively to put an end to this behaviour. The government does so by taking strong action against organised crime, which is often behind this type of action too. We have recently supported a long list from the government of measures to reduce gang crime. It is about crime prevention, increased penalties and criminalising behaviours that have not previously been criminalised. We need to act with vigour. In particular, it is important to hire the police officers and those in the Police Authority who are going to do the job. There we have high ambitions with 10,000 more police employees. They will also be important in combating this type of crime.
i-785df56b21f03667-182	Madam President, I would like It's nice that we agree, but there were many beautiful words here from the Government. Already in 2017, the companies in the Stockholm suburbs of Husby and Spånga closed their stores temporarily in protest that nothing was done to overcome the insecurity you feel. Who wants to work in a shop where shoplifting, robbery and threats belong to everyday life? The number of reported offences is rising rapidly and the clearance rate is falling. When will the government move from words to deeds?
i-785df56b21f03667-185	Madam President, I would like The government has already taken action. We have tightened the penalties for at least some thirty different crimes, and we have also ensured that we now have far more police officers who go out of higher education and can fill these important posts in the Police Authority. Having more police officers present in the streets and squares and in the places where traders also operate is of course incredibly important. But that's not the only thing. We have also decided that you should be able to set up cameras on the part of the Political Authority without applying for permission. So, on point after point, we are now tackling the problems and putting the pressure on them.
i-785df56b21f03667-187	Madam President, I would like Swedish healthcare is of high quality, but healthcare has major challenges in terms of queues and closed care places. Against this background, I was very pleased when I heard about the proposal to set up a health skills council. I have great expectations and believe that it can be really good and that you can ensure that the health care and the university succeed in collaborating and cooperating.
i-89Ka49BFKDpWLAYJ8pbouG	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Dag Larsson! This is indeed a new step and a new key in strengthening the work to supply health care. The honourable Member himself was concerned about what is going on if we are not able to train more people in health care. One of the priority tasks that I expect this National Council of Health Care Competences to start with is to find a better cooperation on the VFU, i.e. the internship opportunities. There has been a difficulty between universities and municipalities, regions and private health care providers in how to organise this so that it becomes really good. Students should be able to continue at the nursing places, specialist nursing places and so on that we actually have out at our higher education institutions and also be able to manage their internships in municipalities and regions. It's an important part.
i-785df56b21f03667-191	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. That makes me very hopeful for the future. I hope, for my part, that not only can we discuss the VFU sites, but we can also have a discussion about the content of the training. I am being reached by signals that, for example, many newly trained nurses stop after quite a short time. This may be due to shortcomings in education – that you are not sufficiently prepared for the challenges you face in clinics and health care departments.
i-785df56b21f03667-192	Madam President, I would like I believe that there is potential for development in such parts as these that the National Council for Health Care needs to look at. One of the reasons why the government is now moving forward and setting up a national care competence council is precisely that we need to find a development of the Swedish model in terms of how we work together to ensure that we get really good education with people who are also well prepared for the labour market. I think this can only improve things.
i-785df56b21f03667-193	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Shekarabi. It concerns the cost compensation. Will Minister of Civil Affairs Shekarabi and the Government implement the new proposal on cost equalisation on 1 January 2020? This is a proposal that means that the Stockholm region will lose about SEK 5 billion, not to the interior of Norrland and the municipalities that need support, but mainly to the other metropolitan regions of Gothenburg and Malmö. This despite criticism from SKL and SCB, which points out that the timetable is too short and that quality-assured data is not available until 1 January 2021.
i-785df56b21f03667-195	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Kjell Jansson! I must first correct the honourable Member – the proposal is exactly the opposite of what he says. The proposal that is now before Parliament means that we are strengthening the balance between metropolitan regions and Swedish sparsely populated areas. The government has made that position, and we are proud of that. It's time for the sparsely populated area. It is Värmlands, Jämtlands, Härjedalens and Gotland's turn. It is the regions in Swedish sparsely populated areas that need to be strengthened, and then we must strengthen the balance between land and city. Then we must have a regional policy that ensures that all the municipalities and all the regions of our country are able to offer their citizens equal welfare. Without a strengthened balance between land and city, we do not get equal welfare. Then the words are that the whole of Sweden should live empty words that do not help the citizens. Stockholm will contribute more, yes. That's the government proposal. With more to the sparsely populated area, and it is really needed.
i-785df56b21f03667-199	Madam President, I would like Shekarabi Government! There is an absolute need for money for Sweden's sparsely populated areas; we fully agree on that. But since you are now taxing the families there with vehicle taxes and other things, they lose a lot of money. But what is at issue here is that the metropolitan regions receive much of the cost compensation from Stockholm, and we do not think that is okay. It is a new Pomperipossa system that is being built up.
i-785df56b21f03667-201	Madam President, I would like I can only take this opportunity to urge Kjell Jansson to start from the facts and from the analyses of the bill, which have been clearly stated. In fact, Kjell Jansson's party colleagues in Gothenburg were so angry about the strengthened levelling, which means that Gothenburg must contribute more, that they invited sparsely populated politicians to Gothenburg to see how it works in reality. No, it is not the big cities that benefit from this proposal. It is Swedish sparsely populated areas, and this should also be the case for the Moderate Coalition Party. It's time for the sparsely populated area.
i-785df56b21f03667-205	Madam President, I would like In Landskrona, Ecolean lacks certain promises of electricity supply to a future factory building. In Båstad, the ventilation company Lindab moves several investments due to lack of electricity. In Malmö Pågen says that you cannot expand because the electricity system is not enough. The list can be made long. South Sweden and Skåne have increasing electricity and capacity shortages. The government has submitted its draft budget for 2020. To be honest, in the energy section, there is no way to find a single reform that meets and solves the electricity problems.
i-785df56b21f03667-208	Madam President, I would like Here it is gratifying to see that we have a positive development. A strong investment is now being made in building new renewable electricity generation throughout Sweden. We are talking about many tens of billions of dollars that since the energy agreement has been invested in expanding wind power in our country. Only in the coming years will wind power production double, and in 2022 about a quarter of the electricity we use in Sweden will come from clean and renewable wind power. This means that we have a strong electricity surplus in our energy system. We export electricity to the rest of Europe and the rest of the Nordic countries, which is a pleasure. At the same time, we have a challenge, which Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson highlights. We need to make sure that electricity is available throughout the country. That is why we have significantly increased the rate of investment in electricity transmission, in expanding electricity lines and in increasing capacity so that we can ensure that electricity is available throughout the country. It is not possible for a day or a week, but in the long term we will make sure that electricity systems are extended so that there is access to electricity throughout the country without any shortage of capacity.
i-785df56b21f03667-212	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Skåne is not in a long-term development, but this is here and now. Let us hope for the sake of the government that it will be a good winter, a mild winter. Otherwise it will blow up, no matter how much electricity we produce in surplus other parts of the year, and wind power will not help d is. In addition, we can fill up with places that have other problems. It is not just a question of industrial problems, which mean that jobs, entrepreneurship and growth are being reduced. From Trelleborg there are signals that you have problems with housing construction in the future.
i-785df56b21f03667-215	Madam President, I would like The development we now see of increased production of renewable electricity is taking place throughout the country, including in Skåne. This will help us to achieve a better balance. We also need to increase investment in the electricity grid. Unfortunately, they've been down for far too long. Not least under the bourgeois government, it was far too low an investment that was made. Now the rate is increasing more than tenfold. This allows us to balance and get electricity that actually solves the capacity problems throughout the country. What we cannot do is do as the Moderates and cut back heavily on the investments that are leading us to reduce our dependence on oil. Locking Sweden into oil dependence is not the solution.
i-785df56b21f03667-218	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister Per Bolund. We are now reintroducing the investment aid for the construction of cheaper rental housing that the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats abruptly put a stop to. Thus they stopped several thousand rental apartments. What conditions does the Government see to get started quickly with the construction of these rental apartments and also new projects? The need is incredibly great of affordable rental apartments.
i-785df56b21f03667-220	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Leif Nysmed. Yes, it was a hard blow for Sweden's builders, who were prepared to put the shovel on the slopes and build a large number of small rental apartments that would fill a hugely important need in the Swedish housing market. Through the abrupt change when the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats tore away the carpet for these companies in the budget, it was a huge blow, and it created a huge uncertainty. Now, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, the government has already given clear authorisation in the spring amending budget to approve the applications that have been submitted. The money is set aside in the budget. We are also on the way out with the new support for investment in housing construction. It will provide long-term conditions and long-term security for all the heroes who build the housing solutions of the future in the Swedish housing market. We must give them good conditions and opportunities to plan. The kind of unserious housing policy that the bourgeois group here in Parliament pushed through damages confidence in Swedish housing policy.
i-785df56b21f03667-223	Madam President, I would like Already in January 2015, Sweden's Byggindustrier concluded that there was limited demand for the expensive housing produced. It was estimated that a maximum of 170 000 could be produced under these conditions – and the prices of dwellings have not fallen. This is evident now that the brakes on the housing market are taking place, which is why it is important that we continue with the investment in cheaper rentals that normal employees can actually demand.
i-785df56b21f03667-226	Madam President, I would like Public utility plays an extremely important role in the Swedish housing market, not least by making available what has been far too lacking for a long time, i.e. rental apartments. Now we have tested a bourgeois-oriented housing policy in which market forces are allowed to prevail completely freely. We have seen the consequences – that it is only built for the top segment, the most expensive apartments. On the other hand, the large part of the population that does not have the thickest wallets without any solution. That is why we now have a more active housing policy than for a very long time. It's necessary.
i-785df56b21f03667-230	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Per Bolund. I have heard here how the Government beats its chest when it comes to housing issues. No, the picture painted is absolutely not correct. According to Boverket, there are 640 000 new homes missing. The Government mentioned before that 24 000 new homes have been built. If that tempo is maintained, it will be at least 27 years before the current shortage has been repaired. I would like to point out, Madam President, that it is actually a question of living people, who either lack housing, are overcrowded or unable to move even though the need exists. This is what it is about, and I want to know what the Government is going to do about it.
i-785df56b21f03667-233	Madam President, I would like I welcome the commitment expressed by Margareta Cederfelt in the speaker's chair. On the other hand, I would have liked this commitment to have come from the bourgeois government when it was responsible for housing policy. At that time not even half as many homes were built per year as we have seen in the last 4-5 years, when a red-green government led the housing policy. This shows that words and actions are not always interrelated. Margareta Cederfelt also, deliberately or accidentally, misunderstood the figure of 24,000. This is what investment support gives rise to, which is far from everything that is built on the Swedish housing market. Many apartments, villas and other buildings are built without investment aid. This means that we have now had a level of construction that we have not seen for a long time and, above all, not during the time of the alliance government, when the construction was at a much lower level than it is now. Without a high level of construction, we will never catch up. An active housing policy is therefore what is needed, and it was completely lacking during the time of the alliance government.
i-785df56b21f03667-237	Madam President, I would like No, unfortunately, I cannot agree with the Government's description. First of all, the current government, with a Social Democratic Prime Minister and a large number of Social Democratic Ministers, has been in office since 2014– that's five years. This means that the government has had many opportunities to address the problem, which nevertheless is growing. From the beginning it was Stockholm that had problems. Then there were other metropolitan regions, and now there is a shortage of housing throughout Sweden. This is also something that the Swedish National Audit Office has reviewed: what the government intends to do when it comes to overcrowding.
i-785df56b21f03667-239	Madam President, I would like Just go to the statistics and see how many homes have started to be built and how many have come out on the Swedish market. It is easy to note that much more housing has now come out than it did during the time of the bourgeois government. We have a high level of construction and will do everything we can to maintain it. It is also being built in a different way than in the meantime with a free housing policy, when there was no active policy. Now, cheap, small rental apartments are being built that do not otherwise enter the market, that is to say, it is being built for once for the needs that exist.
i-785df56b21f03667-242	Madam President, I would like I, too, have a question for Minister Bolund. I would like to dwell on the property. It is particularly difficult for young adults to get their first owned housing. No one can expect to be able to buy an apartment on the finest street as their first home, but if you have saved and have a job, you should be able to buy your first home. This is not the case today, and government policy has made it harder for them without parents with deep pockets to move to their first owned home. In answer to several questions, the Government has said that he is happy to think broadly. Today's hard credit restrictions become a generational weakness.
i-785df56b21f03667-245	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Magdalena Schröder, for an important question! I would say that there are two things that have created, above all, major problems for today's young people. The first is that it has been underinvested for an unacceptably long time in the Swedish housing market. It has been built far too little for decades. This is a debt with which we are now living and which creates great difficulties. The second is that only very expensive apartments have been built, especially in the metropolitan areas. Prices, not least in Stockholm, have risen enormously over the last ten years. It is clear that this makes it more difficult for a young person to enter the housing market every year. Instead, we are now seeing a balanced price trend, which means that there is actually a hope for young people to be able to enter the housing market. I would also like to question a little bit the image that is being spread by Magdalena Schröder. When we look at mortgage statistics, it turns out that the proportion of young borrowers has not decreased at all, but remains at the same level. On the other hand, you borrow a little less. So you adapt your dwelling to the financial situation – perhaps buy a dwelling a little further out from the city centre or a little smaller one. This also reduces the risk in one's own economy.
i-785df56b21f03667-248	Madam President, I would like This was the first change of line where Per Bolund did not accuse the alliance government but talked about his own policy – that was nice! It is clear that it is underinvested in the housing market, but one cannot just focus on building new ones. New production accounts for a few per cent of the housing market. We must make better use of the existing stock.
i-785df56b21f03667-251	Madam President, I would like The fact that it has been underinvested for a long time will probably also have to take on some of the responsibility for the alliance government, since housing policy has been governed for eight years. But we need to ensure that we have better mobility in the housing market. We have also decided in the budget that we should have a new cap on the deferral amount for the capital gains tax, which is now at SEK 3 million. This means that there is not as much cost for the person who is moving away from an accommodation, for example from a villa that you feel is too large to a better adapted accommodation. It also allows the villa to become accessible to, for example, a family of young children. Sweden's position as a space nation
i-785df56b21f03667-254	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ernkrans, who is also responsible for space issues. In a joint investigation, the Swedish Space Agency and SSC have concluded that the broadcasting of small satellites from Esrange in Kiruna has the potential to be an extremely profitable business. Esrange as a satellite base would make Sweden an important player in space travel. Against this background, I find it extremely strange that the government has not chosen to take the opportunity to give SSC the opportunity to strengthen Sweden's position in satellite launch.
i-785df56b21f03667-256	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mattias Karlsson, for the question! I am very happy and proud to belong to a government that for the first time in many years delivers not only words but also action and money to strengthen Sweden as a space nation. As early as this year, we're adding 150 million to the Space Board. We follow this up by strengthening the Space Board's funding by 150 million annually. This will provide space research and space industry with opportunities for new development areas. It will benefit all regions throughout our country dealing with space and space industries.
i-785df56b21f03667-257	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its answer. I think it is a good thing that the Space Board gets more money even if the first 150 million goes to cover a budget deficit. Unfortunately, this is marginal in relation to what a targeted investment in satellite launch from Esrange in Kiruna could have done, both in jobs and in status. But we may say congratulations to the Andøya Space Center in Norway, which is now getting a relatively big head start in the space race that is going on.
i-785df56b21f03667-259	Madam President, I would like We should remember that Esrange and our space base are very well in being first and taking new market shares to launch small satellites into orbit. In fact, there are no others who have such a perfect location as Esrange. Only last year, the government invested SEK 60 million in Esrange to set up a test track for small satellites. It hasn't started yet, but it will soon. The dialogue continues with Esrange on how to take on continued initiatives, but Esrange is very good at doing. We're a committed space nation, and Space Sweden knows that now.
