i-eded400aa1fab400-0	Madam President, I would like People have come to Sweden for generations to work and contribute to our society. We have also taken great responsibility for people on the run. We'll be proud of that. However, affirming openness to the outside world is not the same as unregulated immigration. Legally secure and regulated immigration means that a no should be a no and that a yes should be a yes – a promise of a real opportunity to build its future in our country. Sweden is currently failing in both parts. It's serious. Successful integration strengthens Sweden and a failure lowers us. Integration does not take place in any kind of vacuum, but is directly related to migration. For integration problems to be solved, our reception of asylum needs to be considerably lower than today. The Moderates are the only party that has a coherent integration policy, and we want to turn every stone around to find new solutions. There is a fundamental idea in Sweden that integration is about a process from two directions, where immigrants and Swedish-born people will be integrated into a new multicultural society. This is wrong, Madam President. On the contrary, politics should focus fully on the fact that those who come to Sweden are expected to become part of Swedish society. It is also an obligation for newcomers to actively integrate and actively make themselves employable and start contributing to Sweden. Madam President, I would like The big gap in Sweden today is between those who have a job and those who do not. The unemployment rate of immigrants is much higher than that of natives. Most of those receiving subsistence support were born abroad. It is clear that the government has not been able to use the long-term boom to reduce the integration problems that Sweden has. Instead, the differences between immigrants and Swedish-born have become even more clear. At the same time as unemployment has increased among immigrants, unemployment among Swedish-born people has almost never been so low. At the same time as Swedish-borns with income support are decreasing, the number of immigrants with income support is increasing. According to a report from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, only 6 per cent of newcomers are in work without support after two years. This is not only unacceptable but also totally unsustainable and a huge failure of the government and its cooperation parties. That is why, Madam President, far-reaching reforms are needed across the board in order for more people to find work and self-sufficiency. We Moderates have proposals to bring more people into the labour market and into their own livelihoods in the past. It is about the introduction of entry jobs, so that more people with lower education and shorter work experience can learn the job at work, better opportunities to start a business as new arrivals, clearer requirements to learn Swedish, language requirements for citizenship, livelihood requirements for family migration, clearer requirements and focus on Swedish values, review of the Discrimination Act and to counteract parallel societies and oppression, to name but a few. More people must also enter the labour market during their first years in Sweden in order not to get caught up in long-term exclusion and dependency on benefits. After you have come to Sweden and received a residence permit, you can participate in Arbetsförmedlingen's establishment programme during their first two years here. There the road to integration and self-sufficiency should start. However, the establishment program delivers very poor results. There is a need for clearer requirements to learn Swedish and to learn to meet the requirements of the Swedish labour market. Since the Public Employment Service has a great deal of clarity and the results for the establishment of new arrivals are frankly totally unacceptable, we Moderates believe, for example, that those municipalities that want to be able to take over responsibility for the integration and establishment of new arrivals. Examples of municipalities that have succeeded very well here are moderate-led Solna and Växjö, while Social Democratic-led municipalities in general and Social Democratic-led Malmö in particular belong to the ironing class. Madam President, I would like We also want to implement a major grant reform – a ceiling. Among those who receive their main income from the establishment allowance, the driving forces are to start working small – sometimes even negative, especially for families with children and especially here in Sweden where there may be the greatest threshold effects in the EU. In Sweden, a self-evident principle should apply: No one who can work should earn more from grants than from work. It could, should and should be a matter of course. In order for replacement and benefit schemes not to be brake blocks for integration, or even to affect the legitimacy of the systems, new arrivals will gradually become more involved in the right to various benefits and social benefits. Full access to Swedish grants and benefits should be obtained only through one's own work. Madam President, I would like As the Red-Green Government, putting the management of integration, jobs and contributions – perhaps our biggest social problem – in a moth bag is not the way forward for Sweden. Immigration is being increased while the costs and problems are being passed on to local authorities without compensating them for this, which is, of course, totally untenable. And there is an internal disagreement in the government, not only about what applies or what is to be done, but also about doing anything at all in terms of migration and integration. Madam President, I would like It is not these messages, or rather the absence of them, that are needed. It is also not in this way that challenges for individuals or challenges for Sweden as a whole are solved.
i-eded400aa1fab400-15	Madam President, I would like In its budget motion, the Left Party takes a holistic approach to the growing gaps. We want Sweden to become the world's most equal country. We know that economic equality is good for the development of a country. In equal societies, health is better, security is greater, economic growth is higher. In recent decades, inequalities in society have increased. At the same time, the redeployment of the tax system has deteriorated significantly. Relative poverty has doubled in less than ten years. At the same time, the economic elite have improved in Sweden. In this situation, Madam President, the government is presenting a budget that primarily benefits rich men, at the expense of welfare. People with income of over SEK 60 000 a month, that is to say, most of us in this House today, will receive reduced tax as the military tax is removed next year. The necessary efforts on welfare are lacking, despite the fact that around Sweden there are alarm reports of major cuts in school, child psychiatry, elderly care and health care. The Left Party has other priorities. That is why we are presenting a plan of reforms to increase equality in society. The Left Party wants to invest in general welfare, i.e. investments that are central to a more equal society in Sweden. Madam President, I would like As the Left Party's proposal for appropriations in the field of expenditure is above the established level, I cannot reserve myself in favour of our budgetary motion. The left-wing budgetary options should be seen as a whole. That is why I choose to abstain from a position and instead present a specific opinion. The Left Party wants a society for all, not just for a few. It requires a policy that gives everyone, regardless of their background, the same opportunities and the same right to good education, work and housing. The Left Party wants to pursue a policy of inclusion, that is, a policy that counteracts segregation and facilitates establishment in society. It should be a policy that lays the foundations for a more equal society. A well-functioning reception of refugees is an important part of an inclusive policy. The reception of people on the run from the asylum process to the housing situation and the establishment of society is characterised by the centrality of individual human rights. If people are given permanent residence permits and the opportunity to live together with their families, it improves the conditions for establishing themselves in society. General welfare is central to upholding the rights that it is everyone's duty to protect. Madam President, I would like With regard to the policy against segregation, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Left Party received a ten-year investment of SEK 22 billion for mills, rural municipalities, districts and suburbs around Sweden. The funds allocated could be sought, in particular, by municipalities with areas characterised by, for example, high unemployment, low levels of education and low voting turnout. As a result of the Swedish Parliament's vote in favour of the joint proposal put forward by the Moderates and Christian Democrats, the grant decreased sharply, and the authority responsible for managing the initiative, the Delegation against segregation, Delmos, was threatened by closure. I welcome the fact that the government is now coming back with the effort to combat segregation, which is important for increasing equality in Sweden. Like the committee, I believe that Delmos can contribute to long-term sustainability, and I therefore welcome the proposal to continue funding for the Authority's administrative appropriations. Madam President, I would like The Left Party is a feminist party. This means that we want women and men, as well as girls and boys to have equal rights and opportunities. Our feminist policy permeates all our political proposals and aims to achieve equality, because equality is not something that comes of itself. For us to have an equal society, political will and concrete proposals are needed. Feminist change is absolutely necessary and fully possible. Joint women's struggle has given us the right to vote, the right to abortion and sexual rights. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries, but we still have a lot to do. Pay differentials, men's violence against women, discrimination and unpaid work at home remain major challenges for Swedish society. Men die more at work while more women wear themselves out and have to go down in working hours or simply become poor pensioners. Madam President, I would like If we are to be honest, we in this House are not wearing ourselves out, but perhaps we should make a little more effort for political change– if we want it. The European Institute for Gender Equality shows that in recent years we have reduced inequality somewhat, but this is not the case for the economy. On the contrary, there is a downward trend in the economic situation of women and men. The income gap remains and the risk of poverty is increasing, especially for older women, single parents, foreign born and disabled people. We obviously still have a lot of work to do here in Sweden. Let me make a small conclusion, Madam President, and three quick simple observations: Do we want that, Madam President, or do we want to change it? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank How about we think about Christmas and New Year, and when we get back we make sure that we start 2020 with the ambition and willingness to make the next decade the time when Sweden became the most equal country.
i-eded400aa1fab400-30	Madam President, I would like We are therefore debating Category 13 of the state budget for next year, 2020, which concerns gender equality and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. In my speech, I will focus on the establishment and integration of new arrivals, and Mrs Pethrus will later talk about gender equality. Madam President, I would like The segregation has created a divided Sweden. In one part the wheels spin like never before, with a middle class that can choose and wreck in education, jobs and consumption. In the second part there are children who do not have a single classmate whose native language is Swedish or who have ever seen their parents go to work. They get impressed that it doesn't even pay to try. Lars Åberg describes it as follows in his new book All inclusive: welcome to the new country. Of course, immigration itself is not the problem. It has never been, or rarely has it been. People mix, horizons widen. The problem lies in politics, which has not taken into account what can be a reasonable scale and speed and which has behaved as if everyone as an immigrant is the same and, in some sense, victims, not of the communities they have left, but of what they have come to. We should have looked more at the individuals and we should have protected the common. Over the last few decades, we have not succeeded in either. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like Of course, a series of measures and changes are needed to reverse developments and to start paying off the integration debt that has been built up. The Christian Democrats' starting point is that people who have come to our country should be given the opportunity to take responsibility for their own lives quickly. The state should help to facilitate and create conditions, not kill its own drive through long waiting and passivity. As an asylum seeker, you are not expected to learn the language directly or contribute what you can. The signal thus becomes that integration is not so important. There's something that can wait. Those who then receive a residence permit have lost time, energy and motivation. However, those who receive a residence permit will eventually be placed in a more regular establishment programme for a maximum of two years, including SFI, Swedish for immigrants, and social orientation. But the fact that, after these two years, just over a third of the new arrivals move on to regular or subsidised work or regular education shows that something needs to change. For too many, the establishment programme ultimately leads to supply support and exclusion. Denmark and Norway have recently introduced a more flexible duration of their programmes. In Norway, the programme can last for two to three years depending on needs and in Denmark for one to five years. The Public Employment Service has also pointed out in particular that the short-term establishment programme is a problem for women, as these have generally come here with a lower level of education and are further away from the labour market. With a flexible start-up programme, the newcomers who are still deemed to need action after two years would be able to have an extended programme. Of course, flexibility in the programme should mean that no one who learns the language and has been hired is held back. But we need to do more not to let go of a group that is otherwise in danger of falling into a long way off. For municipalities, this can mean a relief as the responsibility of the state is extended, not least financially, for the group that is not yet matchable. But it can not only be about the length of the programme; of course, it is also a matter of making the SFI more personalised and clearly linked to work and self-sufficiency. The Christian Democrats want each municipality individually or in regional collaboration to offer SFI with a professional orientation. Language needs to be made clearer as an incentive to become part of the community. For example, the Christian Democrats propose a language requirement for a permanent residence permit in Sweden. If you look closely at several comparable countries, you will find that we in Sweden have a very different view of the importance of learning the language. This can be seen as a bit strange given the high demands we have to make to get into the Swedish labour market. This doesn't make any sense, Madam President. Newly arrived women participate to a lesser extent in various preparatory activities compared to men. They are later registered with the Swedish Employment Service and start Swedish for immigrants later. In Sweden, newly arrived women and men are not met with the same expectations and demands to work. Several studies show that newly arrived women are offered less extensive and less relevant labour market measures than newly arrived men. Madam President, I would like Isolation is not the answer to getting more foreign-born women to work. Activities to prepare women on parental leave through language studies and social orientation are a much better answer. However, the design of these activities must focus in particular on women and their preconditions. Activities must be combined with family life. Training should be compulsory and also enable training courses that can actually lead to jobs through mentoring programmes and professional orientations. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to talk about the important role of civil society in the work on integration. Evaluations from a number of Swedish authorities show that civil society organisations played a crucial role in the reception of all asylum seekers who came in 2015. They showed a force, a flexibility and an organisational capacity that the relevant authorities could neither fully match nor take advantage of. We must build on this and learn lessons from it. We need to create much longer-term conditions so that civil society can develop its efforts in the area of integration. Civil society organisations often feel that politics steers their activities in a too narrow direction and that detailed management spoils good ideas. Among other things, there is often a need for a narrow target group, which is perceived as hindering the organisation of measures and excluding other groups that could strengthen work on integration. We Christian Democrats want to see policies that both protect and encourage civil society and where the public, with close follow-up, will provide support for the work that takes place on the basis of people's equal value and democratic principles. Madam President, I would like It is in the voluntary associations that the values and values needed for a functioning society are confirmed and acquired. This is where meetings arise, knowledge is transferred and the alien becomes familiar. This is where we can be a us. Finally, Madam President, we are one of the strongest words that exist. It's a word that binds people together. We make a stranger a neighbor, and we are the word that can build community.
i-eded400aa1fab400-49	Madam President, audiences and any viewers! This morning, the Swedish Parliament will debate the state budget's expenditure category 13, Gender equality and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. The first part of the debate will be on segregation, integration, establishment and discrimination and the second part on gender equality. Migration policy, on the other hand, is being debated at another time, but in this area there is today a large majority in the Riksdag in order to ensure that reception is kept much tighter than with the policy in force until 2015. One of today's great challenges is segregation, something that Mats Green of the Moderates did not mention with one word in his speech. These challenges have consequences for people's lives. And it's not that hard to describe the problem. The reality is simply quite different depending on the residential area of a municipality you are in. In some areas people earn well with money, are healthy, live large and with high standards and watch their children go out of school with good results. On average, in such an area you can expect to live about a decade longer than in some other areas. There, economic poverty is greater and unemployment is higher. More people die from cardiovascular diseases, fewer votes, more difficulties in overcrowding, higher crime rates and lower school scores. In short, we have great differences in living conditions and life chances in our country, and class divisions have addresses. As I said, it is easy to describe segregation and easy to get caught up in stories of problems and misery. But as a social democrat, I can never be content to be upset by injustices and to tell you how miserable it is. We want to, and we will, do something about the problems that we see. We are also convinced that the citizens and voters expect politicians to achieve something more than graphic descriptions of misery. I would therefore like to use this opportunity to talk about Gårdsten, a typical so-called alienation area in Angered in northeastern Gothenburg. I want to talk about Gårdsten, not because it is paradise on earth or because there are no problems there, but because I think it is important to show that it is actually possible to reverse developments in an area with political will, investment and active measures. The story of Gårdsten begins with worn-out housing, insecurity and hopelessness. But more than 20 years ago, a journey of change began. A new municipal housing company was formed with a board consisting of residents and a mission to develop not only the properties but the entire area. Since then it has been invested in the renovation and greening of the old houses, and many new homes in various forms have been added. The business centre has been developed, and many residents have got jobs at or through the housing company. It has been arranged for homework, adult migration and language preschools. The work has been developed over time but all the time has been done in collaboration between housing companies, associations, police, school, social services and various companies. Not least, the power of those living in the area has been harnessed. Last spring, the police removed Gårdsten from the list of particularly vulnerable areas. At the same time, unemployment has decreased, security and well-being have increased and more have participated in general elections. It has not been a quick fix, and the work is far from finished. However, some conclusions can still be drawn from the example of Gårdsten. First of all, it's possible. Secondly, long-term sustainability and perseverance are required. Thirdly, all actors present in an area must work together towards a common objective. Efforts for a more equal society and reduced segregation span many areas, such as education, housing, public health, culture, democracy and jobs. Tax cuts and lower wages solve very few of the challenges we see. Instead, it is investment in both people and infrastructure that is needed. State interventions against segregation have all too often taken the form of more or less short-term projects. The wheel has been invented over and over again and in many different places. Therefore, we welcome the creation and now the reintroduction of Delmos, a government agency that will collect and disseminate knowledge and coordinate efforts to counter segregation and its consequences. As little as the National Agency for Education will take over teaching in the classrooms or the principals' responsibility in the country's schools, Delmos will carry out the entire work against segregation. But if we are to have a long-term, sustainable and coordinated work based on research and knowledge, we also need someone to lead that work. The fact that adults have work to do and make a living is fundamental in order to reduce gaps and create equal opportunities for life. In recent years, employment in Sweden has reached record levels, yet many are still outside the labour market. A particularly vulnerable group is born overseas, especially women born abroad. Although the average time taken for a newcomer to enter the labour market has almost halved from nine to barely five years in recent years, more measures are needed. For us Social Democrats, it was completely unthinkable to have a contribution to keep women at home with children instead of working. Instead, we have introduced training requirements, so that those who have come to Sweden with such a short education that it will be difficult to get jobs to be offered but are also expected to participate in education. In the draft budget for next year, support for municipalities that have taken a great deal of responsibility for the reception of refugees is increased, the emphasis on language training for parents' leave is extended and community information is extended to new arrivals, also with support for people's education and more hours. A continued focus is on getting more foreign-born women into work through, among other things, education, attitude changes and active labour market policy tools such as extra services. All this and much more are efforts that speed up establishment and improve integration and are therefore well-invested money, both for those who can find their place more quickly in society and for all of us. Discrimination, racism, Islamophobia, anti-Semitism, homophobia and so on are not only obscene and offensive, but also prevent people from contributing to our common society. We must therefore do more to ensure that everyone in our country, no matter what we look like, what we believe in, who we love and what gender or functionality we have, has the same right to feel security and have power over our lives. It is therefore welcome that the government spends more money on combating discrimination and racism. Basically, the debate is about Category 13 in the state budget about what kind of society we want Sweden to be, whether it wants it to be a country that is torn apart by class divisions and contradictions, where insecurity increases for everyone, or a country where we all form a common we and where everyone is expected to do their part but also gets their rightful place. For us Social Democrats, the choice is self-evident. We need to make investments in what builds Sweden strong. We are convinced that a stronger society and a better welfare with equal chances of life and a level playing field will lead to a more secure future for all of us. Unlike the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, who pursue some sort of Maradona policy in this area, that is to say, cut back resources and have few or no concrete proposals, but instead seem to rely on God's hand, we are prepared, together with others, to invest both money and political will in such a building of society. I therefore call for the proposal of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs to be approved.
i-eded400aa1fab400-74	Madam President, I would like I will think of the word floskelbingo unseemly. I would have had great respect for Anna Johansson's entrance if it had somehow had something to do with reality. One third of all the measures that Anna Johansson claims this government has implemented to improve integration are measures that the Moderates and Christian Democrats have had to force forward in joint migration talks with the government, often against the government's express will. I note that, of course, Anna Johansson does not want to talk about migration but says that the issue belongs in another committee. Nevertheless, Madam President, we must be honest and say that it is absolutely impossible to separate migration from integration. Of course this goes hand in hand. She also says that there is a broad consensus on the need to reduce Swedish reception. It's all wrong. Her party leader, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, stated a few months ago that you need to reduce the Swedish reception. Then the Deputy Prime Minister, the Environment Party's Isabella Lövin, went out and said: No, we absolutely will not. So there is no line from the government at all. Anna Johansson also talks about tax cuts and investments in welfare. I can therefore say that this is my line, Madam President. After all, it is the Social Democrats who lower the military tax for the most well-off in Sweden, while the Moderates want to invest twice as much in supporting the municipalities in their huge challenge that the Social Democratic Government has given them, so this does not add up for five cents. Again: What are the Social Democrats thinking ahead for more people to get to work, go out of school with full grades and learn Swedish?
i-eded400aa1fab400-80	Madam President, I would like I note again that it is, of course, easy to yell at others. If I have not read your draft budget quite wrong, there is also the abolition of the military tax in this House. But it's possible I've misunderstood something. I think it is good that the municipalities get more money. At the same time, municipalities will need all the resources they can get if the moderate budget is approved in plenary. Then all other efforts that support the municipalities in their work on integration and to counteract segregation will disappear, because you are cutting back on the Public Employment Service, on integration efforts and on efforts towards segregation. In that case, municipalities will be responsible for their livelihoods and for integrating people. We believe it is important for the state to assume its responsibilities. Through the actions that can be carried out with the support of money from Delmos, for example, but also in collaboration between police, social services, employment services and many others, it is actually possible to change in real terms. It's not a flosskel. The honourable Member is warmly welcome to Gårdsten to see for himself that changes can actually be made with political will and investment.
i-eded400aa1fab400-84	Madam President, I would like We went to elections to reduce taxes for all, especially for those with low incomes. The Social Democrats went to elections to the contrary. They do the opposite: They lower taxes for the most wealthy – that's how it is – but refuse to lower taxes for nurses, for example. There you can see how the proud slogans of the election movement changed to their opposite. The Moderates have thus invested twice as much in Sweden's municipalities as this government wants to do. The government also wants to increase the Swedish reception. At the same time, it is ensured that the municipalities, which are sitting with black people, have no financial or other means of dealing with this. It does not make sense, and it is not solved by an authority, that is, the delegation against segregation that adds nothing. What is needed are active measures and tougher demands to get into work, support and to learn Swedish from day one.
i-eded400aa1fab400-86	Madam President, I would like During the previous term of office and this term of office, the government has contributed more than 30 billion to municipalities and regions. It's necessary. We are also prepared to review the surplus target to free up additional resources to welfare. That is a very clear priority in all our policies. In the eight years that Mats Green's party sat at the helm, it was indeed tax cuts for those with lower incomes, but it was above all a policy that favoured high-income earners and men at the expense of low-income earners and women. Now, for a number of years, we have tried to correct this and are now investing both in better integration and more money for the municipalities. I think it is a better policy for Sweden's future.
i-eded400aa1fab400-89	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that, in terms of gender equality, one of the two important areas we are discussing today, my colleague, Alireza Akhondi, will be responsible for the intervention of the Center Party, while I will be talking about integration. I'd like to start with the story of Haider. I met her on a visit to Alvesta a few weeks ago at a meeting place called Centrum. Since 18 years ago, she came from Chechnya from war and many other terrible events, she had been with support, had been on long-term sick leave and had gone from case handler to case handler. Suddenly, at some point while she was in a conversation, she heard another person in the same corridor talking with enthusiasm about how she could get women to work. Haider went up to Golnoush Lundén Keshavarzi, as the person's name was, and heard about the project Forum Centre. Suddenly, one day, someone saw her. She became head of catering in central Alvesta together with another group of women in the same position as everyone turned their backs. The pride in her eyes is worth many minutes of this speech – a pride in finally getting a job, taking care of herself and standing independently. This reminds us that even when a person has been flown between many different systems and the bureaucracy in Sweden with all its benevolent projects has decided that a person cannot succeed in getting a job, it does not mean that it is impossible. On paper, this debate is about Expenditure Area 13 Integration and Gender Equality. But in many ways it is about whether integration and indeed immigration can succeed. An obvious answer to that is that it can of course succeed. A million people born abroad in this country go to work. They are doctors, engineers, cleaners, industrialists and small businessmen who make the whole of Sweden work, and we meet them every day without even thinking about it. Of course, integration can succeed in Sweden. The problem is that at the same time we know that there are unreasonable numbers of people who are not there. A quarter of a million people are vulnerable and unemployed in Sweden. Many of them were born abroad. A majority of the unemployed are born abroad. In the midst of the boom, these people are outside, even though there is a pressing need for labour. We see how the employment gap in Sweden, despite all this goodwill, is one of the largest in the whole Western world. We have so long experienced that people who are newly arrived in this country meet with passivity, waiting, more waiting and many hours of nothing instead of being challenged, getting into work, feeling that something is happening with all the energy and dreams that they had when they came to Sweden. Note that we have all failed in this. This applies to both the Alliance, the Social Democrats and the current government. We haven't been good at it. I would ask you to take note of the message from the Swedish Democrats. I hear guilt. I hear generalizations. I hear talk about volumes. I'm a blender. But where are the solutions? What's the way forward? These are the solutions that this debate is about. As we entered into this cooperation with the government, we realized that we could not prioritise positions, positions and prestige. We must give priority to policy so that we can reverse developments in integration, among other things. That is why we support this draft budget. We support the committee's proposal because we must start to reverse developments, and there is much in this budget that does. For the first time, the tax is removed on those who are new to the Swedish labour market. When hiring such a person, you should not have to pay employers' contributions for two years. That's why it gets a lot easier. For the first time, we start working on a broader front with start-ups with all the small businesses that do not have collective agreements and with all the agencies that often do the most to bring in people who are outside. For the first time, we are also beginning to make sure that Arbetsförmedlingen is not just about storage, as it often does, but about the provision of jobs. I would particularly like to mention what we are doing for those who are coming to Sweden, those who are waiting and passivity. The idea is that they should meet a challenge. They will have the opportunity to educate themselves, practice and struggle in their faces sweat during an intense year with many hours per week, where we are closely linked to the successful examples that exist in different municipalities. That way we can reverse developments to the full. So we're going to start turning things around right away when people come to this country. Each day must be filled with close contact with a workplace and with the language linked to the work. Is this possible? Together with my colleague, Alireza Akhondi, I recently visited Sollentuna. It has created such a programme for those people who otherwise thought the bureaucracy was not possible to get into work. Of the 150 who joined this program, 90 were given jobs. So how did you do it? It was ensured that every day was full of intensive work and practice, with language mentors who joined the workplace and with Swedish when you finished your internship for the day. All the time you see man, just as you saw Haider in Alvesta, instead of just sending people on to new programs. Is that enough in Category 13 of this budget? Of course it doesn't. We need to reform the SFI, where most unfortunately do not learn the Swedish they are going to learn. We need to turn it into something based on results so that you get paid for what you achieve. Of course, we need to make it easier to start small and growing businesses so that up to a certain level you get a much simpler administration and taxation. Of course we have to do many other things. Of course, we must make a huge leap in the large outlying areas, where schools, as many have mentioned, are left behind, where entrepreneurship is left behind, where the urban environment is lagging behind, where the garbage cans are not emptied and where the codes do not work in the staircases. There must be a fundamental difference in our areas of exclusion, and it will be a major project in the future. There too we now have the will to move forward. However, however much we fight, we must not forget that this is ultimately about individuals who are fighting, who want to give and who are able to give. The bureaucracy must not stand in the way of people's willingness to contribute even when the system and all our good intentions have given up. If they can in Sollentuna we can in all of Sweden. We can get people to work. We can succeed in integration. We can succeed in immigration.
i-eded400aa1fab400-114	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal, which is based on a political agreement between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals. Sweden is the land of opportunity. All children have access to world-class general education, regardless of the size of their parents' wallet. From Ystad to Haparanda, thousands of people annually realize their entrepreneurial dreams. In Sweden it is not where you come from that matters but where you are going. In any case, this applies to some of our society: the people who were born in Sweden and the people who were lucky enough to be born with the right conditions. But in mine and Liberal Sweden, Sweden will be a country of opportunity for all people who live here. All too often equal opportunities are equated with equality – that everyone should have exactly the same and that we should subsidise today's divides. But people who are in a cemented exclusion do not need increased contributions, a pat on the shoulder or low expectations. What they need is increased chances of life and being able to shape their own future. This can only be done through a dynamic labour market in which everyone's skills are exploited and there is zero tolerance to parallel societies. Madam President, I would like Sweden is facing a coming recession. Long-term unemployment is increasing for the first time in many years, and this will have devastating consequences for groups already in a vulnerable situation. This applies in particular to women born abroad. Unemployment is expected to increase dramatically in this particular group, and now that the economy is slowing down, the situation will not improve but, on the contrary, worsen. The fact that women born abroad are even more marginalised is worrying, not only because it slows down their private economy and also the national economy as subsidies increase, but also because it hits twice as hard on integration, which is already poorly functioning in Sweden. I usually say that if a woman is integrated into Swedish society, a whole family is integrated. I will continue to make this statement until the day when we solve integration, so that men and women have the same conditions and opportunities to influence their own lives, have a chance to get into work and have the opportunity to support themselves. This is what leads to successful integration and is the backbone: that people are proud to be part of society and be involved in contributing. Madam President, I would like If the Liberals had had their own majority in this House, we would not, of course, agree to all the points contained in the January agreement. This applies not least to development time and family week. But now we are in this constellation. We have negotiated, and in compromises you have to give and take. That is why I am in favour of a number of Liberal integration measures coming into place soon. I would like to highlight some of the most important efforts that we Liberals have made in the January agreement and which will strengthen integration. Next year, the start-up jobs will be introduced. They will be available throughout Sweden, in companies with and without collective agreements. The creation jobs will also be used by the skills companies, which are important actors who manage to get many foreign-born people into work. Only in 2018 did they ensure that 70 000 foreign born people got a job and a living of their own. With the start-up jobs, the thresholds will be lowered, and more companies will dare to hire untested workers. Many labour market programmes have failed to have full impact, due to the complexity of the systems, while small businesses have been excluded from contributing to the creation of more jobs. It is therefore important to change this and enable more employers to contribute to integration. This has been a central point for the Liberals in the January agreement. By making it easier and cheaper to hire, more people can go from grants to jobs. Not least, this perspective is important now that the recession is approaching. But that, of course, is not enough. In order for us to solve the integration problems in the long term, we need to invest in the Swedish language. The language is the ticket into Swedish society. The language is about freedom and self-determination and power over their own lives. It is about children and young people being given the right conditions to pass school, to get a job and their own salary and to participate fully in society. Liberals have long pushed the issue of the importance of language for integration. Already in 2002, we proposed a language test for citizenship but were then criticised from both left and right for our demands regarding the importance of the language. But we continue to lift up the importance of language for the individual, for society and for integration. I am therefore pleased that a quality boost for SFI and a compulsory language preschool is now being investigated. A quality boost is needed within SFI, and this applies to both municipal and independent actors. Municipalities will take greater responsibility for monitoring SFI education in terms of quality and results. The school inspectorate must continue to review the activities. SFI needs to be better adapted to each individual's knowledge and conditions. An academic often has completely different prerequisites for learning a new language than someone who has not completed comprehensive school. It must also be possible to study SFI in evenings, weekends and during the summer. More cooperation between municipalities is needed here because smaller municipalities may find it difficult to offer a wide and flexible SFI range. At the same time, it must be made easier to study vocational education and training that is more clearly linked to traineeships. Madam President, I would like Language education, however, must reach all ages. Through the introduction of a compulsory language preschool, more children learn Swedish early, which is the key to learning fluent Swedish. Children who have been in preschool and have had better language development are easier to get through school. In addition, children's participation in preschool can have a positive effect on new arrivals, especially women's, opportunities to get a job, as they receive relief for at least 15 hours a week. For me, it is important not just to talk about the support that women in the suburbs need. We will also acknowledge their amazing strength and inherent power. There is another reason why it is important to highlight women in particular. They are the key to the future of the next generation. Research shows that children of newly arrived women who work succeed better in school and are easier to integrate into Swedish society. If we invest in women, children can have the opportunity for a better future. This is a conviction I will never give up. The truth is, if we fail, the next generation of children and young people will inherit the alienation of their parents. Parallel communities will expand and crime will increase even more. Failure to integrate cannot be an option for any party in this house. In mine and Liberal Sweden, Sweden will be a country of opportunity for all people who live here. This must be the starting point for us to succeed in integration, create inclusion, empower and enable all individuals in this country to shape their own future. But then we need action and political will from all of us here.
i-eded400aa1fab400-131	Madam President, I would like In this debate we will talk, among other things, about the establishment of newly arrived immigrants, the theme of which is called. How this happens and what conditions are given are infinitely important. Having the opportunity to really get into the new society and be able to participate and contribute fully is a prerequisite for feeling like a whole person in the new country. You need to feel safe, involved and accepted in order to feel a part of society. Children need to feel at home in the new place, get new friends, develop the language, and take advantage of school. We in the Green Party are happy that people who have fled from war and oppression get a new chance in Sweden. We Greens will always stand up for human rights. Sweden should be a humanitarian country where people live together and not in parallel realities. But for new arrivals to be able to establish themselves in a good way, we need to invest in integration. It is a joint responsibility that we all have. Doing so together in the best possible way is crucial for people's living conditions and life chances. Madam President, I would like The goal of integration policy in Sweden is for everyone to have equal rights, obligations and opportunities. This requires long-term efforts, because integration is a process that takes time. I am pleased that the entry of newcomers into the labour market has gradually improved in recent years. Labour force participation has also increased. This means that the proportion of the population who have a job or are looking for a job is increasing, which is positive. But of course there are many challenges. These include women's entry into the labour market, mental illness and housing shortages. What do we do in this budget to improve the establishment of new arrivals and also integration in a wider perspective? Investment in start-up measures, including reforms, may take a major place in the budget. Those who have come as new arrivals and have or have children should not have to wait until after the parental leave to read Swedish. It is clear that it is possible to tangle yourself on your own, but it is much easier if you are allowed to read Swedish while you are on parental leave. This effort will be increased. We allocate EUR 40 million to this, and it should also cover asylum seekers. The study associations will also play a greater role. Language training for parental leave is an important initiative that we continue with. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight segregation. Segregation is about inequalities that create divisions and a fragmented society, where injustice and hopelessness are at risk of growing. It is very important for young people to see the future and opportunities to get a job. I am glad that youth unemployment continues to fall. However, a group that is particularly tough is young people who are neither studying nor working. They are often invisible in the statistics, and they are often young people in socio-economically weak areas. One should always remember that behind each number is a young person with wishes, will and talent that can come forward. If they do not receive support from society, there is a great risk that hopes and dreams will go out. You just can't see how to get a good future. Speaking of confidence in young people's capacity, I would like to remind you that the Green Party believes that the age of voting should be reduced to 16 years. The government spends money against segregation in several ways. A large part goes to municipalities with specific challenges, the so-called socio-economically disadvantaged areas. Municipalities, regions and civil society can also apply for money through Delmos, the Delegation against segregation. The government's establishment of Delmos in January 2018 was a very important investment. Delmos mission is to help improve the situation in socio-economically vulnerable areas and counter structural causes of segregation. So far, grants have been granted for measures targeting children and young people, security, democratic participation, education and employment. Madam President, I would like I would also like to highlight the issue of discrimination. Unfortunately, people in our country still face discrimination in everyday life. A report prepared by the Stockholm County Administrative Board shows a clear discrimination against Afrosvens on the Swedish labour market. They find it harder to get a job, and once they get it, the conditions are worse than for others. According to Brå, reported crimes are also increasing with a hate crime motive against Jews, Muslims and Africans. Polarisation and prejudice have real consequences in everyday life. Research shows that the person named Mohammad instead of Mattias has more difficulty in obtaining housing, jobs and equal pay. It can't go on like that. Madam President, I would like People with disabilities find it harder to get a job than the rest of the population. Their participation in society is also generally lower. We still have a lot to live up to when it comes to accessibility. We have legislation against discrimination on the ground. The work of the Equality Ombudsman and the Anti-Discrimination Offices is important. However, I would like to see the Ombudsman for Discrimination given an extended mandate in order to pursue the rights of individuals. Unfortunately, this support is not strong enough at present. The Green Party is generally keen to combine efforts at different levels of society with concrete tools for the individual. The government allocates 10 million to the national plan against racism and hate crime. Madam President, I would like Together we create a strong Sweden where everyone's contribution is equally important, whether you were born here or came yesterday. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal.
i-eded400aa1fab400-148	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mrs Leila Ali-Elmi two questions in connection with the speech here. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has said that there is a need to reduce Sweden's reception. Then your party leader Isabella Lövin has said that you absolutely should not reduce any reception at all. What's the deal? Another thing is that Leila Ali-Elmi claims that unemployment among newcomers has decreased in recent years. I referred earlier to the fact that we have a report from the Parliamentary Investigation Service, RUT, which shows that only 6% of new arrivals have a job without support after two years. I would like some comments on that. What are the Environmental Party's thoughts and ideas on how more people can get into self-sufficiency and work faster? No one, Madam President, can be satisfied with those particular figures.
i-eded400aa1fab400-151	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that the OECD notes that Sweden has the most ambitious and effective integration policy. We have halved the time of establishment. When you ruled Sweden it took about ten years for the new arrivals to establish themselves in society. Today it takes about five years. On the question of Stefan Löfven, I assume that when the Prime Minister put it, he expressed himself as party chairman of the Social Democrats. If you are curious about the policy we pursue, I can say that we in the Green Party stand for the right of asylum. We have agreed in January on a tighter migration policy. It is a compromise we have made. But we stand up for the right of asylum.
i-eded400aa1fab400-154	Madam President, I would like The OECD says that Sweden has a very ambitious integration policy. But under no circumstances do they say that it works well in any part, to be honest. Leila Ali-Elmi says that the Prime Minister has only spoken for her party. You can't really do that. It is precisely his party that is represented in the government. Since Leila Ali-Elmi is a government representative here, I would like to ask: Is it the government's view that Swedish reception should be reduced? That is what the previous speaker, Anna Johansson, said. I didn't quite understand that for the Green Party. I would like clarification there. Again, 6% of newcomers are in work without support after two years. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. What does the Green Party want to do about it?
i-eded400aa1fab400-158	Madam President, I would like The OECD notes that Sweden has the most ambitious and effective integration policy. We have halved the time of establishment. There are 300 000 more people going to work. I think we've succeeded. Maybe it doesn't suit you. As far as the question of the Prime Minister is concerned, I have already answered it. The Green Party has a completely different entry point in terms of migration policy, and the Social Democrats have a different entry point. What applies is what is stated in the January agreement.
i-eded400aa1fab400-160	I would remind all Members that we always speak through the President and not directly to each other. That is the order agreed by the group leaders.
i-eded400aa1fab400-161	Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago, I met a young woman here in Parliament. She was like me born and raised in Malmö. We have both been to school in Malmö throughout our school life. However, we have lived a number of kilometres apart and under completely different circumstances. She has lived a life under oppression and control, where her movements, who are associated with and what she wears are controlled and followed up. This is totally unacceptable in a country like Sweden. Whether you have fled here from oppression to start a new life or if you were born and raised here, it is our responsibility to ensure that you can live a life of freedom in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Swedish gender equality is now going in the wrong direction. Let it sink in: in one of the world's most equal countries, we now see that equality in the area by area is going the wrong way. We can see that the number of rape reports is increasing. Do you know that young women's exposure to sexual crime in Sweden has increased by 360 percent since Stefan Löfven became Prime Minister? 360 percent! Only 5 out of 100 rapes lead to a conviction. Nearly four out of ten young women are anxious and choose another route or way home in the evening because they are worried about being subjected to crime. The ultimate freedom is freedom from oppression, but soon thereafter freedom will stand on its own feet. When women work and earn their own income, the possibility of self-determination and the ability to make their own decisions about their own lives increases. We have been assisted by the parliamentary investigation service to look at how women's self-determination is in Sweden, for example when it comes to women's participation in the labour market. RUT calculates that if women in Sweden were to work to the same extent as men, Sweden's bnp would increase by SEK 400 billion in 2019. To cite two examples, it is almost 40% of our entire state budget or seven times the defence budget, for those who think it is important to invest in defence. Those who are farthest from the labour market and who may live in the greatest freedom in Sweden today are women born abroad. We know that in Sweden today only half of the women born outside Europe are working. In the case of women born outside Europe who have a background with a short education, only one third goes to work – two thirds do not. These women lack their own income and the ability to make independent decisions about their own lives. We've let these women down. They are all too often left at home in a needless dependency on benefits. It is not protecting these women's opportunities for self-determination. The so-called feminist government has betrayed these women – the feminist government that focuses on elitist issues of quotas to company boards or hides behind symbolic policies as new equality authorities but forgets all the gender equality problems women experience in their everyday lives. The women of Sweden need someone who stands up for self-determination, for the possibility of their own income and for security. The women of Sweden need a tax reform. We need a premium ceiling for work to always pay off. We need activity requirements for everyone who lives on supply support, because we believe in everyone's ability and ability to contribute. Madam President, I would like Many of the reforms that Sweden needs to increase gender equality are also reforms for increased integration. We need to take a strong stand against the oppression of honour in Sweden. It's about new crimes and more stringent penalties. We need to make demands on sfi for women on parental leave, so that you do not be at home for years and then not have the opportunity to enter the labour market. We also need to develop the quality of SFI and adult education in order to increase knowledge and learning. These are reforms designed in a completely different time, when the aim was to give a second chance to someone who had already had a first chance at education. Today, rather, it is about giving people a first chance at education. We need to reform social orientation. It is a 60-hour course, but many municipalities issue certificates already after 6 hours of attendance because Arbetsförmedlingen approves this. There are also no requirements for examination at the end. In the course of the courses on democracy, human rights, women's rights and sexual and reproductive health, the number of students in the classroom is decreasing – and suddenly a large part of them are ill. How can we put up with this system? We need to start making demands. We must have a clear syllabus in social orientation. We need an examination at the end. This is consistent in area by area. Madam President, I would like Sweden and Sweden's women need a new leadership for Sweden.
i-eded400aa1fab400-180	Madam President, I would like As everyone in here has already seen... or perhaps not seen... Henrik Vinge is not here today. He was supposed to talk about integration, but he got sick this morning. That is why I intend to use some additional minute of the House's time to mention something brief about it. That is why I also apologise in advance for probably exceeding my registered speaking time. It is hardly a secret to anyone in here that the Swedish Democrats are probably the party that has been absolutely the most negative towards the integration policy that has been pursued and to some extent still being pursued, which is that people are welcomed here but then not met with any demands or expectations. There seems to be a perception, at least among certain parties, that it is to be cold and hard if you make demands and expect achievement from new arrivals. I mean it's the opposite – to make demands and to expect those who come here to deliver is to care. It was mentioned earlier that if one succeeds in integrating a foreign born woman, one succeeds in integrating a family. I think that is true, and that is why I am very pleased that my party was able to take part in producing an announcement to the government to introduce a new gender equality policy objective on integration. That is something that would seriously get more women to work, and that is something that we should all support. Turning to what I was actually going to talk about, namely gender equality, I note that today it has been quite exactly one year since the last time we had this debate. Those of you who were there at the time will remember that the big question of breaking up the parties was the Equality Authority. Although we dealt with it quite properly at the time, I decided to dwell on it a little even today. I intended to do this partly because they are still a fairly clear dividing line between the different budget options, partly because they are a good example of how the gender equality debate in Sweden is often conducted. The Swedish Democrats then, as we now want, wanted the agency to be shut down, partly because we see that already well-functioning activities are at risk of being undermined and that important knowledge and competence are at risk of disappearing along the way. One example we have mentioned is the County Administrative Board in Östergötland, which is tasked with preventing honour-related violence and oppression. We already thought then – and we also believe now – that the mission should instead be made permanent. In the debate a year ago, we were told, at least from many red-green parties, that if we want to close the Equality Agency, we might as well close the gender equality agency. Of course, nothing can be more wrong or illogical. It is a good example of how black and white this particular debate often becomes. Either you're for or against, and if you're against, you can't be for. It is by no means constructive or serious to deal with such an important issue for Sweden in this way. It deserves great respect, and that actually involves listening to one's opponents and listening to their suggestions. At least one of these proposals is now also the government's proposal. To return to the Swedish Democrats' criticism of the Gender Equality Agency in substance, I would like to mention what was highlighted this summer, when the agency agreed with the Swedish National Agency for Education's conclusion that honor-related violence and oppression should not be written into the curriculum as there is a risk that groups might be put against each other. It is undeniably true that honour violence and oppression are about groups being set up against each other. The groups against each other are the group of individuals who want to live freely and the group of individuals who do not accept it. For an equality authority, it should be self-evident to support the former group in all contexts and in all possible ways. Although the agency later backed up after criticism and also made some prayer, the reality became such that the authority appointed to work on gender issues did not think that one of the absolute greatest threats to gender equality was worth paying attention to in the curriculum. That is another reason why we have been strengthened in our conviction that the Authority should be closed down. In addition to the Equality Agency, there are actually a lot of good things in the red-green blue budget. You're supposed to be honest about that. We welcome the funding that is now being given to women's and girls' shelters. That's great. We have something similar in our own draft budget, even if we add 50 million more. Here we fully share the understanding that women's shelters need more support in order to carry out their work in many cases irreplaceable. What is also good is that, in fact, there is quite a lot of attention in this budget. It becomes clear when you read it, and it's very good. What concerns me, however, Madam President, is that this attention only comes now. This is not really a new problem. My party has been just one of the parties who has paid attention to the problem and also warned of its spread for quite a number of years. Unlike our prime minister, we saw this coming. As I said, violence of honour is not a new phenomenon. If we had been listened to and the others who drew attention to the problem, rather than dismissing us on various dubious grounds, the problem might not have grown so big. This is perhaps the main reason why I regret the government's ability to solve these problems – not because it does not have high ambitions, not because it does not try to live up to the name of feminist government by very often talking about equality, but because positioning very often becomes more important is politics. Disturbance and marking against others are becoming more important than the rapprochement and support of those who need society on their side. My party, the Swedish Democrats, prioritises differently. We see it as more important to stand in the corner of the vulnerable and therefore also on the right side of history. Thank you for the floor and Merry Christmas! ( THIRD VICE TALMANN: I did not note any request from the honourable Member. )
i-eded400aa1fab400-195	Madam President, I would like After all, we have an area of expenditure debate here today, so I am going to talk about how we differ from the majority in the various areas of the budget. We in Sweden have come a long way in the area of gender equality, but there is still a great deal to be done in the debate. For example, violence in close relationships is a major problem in Sweden. We can never accept that almost 7% of the population has been subjected to crime in a close relationship. Similarly, honor-related violence and oppression is a growing problem. Research shows that over 100 000 young people feel that they cannot live in freedom and that they will not be allowed to choose who they want to live or marry. This is a huge social problem that involves oppression that is going on every day around Sweden. The Swedish Democrats say that we have not seen anything or done anything about the honour-related violence. Nevertheless, I would like to say that during the alliance years we produced a national action plan. We also started work on a great deal in the area of legislation to tighten up the legislation and to make it clear that violence of honour and repression is not acceptable. We Christian Democrats have pointed out in our alternative budget that it is now time to produce legislation that gives us a special crime classification for honour violence. We also want to see and have spent SEK 10 million on starting up a so-called forced marriage unit according to the British model in the police, all to save young girls from being brought out of the country for forced marriage or child marriage. We have also proposed that the national team of experts on honour violence at the County Administrative Board in Östergötland should be strengthened and made permanent, which is unfortunately not fully clear in the January parties' draft budget. It says that you should evaluate the unit, and it is unclear what happens next. The threat to the operation came when the government wanted to create the Gender Equality Agency and take funds from the competence team during the last term of office. We are very concerned about the future of the business, and in addition to the permanent competence team we provide 32 million SEK so that we can take over the business from the Equality Agency. We still believe that a different path should have been taken than the creation of a new authority. Statskontoret proposed an alternative, so we have instead spent 13 million in our budget to establish a delegation for gender equality that can coordinate gender equality work nationally. Instead of doing what has now been done – closing down the prostitution unit at the Stockholm County Administrative Board, taking money from the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala, NCK, and proposing to take more money from the competence team in Östergötland – we want these businesses to have better resources. It would be interesting to hear how the January parties discuss NCK in Uppsala and the operations in Östergötland, and also why they have reduced their basic funding by SEK 10 million. I visited the CNK the other week, and they are very worried that this basic grant has not been carried back. We also contribute SEK 8 million to the prostitution unit in Stockholm to restart operations. We want to see concrete activities that really reach vulnerable women rather than an authority. Madam President, I would like The pay gap between women and men has continuously decreased in the 21st century, which is gratifying even though we still cannot be satisfied. The wage differentials that still exist are largely due to differences between women and men in terms of the profession in which you work, age and education. The legislation on salary mapping has been in place since 1994 and has been amended on several occasions, most recently in 2017. Under the alliance government, the law was amended to reduce the administrative burden for small businesses, but the red-green government then changed back to previous requirements. During spring 2019, the Swedish National Audit Office presented a review of the Swedish Discrimination Act's demands for salary mapping and proposals for changes in the regulatory framework. The government has now submitted a letter on the matter, so we will return in the House to that question later. Finally, Madam President, the report highlights the views of the January parties on various discrimination crimes. It is good that, as the government intends to combat attacks on LGBT people, as well as anti-Semitism and Islamophobia and afrophobic crimes. However, the majority of the committee ignores what Mr Brå has highlighted in recent times, namely a large increase in even Christianophobic crimes. Why are the January parties rejecting this group? Here we have a chance to broaden the work of the action plan against racism and similar forms of hostility and hate crime, but unfortunately there is silence. With this, Madam President, I would like to refer to the specific opinion of the Christian Democrats in the report.
i-eded400aa1fab400-209	Madam President, I would like The objective of gender equality policy, as has been said here from the pulpit, is that women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives. If we are to implement this, it naturally places high demands on the policies that we are pursuing. Education and attitudes alone are not enough. Politics must also shape a society that makes it possible for women and men to live on an equal footing. To achieve this, we have a number of sub-objectives. We have the goal of an even distribution of power and influence. Women and men must have the same right and opportunity to be active citizens of society. We have the objective of economic equality. Women and men must have the same opportunities and conditions in terms of paid work that give economic autonomy. It is also, of course, about life after working life, when you become a pensioner. Training must be equal. The possibility and conditions of education for boys and girls and for women and men shall be equal. A balanced distribution of unpaid home and care work is absolutely necessary if we are to achieve the objectives of gender equality. The uneven distribution is one of the reasons why women are still lagging behind in economic development. Equal health is needed. Women and men and girls and boys must have the same conditions for good health and be offered care on equal terms. Men's violence against women must stop. The same right to physical integrity for women and men is absolutely crucial. It is something that is not done by itself but is the result of politics. We will also ensure that gender equality work shapes our future. That gender equality permeates the implementation of Agenda 2030 is an important part for us Social Democrats and the government that we represent together with the Green Party. Gender equality policy is broad and covers many areas of expenditure. The objectives are comprehensive and long-term. Gender mainstreaming is the government's main strategy, combined with specific measures, to achieve gender equality policy objectives and aims to promote gender equality by making equal opportunities visible. Gender mainstreaming means that the gender equality performance report is integrated into other expenditure areas in the budget bill, for example through gender-disaggregated statistics and analyses in relation to gender equality policy objectives. In Annex 3 of the budget proposal on economic equality between women and men, the development of economic equality is unclear. This is an extremely important element for us to be able to formulate a policy that brings us towards a more equal society. Sweden has a lot to do in this area. In an international comparison, however, we have come a long way. It is interesting to compare the challenges we have now and see that the policy we have pursued has led us in Sweden a long way when it comes to gender equality. Mr Malmqvist of the Moderates, Madam President, spoke a little disdainfully of our political ambitions as symbolic politics. I would probably, if I were a representative of the right, be a little careful to use that kind of language. This year we celebrate 100 years of democracy here in the Swedish parliament, and it was not Josefin Malmqvist's party colleagues who pushed democracy through. Democracy and universal and equal suffrage are, after all, the first step in the work of an equal society. Josefin Malmqvist's party colleagues opposed this kind of symbolic policy 100 years ago. It is clearly still against symbolism. In order for us to move forward on gender equality, political democracy was not enough. We also needed to reshape society's economic outlook and taxation. We removed co-taxation, expanded welfare and developed childcare facilities and preschools that made it possible for us to move towards gender equality. These reforms were also considered by Josefin Malmqvist's party comrades to be symbolic politics. When Mr Malmqvist, Madam President, uses this kind of rhetoric, there is reason to recall the not flattering history of Moderates in terms of gender equality. As I said, a lot of work is done, but a lot remains to be done. I had the privilege of meeting a delegation from the Committee on Gender Equality from the Albanian Parliament the other week. It was striking when we discussed with our Albanian colleagues that very many of the issues were still the same. Although we have, of course, gone further in terms of both democracy and gender equality, they highlighted, as their concerns, economic inequality, inequality in the distribution of power and domestic violence. Then, as Swedish representatives, we were able to note that today, after 100 years, we are still working with the same concerns. We have come a long way, but there is still much to be done in relation to inappropriate pay differentials and men's violence against women, including honour violence and the problem it poses for women and girls in Sweden. With this, I would like to support the proposal in the report.
i-eded400aa1fab400-226	Madam President, I would like It is somewhat telling that Patrik Björck stands here and beats his chest when it comes to what his party did 100 years ago. I am not late to criticise my own party and our lack of equality work 100 years ago. But what we are discussing here and now is what policy we are pursuing for Sweden today. I would therefore like to ask Patrik Björck a question. You mention the gender equality policy objective of economic equality. At the same time, your party chooses to only lower the tax for the most well-off, preferably wealthy men, and not women with lower incomes, in contrast to how we in the Moderates choose to do in our budget. You also mention pensions, deferred pay, and there's the same thing. Of the 27 billion pensioners have received tax reductions over the last ten years, 21 have come about thanks to Moderate work. Therefore, I would like to ask: why do you not choose to reduce the tax rate for those women who are primarily women who have had low incomes and who have the lowest pensions? You choose to just lower the tax on those with the highest pensions.
i-eded400aa1fab400-228	I would remind you that we are all speaking through the President.
i-eded400aa1fab400-229	Madam President, I would like I think we should all try to do that. What is at issue here is the rather strange situation that Josefin Malmqvist is trying to attack me from the left, so to speak. I can see that it may be a little tempting. When it comes to total politics, the Moderates are the best in opposition. Then you could possibly end up in this kind of debate. We Social Democrats implement our policies when we are in government. In this context, as has been said in the speaker's chair, we have a constellation in which we have come up with a number of different compromises in order to also be able to implement large parts of Social Democratic policy. We are improving the situation of pensioners, including in this budget. What I referred to in my speech was that if one is to eradicate, as it were, the economic difference over life between women and men, work is the fundamental point. In Sweden, we have the highest employment rate in the world for women. Even women born abroad have a higher labour force participation in Sweden than women have in Europe. This policy, the classical social democratic line of work, is the only way to ensure that, in the long term, it becomes an equal society, both in terms of working life and when you retire. It is not possible to make contributions to people who are at home or to other things that have been done during bourgeois times. There is a need to reward the work line and ensure that labour force participation is increased and thus reduce social disparities between women and men.
i-eded400aa1fab400-235	Madam President, I would like I note that Patrik Björck continues to beat his chest and tell him how good everything is. I do not think that women in Sweden today recognize themselves in this picture. It is about women who do not have a job to go to and who lack their own income and the possibility of self-determination. I also note that Patrik Björck still has not answered the question: Why do you choose to lower taxes for those with the highest pensions, wealthy men, and not for women with lower incomes and lower pensions?
i-eded400aa1fab400-237	Madam President, I would like The answer is the same. If we are to be able to implement a gender equality policy worthy of the name, it is this kind of traditional initiative, which we Social Democrats have always stood for, which applies. We're expanding welfare. We ensure that there is a well-functioning childcare and preschool. We make sure that women get to work. And we're raising labour force participation. There is no other way to achieve equality. It is classical Social Democratic policy, which for 100 years has been opposed by Josefin Malmqvist's party. That was true 100 years ago. It's just as true today. That is why I noted that Josefin Malmqvist today called our policy of symbolism, just as her party colleagues have been doing for 100 years, Madam President. So we stand for the same progressive equality policy. And the Moderates stand for the same conservative policies that counteract all equality – the same as 100 years ago.
i-eded400aa1fab400-240	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for our reservation to be approved. I forgot to do it earlier when I was up and running. My question to the Social Democrats and Patrik Björck concerns the right to love who you want. It was a slogan that the Social Democrats put out on Facebook in connection with pride. I think most people agree that that right should exist. That is why I was surprised to read a few weeks ago about a Social Democratic local politician in Hudiksvall who was forced out of her post because she fell in love with a Swedish democrat. My question is simply: can you in the Social Democrats love who you want? Does it also include Swedish democrats?
i-eded400aa1fab400-244	Madam President, I would like In Sweden of the Social Democrats, you must absolutely love who you want. But in politics and the area in which Ebba Hermansson and I find ourselves, it is a matter of trust. I cannot over test the trust that is given to different individuals in different situations. I do not intend to have any comments on that at all. But of course you can love whoever you want. I find it a little provocative that a Swedish democrat raises this issue. When you talk about gender equality, the discussion about LGBTQ people's rights and opportunities to live a whole life in Sweden is not exactly a policy area where the Swedish Democrats have made some big advances or have been driving. The right to love who you want should be a matter of course in Sweden. It is also something that we Social Democrats are striving for. There are still things to do when it comes to people being discriminated against because of their sexual orientation. There's still a piece left to go. But we have come a long way in Sweden. We Social Democrats stand for that right, for real. We are not engaged in symbolic politics, as Mrs Hermansson does when she raises this case. I think it's a little provocative.
i-eded400aa1fab400-248	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer. I am aware that the Social Democrats do not think our equality policy is good, and that is all right with me. That is how it works in a democracy. But that was not an answer to my question. My question is about why a Social Democratic politician is being forced away from her position because she has fallen in love with a Swedish democrat. The answer, as I understand it, is that you can love whoever you want, but if you are a politician, it is about trust. Then my follow-up question to Patrik Björck is: Can't one have confidence in a Social Democratic politician just because she's fallen in love with a Swedish Democrat? Would you have forced a politician out of the Social Democrats if she had fallen in love with, for example, an environmental party or a left-wing party?
i-eded400aa1fab400-252	Madam President, I would like The same question gets the same answer. I cannot judge how this particular situation or the context in which it has arisen has been dealt with. As a social democrat, I stand for the equal value of all people. Anyone should definitely have the right to love anyone. That is absolutely self-evident. In this particular case, I have no comments. I cannot comment on that, because I have no knowledge of what is behind the situation described by Ebba Hermansson. If you really, really think it's important that anyone should love anyone, I think you should look at the current and previous party program of the Swedish Democrats. One should look at how they have acted in different constellations in this House and in municipalities where they have political representatives. Then you can see that the Swedish Democrats are no one to hold in hand if you fight for the equal rights and value of all people.
i-eded400aa1fab400-256	Madam President, I would like What is the very first thing you think about when you hear the word equality? The first thing that comes up in my head is equal value or equal right. It is just as right to realize one's dreams of life and just as right to have the same conditions for it. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a country that has been high on the ranking list of equal countries in the world. We have also reached first place in certain periods of time. But can Sweden call itself equal in 2019? Despite all the talk about gender equality, women in Sweden still do not have the same opportunities as men in everyday life. Too little has been done to ensure the quality of society's service so that it comes to women and men equally. Unfortunately, there are too many examples of this. For example, everyone thinks that women should be paid all day, just like men. For most, it is obvious that women should be entitled to the same financial security and independence as men. Unfortunately, what appears to be self-evident is not a matter of course in reality. This still differentiates as much as 11% between men's and women's wages. This means that women work for free almost a whole hour, every working day, all year round. Although we take into account a number of factors, such as education level, industry and occupation, there is still an inexplicable pay gap of 4%. And if we look at the entire income of life, there are millions of dollars on average between men and women. Hear and marvel — millions! It can't be considered equality, or does anyone think otherwise? We need to do better than this. After all, it is almost 2020. Madam President, I would like This year we have celebrated 100 years of universal and equal suffrage in Parliament. Much has happened over these 100 years, and much has gone in the right direction in our country. But there are also areas that require our attention here and now. In 2018, 7,160 people were suspected of assaulting a woman with whom they had or had previously had a close relationship. According to statistics from the Swedish Crime Prevention Council, 96 per cent of suspected persons were men. In the same year, 26 cases of fatal violence were found where victims and perpetrators had a relationship at the time of the crime or earlier. They represent almost a quarter of all cases of fatal violence during the year, according to the same statistics. Research also shows that violence in close relationships is still a major social problem with a large number of darknesses. It occurs in all types of relationships and in all social classes. Women are the majority of the vulnerable, especially in terms of the most severe violence, but also men are affected. It is therefore important that there is competence to provide support to all types of persons who have been subjected to violence by a close relative. It is also important to increase the understanding and knowledge of those who are exposed to physical and psychological violence in a close relationship. In order to put an end to violence, it is also important that there is active prevention. We cannot and must not accept that people should have to live in fear of being physically or mentally abused. Madam President, I would like It is of the utmost importance that we review the opportunities for people – both men and women – who have been victims of violence in close relationships to receive support from society through increased access to women's and men's shelters, shelters and other similar activities. The non-profit women's and girls' shelters are an important resource in the fight against violence, and they need long-term, purer and more stable funding to carry out their mission. Today, I am proud that the Center Party has fought for these activities to receive an additional 100 million per year over the next few years. Madam President, I would like Around 100,000 young people, preferably girls, are estimated to live under honorary oppression in Sweden in 2019. Bring in the number 100,000! So this is just an estimate. No one can answer the question of how widespread honour-related violence and oppression is, not even the National Board of Health and Welfare, which was commissioned by the government to conduct an investigation and has done so for two years. 中 Honorary repression is one of the most important gender equality issues, said the responsible minister Åsa Lindhagen in an interview with Svenska Dagbladet on 7 March 2019. At the time, the Government felt that it had taken too long for the issue of honor to come through and wanted to add an extra change. I humbly wonder: Where is this change? Madam President, I would like In the same article it was possible to read the following: a 20-year-old man attacked them when police officers arrived at the apartment at the Old West in Malmö last Friday. He was armed with the knife he was suspected of stabbing his sister with. She was taken to a hospital with serious injuries. The police suspect that the crime is related to honor. ..................................................... In Malmö, the problem seems to be particularly widespread. In the autumn of 2018, a report showed that one in five ninth graders in Malmö lived under some kind of honorary oppression. That's one in five too many. Madam President, I would like Honorable crime today is not a legal term. On the other hand, honorary motives can be taken into account as an aggravating circumstance. I am therefore particularly proud that the Centre Party, together with the Liberals and the Government in the January agreement, has ensured that honour crimes are included as a separate crime in the Criminal Code and that a special penalty for crimes with honorary motives should also be introduced. In addition, the January agreement stipulates that the rules on the expulsion of non-Swedish citizens convicted of honour-related crimes should be tightened. The question of expulsion shall always be examined in the case of such offences. Let me be even clearer! All you moral policemen, self-appointed prophets and defenders of medieval customs and norms have no place in mine and the Sweden of the Center Party. Point. Madam President, I would like A world that accepts that men and women are given different roles and do not have the same rights and opportunities is nothing and will never be an option, at least not for us c enterpartists. Unfortunately, however, it is just such a development that can be seen both in our neighbourhood and around the world. A large number of countries have introduced new laws limiting the possibility of holding meetings and running organisations. The ability of women's organisations to receive money from international donors is being reduced. Women's rights defenders are hated, threatened and restricted, and this also happens in Europe and Sweden. Looking at the comments under Annie Lööf and other strong female debaters and leaders' Twitter accounts, you can see how hatred and threat to women have grown in recent years. In Poland and Hungary, hostile developments have taken a few more steps. Regim-critical organisations are harassed, lost their financial contributions and forced into lengthy legal proceedings to defend their business. In Hungary, Prime Viktor Orbán talks about the fact that the Hungarian nation only survives biologically, if Hungarian women give birth to more children, and he has launched a support programme to get them to do just that. And in Norway there are far-reaching discussions about restricting the right to abortion. With us, the Swedish Democrats have long had similar plans but were recently forced to give it up, probably temporarily, for reasons of voting tactics. But do not despair! There is still time to reverse developments even if the clock is ticking. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude my speech with a quote from Nelson Mandela. He said, "It always seems impossible until it's done." .....................................................
i-eded400aa1fab400-277	Madam President, I would like My party, the Liberals, was born out of the struggle for equality and for the equal rights of men and women. A year like this can go back 100 years, as we have already done here in the debate. At that time, the first decision was made for women and men to have universal and equal voting rights. Then the Liberals were one of the engines. We have been an engine in all the reforms that have developed Sweden into one of the world's most equal countries. It concerns the taxation of individuals, parental insurance and crimes against women's peace. Bengt Westerberg began to draw attention to this in the 90's. I would like to remind you that it was about the issues of honour and the view of immigrant women's opportunity to build a life in Sweden. My party leader, Nyamko Sabuni, raised these issues when no one else in this House wanted to talk about them – not even everyone in our own party. She pointed out the necessary change in parental insurance that we eventually made in broad agreement. So there have been liberal fanbearers on these issues too. I think we should be proud of what we have achieved together. But just as humble and critical must be over what we have not yet achieved. The pride must give us the strength to keep working and not give up. We have a country where there is still a difference of 3 million in a working life between what a woman and a man earns. We have a country where tens of thousands of women are killed or beaten in their close relationships. Désirée Pethrus said that 100,000 women and girls live in oppression of honour. Of course we can't be happy. Of course we have to keep going. We have a country where a large proportion of the boys don't learn to read so they can master the language. Therefore, they do not get any education, any job, any family or any opportunity to participate in building our society. There's still a lot of work to be done. I would like to mention a point where we do not agree. I want to continue to discuss the Equality Agency. They were another step in bringing Sweden into a truly equal society. It is about releasing the projectification of gender equality work and recognising it as a policy area, subject area, research area and area of knowledge that should also be in a structure. There are still some parties in the Swedish Parliament who want to close the Equality Agency. The Authority was set up on the basis of a proposal from an investigation set up by the Alliance Government. In the alliance government where I was Minister of Equal Opportunities, we said that the situation seemed unreasonable. I felt it as a minister of gender equality. Here I and my employees will inspire and press on the other departments, the authorities and the municipalities, but there is always something else that is more important. Gender equality perhaps deserves, we thought then in the alliance government, an authority and a structure that helps and supports everyone else who will work with gender equality. That is how we think about all other areas. The gender equality inquiry, as it came to be called, then submitted its proposal to Stefan Lövven's first government. A proposal for a gender equality agency emerged from it. I am very happy that we managed to save it during this year, because it is just in its infancy and can help to continue to bring Sweden forward in the work on gender equality. At the Gender Equality Agency, approximately 60 employees currently work with expertise from all social fields. It's police, prosecutors, military, sociologists, public health scientists and personnel scientists. They are in the middle of the process of expanding this work. There has been a little bump, but now the process continues. Since Sweden's gender equality policy grew in earnest in the early 1970s, the constant Achilles heel has been a lack of perseverance. Temporary projects and initiatives have replaced each other. We hope to remedy that shortcoming. In this work, in that construction, we have been involved in ensuring – and it is important to have it pointed out from the pulpit – that the competence centre in Östergötland in respect of honour-related violence and repression has been permanentized and has received more resources. If there is no doubt about this, and it is important that no doubt is spread. Gender equality is very much about commitment, but it must also be about knowledge, research, methods, follow-up and goals. We have, as has been mentioned from the speaker's seat, a number of gender equality policy objectives. We from the Liberals have pushed through the fact that there is now another goal being worked out. Many, Madam President, have testified from the speaker's chair that perhaps the greatest inequality today is in the minds of new arrivals, immigrants. That is why we shall formulate a specific objective aimed at gender equality and integration. You're doing it in the department. It will be another goal for our gender equality authority to follow up. One should tell the government and thus tell us how it goes, what we can do differently and whether the money, the investments and the policies are being used properly. A gender equality authority does not stand in the way of continued gender equality work. It's just nonsense. It is a prerequisite for the continued development of gender equality. Finally, I would like to endorse the proposal in the committee's report and therefore also the continuation of the work of the Equality Agency – not because we are satisfied but because we are proud and convinced that we can go much further.
i-eded400aa1fab400-291	Madam President, I would like Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries, but are we equal? No, we're not. Women are more sick than men. Women make less money. Foreign born women do not have the opportunities they should have in the labour market. Women take greater responsibility for unpaid home and care work. Women are subjected to violence. Madam President, I would like Men's violence against women is one of our most important gender equality, security and freedom issues. Since the turn of the millennium, about 300 women have been murdered by their husband, ex-husband, or boyfriend. About one in four women in Sweden will be subjected to violence at some point in her life by a loved one. Girls and women are subjected daily to sexual abuse in the workplace, in the public room or at home. More than 100 000 young people in Sweden suffer from honour-related violence and oppression, ranging from restrictions on dress and career choices to exposure to genital mutilation, forced marriage and highly honour killings. The women where violence has gone so far as to have been murdered, Madam President, are forever lost. They'll never come back. There, no mistakes in the world can be undone. They are and remain gone. Many of these women left children behind, children who never again see their mother, hear her voice, or hold her hand, children who would give anything to one last time say and hear her answer, children who were not seldom in an adjacent room when their mother was murdered or saw her murdered right in front of their eyes. The heart breaks when you think of these children and of the women who were not allowed to live. These women and children are obliging. We have a responsibility to act. Not least, we politicians have a responsibility to act to put an end to violence, to put an end to men's violence against women, to violence in close relations, to violence against children and to honour-related violence and repression. Madam President, I would like We also have a responsibility to act to put an end to racism and discrimination. We have racism in our country, Madam President, and I hate it. I hate how I meet Abdulla this autumn – he came to Sweden from Syria six years ago – and he tells me how he has just walked the city and a wild alien passerby called him a parasite. It's an everyday life for Abdulla. He tells us how he does not dare to take the subway into the city here in Stockholm on Saturday nights because he is afraid of being subjected to hatred and violence. He says that he is not the only one who does not dare to go to Stockholm City on Saturday nights. He calls Stockholm City a no go zone. Yes, it's true. I feel anger and sorrow when I hear about women with Muslim dress that testifies to how they suffer from racism in everyday life, how it affects them in public places, in the shops and in public transport and how they are subjected to insults, threats and hate crimes. I feel anger and sorrow when I hear about Jews in Sweden who because of anti-Semitism that exists in our society hide their Jewish identity and avoid places and areas where they feel particularly vulnerable. No human would have to feel insecure on our streets in Sweden in 2019. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a fantastic country. But I think there are many of us who have recently felt on the skin how important values are being challenged. The Security Service describes xenophobic and radical nationalist forces, mainly on the Internet. These forces spread threats and hatreds against women, LGBT people, Africans, Jews, Muslims, Roma and Sami. We cannot stand by and watch this happen. We politicians have a responsibility to act, to say stop and to do something about the problems. The government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, has presented a budget in which we take strong action against men's violence against women and against honour-related violence and repression. We are investing SEK 445 million in combating violence. SEK 100 million goes to women's and girls' shelters. It also provides long-term funding through two-year grants, and it is an important step forward in strengthening their conditions. In addition, SEK 102 million goes to the work against honour-related violence and oppression. It is about everyone's right to decide for themselves over their lives and that human rights apply to everyone. There are no exceptions. We are doubling the resources for the work of LGBT people's equal rights and opportunities. The government is planning to develop an action plan to gather strength on these issues. We are doubling our efforts on the national plan against racism and hate crime so that we can make more efforts to combat racism. It is about resources for more knowledge and research, preventive work online, an active judiciary and support for civil society. We spend 500 million on government subsidies to work towards segregation by 2020. This is an important initiative for a Sweden that should stick together. We are introducing a special state grant of SEK 80 million to the municipalities that have taken a large responsibility for the reception of refugees. We improve and extend social orientation to 100 hours. Furthermore, we strengthen efforts for parental leave in order to improve integration, and this initiative is important not least from the perspective of gender equality. We must do more to strengthen opportunities for women born abroad in society. Madam President, I would like We live in times when some cold winds blow. But I know that there are many of us in this country who believe in a society built on security, freedom and community between people, a society where we see ourselves in each other, where we look after each other, where we stand up for human rights and the equal value of all people. Madam President, I would like It is naive to believe that we can build a good society without humanity. I can't. No, we have to keep our heads cold and our hearts warm. Madam President, I would like Strong societies we build together.
i-eded400aa1fab400-308	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Gender Equality for a committed speech. I have a few questions because it is about the budget, and there are some areas where we do not agree on the future. One of these is the Equality Agency. We have explained, of course, that we found it sad that we immediately began to flinch the edges of several different activities in order to establish this authority. This applies, among other things, to the County Administrative Board Östergötland competence centre against honour violence, which carries out a work that I think we agree on should be prioritised. As far as the evaluation of these activities is concerned, what exactly does the Minister think needs to be evaluated? We are concerned that, after this evaluation, it will be said that it does not want to retain this, but that it will transfer its activities to the Equality Agency. After visiting the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala, I wonder why the basic grant has been reduced by 10 million. When does the Minister intend to return this money to the basic appropriation? Now you can apply for different project money, but I understand that it was precisely projects that the government wanted to get away from. It was also sad that the prostitution unit in Stockholm, which had a well-built job, was closed down. Finally, I have a question of discrimination. As I mentioned in my speech, it is important to combat crimes against LGBT people and crimes in the name of honour. But I haven't heard the Minister talk about christhophobic hate crimes. Why isn't there anything in that area?
i-eded400aa1fab400-315	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Pethrus for the questions. The national competence team shall be permanent. We have made that clear, and Maria Arnholm also referred to it earlier. However, it is perfectly reasonable to look at activities that have existed for a few years. It is about seeing what conclusions and lessons we can draw from the important work of the National Skills Team. That's taking responsibility for the business. We have contributed resources to the National Centre for Women's Peace in Uppsala in our amending budget. We will have reason to come back to that in the future. I am relatively new to government policy and have previously worked at municipal level. For me, it was surprising and a little startling to get into rich politics and understand that there has not been a governance of gender equality policy. The Swedish National Audit Office has criticised the fact that it has not been a sufficiently effective implementation of gender equality policy. The six gender equality policy objectives are not well followed up or reported to the government. I cannot support this, but it must be orderly. If we set targets for gender equality policy, we must have a follow-up to them and a coordination of gender equality policies. It is also a question of taking responsibility for taxpayers' money. It is good that the issue of discrimination, including christophobia, is raised. We have recently tightened up the Discrimination Act. We have also strengthened the police's work against hate crimes and in recent years contributed funds to the Discrimination Ombudsman to strengthen the work against discrimination.
i-eded400aa1fab400-321	Madam President, I would like I thank Åsa Lindhagen for her reply. It is a good thing that the Minister thinks that the issue of christhophobic hate crime is worth raising. It was a big discussion at the same time as a lot of people came to Sweden, and at asylum homes there were big problems with clashes and with attacks on Christian asylum seekers. I therefore hope that the Minister will raise this point. As far as evaluating the competence team is concerned, our concern is that the government wanted to close this operation last term of office. That is why we are still looking with little concern at the situation of the post-evaluation placement. Even if you provide NCK with funds in the spring change budget, the basic allocation is not clear in this budget, and it is sad that there will be projects.
i-eded400aa1fab400-325	Madam President, I would like The fight against violence is a priority of the government and will continue to be so. We need a gender equality agency that is partly working on these issues and on all the gender equality policy objectives. We need the National Centre for Women's Peace. You do an extremely important job, and I have been there several times. We need the National Skills Team, which provides support to professionals. Right now we are also working to build four regional resource centres around Sweden in the fight against, for example, honor-related violence and oppression. The fight against violence will continue to be a priority. It is good that we are many parties that raise these issues, and I would like to thank the honourable Member. Let me be clear that the government will continue to give priority to these issues throughout its term of office. This is one of the most important gender equality issues we have to work with in Sweden today.
i-eded400aa1fab400-327	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister – not least for choosing to highlight the establishment of women born abroad in the labour market! I really believe that this is one of the biggest gender equality problems we have to address right now. At the same time, I am concerned about the policy that the government chooses to pursue in this area, because in my world you sift mosquitoes and swallow camels. We received a new RUT report the other day which shows that only 3 per cent of the women who leave the two-year establishment programme at Arbetsförmedlingen are moving on to unsubsidised work. After two years, therefore, only 3% move on to unsubsidised work, and we know that, unfortunately, the proportion of women who even participate in the establishment programme is lower than that of men. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister: when the Minister says that we need to do more to get foreign-born women to work, what is the government and the Minister looking forward to doing?
i-eded400aa1fab400-330	Madam President, I would like Thank you for raising these important issues, Josefin Malmqvist! I think an important part is that we have not had enough focus on women born abroad. We need to have a special perspective in which we highlight the situation of these women. When it comes to Arbetsförmedlingen, for example, we can see that women have not had the same opportunities as men to get contributions, considering important gender issues to raise. The Government made a decision this year that the Swedish Public Employment Service would allocate SEK 300 million to not least making efforts for foreign-born women. Of course they should have the same opportunities in the labour market as men, and we need to do more. I also think that this is clearly highlighted by the honourable Member. We also have efforts to enable women to take parental leave and at the same time develop the Swedish language, which is an extremely important issue from a gender perspective. We know that women are on parental leave to a much greater extent and that they may be on parental leave for several years. Then we do not want language development to stop, but these women will have good opportunities to both build networks and develop the Swedish language. These are also extremely important elements. We are also developing social orientation in the future, both in terms of the number of hours and in terms of quality. I think it is extremely important that we have a great focus on human rights and on gender equality when it comes to giving people who come to Sweden as good a welcome as possible. These are some elements that I would like to highlight.
i-eded400aa1fab400-335	Madam President, I would like After all, it is still the case that mosquitoes are sifted and camels are swallowed; we are talking about a few million investments here and there, but the great reforms are shining with their absence. The Minister mentions that there is now an offer of SFI for parental leave. Like the Minister, I have been a municipal politician in the past, and there are many municipalities in the country that have been offering this for years. However, it is not the offer that is the main problem, but we need to ensure that women have an incentive to choose to participate in the SFI for parental leave. That is why we want to make demands on this. The Minister mentions that the Arbetsförmedlingen received additional resources to work with this group, but resources are obviously not the problem. The Arbetsförmedlingen has SEK 900 million in its budget this year. It is almost 1 billion that has not been spent this year. That's not the problem. When it comes to social orientation, we must start making demands on participation and on knowledge. I still don't hear that.
i-eded400aa1fab400-339	Madam President, I would like I do not share that analysis at all, but I believe that this is a perspective that must be taken into account in all activities – not least in the work of the Public Employment Service, for example. It is, of course, a clear signal from the government that we are saying that SEK 300 million should be allocated to actions for women born abroad, because we see that not enough has been done in this area. When it comes to parental leave, we see that it is about offering opportunities. There have not been enough opportunities to combine parental leave with learning the Swedish language. I believe very much that we need to strengthen the opportunities for women born abroad to take part in this very thing, so I think it is an extremely important contribution. Job and labour market policies are at the heart of this, but it is also about people being able to develop during their parental leave. We see that there is a great deal to be done, not least with regard to women. We can therefore be united in our ambitions, although I do not share the analysis of government policy.
i-eded400aa1fab400-342	Madam President, I would like Today's debate on the Social Security Committee's report SfU2 Economic security in old age concerns a very important area. It is about what the economy looks like for the elderly or for those who have passed retirement age but do not have their own pension to live on. Category 11, which we are now debating, includes 36 1⁄2 billion. So public pensions are not included, because they are in a separate pension scheme. These include guarantee pensions, housing allowances, support for the elderly, etc. for those with low incomes. We are becoming more and more older in Sweden – and it is going very quickly. The number of people aged over 80 is estimated to increase by nearly 50 percent in ten years. Thus, by 2030, there will be over 800 000 people over the age of 80. This will be a major challenge, and it will place tremendous demands on the care and housing of municipalities in particular, as well as on health care and state costs for municipalities and regions. An increasingly clear picture of reality is emerging and, unfortunately, it shows widespread insecurity among older people about the major shortcomings in welfare. The result is older ones who are worried about how to cope with their final years of life. This reality means that we must first and foremost ensure that the municipalities receive major reinforcements, that is, general state subsidies, which are to go to welfare. Unfortunately, the government does not, but it invests in those with the highest income. You invest in free years, family weeks and other things that Sweden might not actually be able to afford. When the resources of society are insufficient, the right priorities must be set. We Moderates can never give priority to those who need the support of society most – those who are ill, and the very oldest who are in great need of support and help, especially during their last years of life. Madam President, I would like We Moderates say we want to enforce the social contract. What does that mean? Well, we're gonna do the right thing for our tax money. We shall safeguard our welfare, safeguard our security and strengthen our core business. We Moderates contribute SEK 14 billion to municipalities and county councils in our budget exercise for 2020. It is a massive increase in welfare to cover needs and counter cuts. Today we see that many municipalities are on their knees. We also have a policy to increase Sweden's growth and strengthen the work line. That is the only way we can get good finances, so that we have something to distribute. It will be absolutely crucial when the economy turns downwards and in order to meet the demographic challenge we face. We will make sure that everyone who works and everyone who has worked will have more money left in their wallet. It must always pay more to work. Not least, we are lowering taxes on all pensioners. Everyone should get a little more in their wallets, not just those with higher pensions, as with the government budget. In fact, the moderate budget would give twice as many pensioners and almost three times as many women reduced taxes compared to the government budget. There are big differences. In the Pensions Group, where six parties are involved, we fully agree that basic protection should be improved and raised within the old-age pension. That's good. It is therefore a question of raising the guarantee pension and raising the housing allowance for those with the lowest pensions, which is usually women. We have also agreed to raise retirement ages. We are doing this to strengthen the pension system but also to strengthen pensions for individuals when they retire. The more you work, the higher your pension. Sweden has a stable pension system, and most people have a pension that they can live on. That is because most people have occupational pensions; we must remember that. It is the occupational pension that usually gives a really good refill, and we should be happy about that. Occupational pension has usually come to the fore in the negotiations between the social partners. We also have something called the premium pension system, a small but very important part for a good pension, where you decide how 21⁄2 percent of the pension contribution should be invested. Here growth has been historically good and many times higher in the PPM system than in the rest of the pension. We really need to be careful about this. In our special opinion, we Moderates say that we want to remove the exemption for refugees and other people in need of protection who today automatically receive a Swedish guarantee pension despite the fact that they may have been in Sweden for a very short time. We want the same qualification rules to apply to everyone. In this context, it is important to point out that we must keep the balance so that it is always worthwhile to work and to have worked. Reducing taxes on all pensioners is the moderates' way of ensuring that everyone gets more in their wallets, especially those with low pensions. Madam President, I would like We politicians must ensure that the core tasks of the state really work. An important part is that our elderly have good protection when they need it, that the municipalities can deliver welfare to those in need and that healthcare provides care on time. This can be summed up as follows: Citizens should feel that they receive currency for their tax money, and the tax should be used properly.
i-eded400aa1fab400-357	Madam President, I would like One of the priority political issues of the Swedish democrats concerns, of course, the elderly, our elderly, who have had to stand back for a long time and have experienced constant deterioration in their daily lives. It is high time that their position in our society was significantly strengthened. But now that every other municipality will save those who need the welfare of society most, it is the elderly who are most affected. This, of course, can never be accepted. This is why we provide SEK 1 billion more in our budget as a whole to enable the municipalities to meet the needs and to increase the living standards of the elderly as a whole. But precisely today, Madam President, it is specifically category 11 Economic security in old age that is to be debated. All in all, the Swedish Democrats allocate over SEK 4 billion more than the government to this expenditure area for 2020. Since our proposal for appropriations in the field of expenditure is higher than that of the government, we are not in a position to reserve ourselves against the government's proposals in favour of our own proposal. That's how the rules work. That is why we choose to refrain from taking a position. Instead, we are presenting a specific opinion setting out our policy proposals in this area. As all of us already know, pensioners in our country are in no way a homogeneous group where everyone's everyday life and standard of living look exactly the same. There are, of course, those who live well on their pension and are satisfied with the way in which life takes place after the end of service, when entry into pensioner life has begun. But there are also those who have a very difficult economic everyday life where the money is impossible enough for each month. The situation for these is alarming and acute. Today, over 300 000 pensioners live below the poverty line in Sweden. The statistics contain what must be described as social misery but also an intermediate layer which, after more than 30 years of hard work, has an unfairly low standard of living. The fact that more than 300 000 pensioners are already living below the poverty line is a disgrace and not worthy of a welfare country like ours. The Swedish Democrats have proposed and budgeted for an increase in the guarantee pension of SEK 1 000 per month. To achieve this ambition, we propose an increase of SEK 800 per month in addition to the increase proposed by the Government and decided by SEK 200 per month. However, our proposed action is not only aimed at strengthening socio-economically weak groups among older people, but also involves gender equality reform. Among older women, approximately every other woman receives a guarantee pension, while the corresponding figure for older men amounts to more modest 15 per cent. For the Swedish Democrats, it is important that every person who reaches retirement age should not have to live on the poverty line and constantly worry about how the last week before the pension payment should be handled. Nor should anyone have to work far beyond the retirement age, otherwise the transition between pay and pension would be economically devastating. For us, it is a priority to ensure that safety nets are so comprehensive that the concept of a poor pensioner no longer exists. Madam President, I would like Loneliness, unwanted isolation and a steady deterioration in the mental health of the elderly must be taken very seriously. The economic situation of the individual is of course extremely important for the everyday life of the individual. It affects how the person's well-being looks and thus how the person is doing. We shall be able to show respect and reverence for the older generations in every way we can by ensuring that they have good living conditions. They are the ones who have built up our welfare, and it is our job to maintain it and improve it so that we can proudly hand it over to our children. Having meaning and participation in society are extremely important parts of a person's well-being. For us elected representatives, it is about creating the conditions for what gives life courage, joy of life and a sense of context. Loneliness means chronic stress that takes physical forms such as reduced appetite and increased risk of angina, heart attack and stroke. We must take strong action against harmful loneliness and take this into account when making various political decisions. This is important not least when we discuss economic security in old age. We all operate here in our small country, a country where we pay one of the highest taxes in the world. We Swedes are very much in favour of paying taxes that go to our welfare. But then our common tax cake will be distributed in a way worthy of people who live here, including those who have reached old age. We therefore believe that the so-called pensioner's tax should be removed and that the pension should be regarded as deferred salary. The old-age pension system we have today is not financially sustainable in the sense that citizens do not receive a sufficiently high pension, measured as a proportion of the final salary. The entire pension system is underfunded and not adapted to demographic developments. For an average 80-talist who entered the labour market at the age of 25 and works until 67 years with a final salary of 30 000 SEK per month in the current monetary value, the forecast is an income pension of only 13 600 SEK per month. That's a long way from the target of 80% of the final salary. Thus, the problem of pensions calls for both short-term and long-term measures. It is also important to facilitate private pension savings. It is therefore appropriate to introduce a tax-based, highly favourable pension saving, which is not only aimed at those who have higher incomes and who, in the long run, allow the individual to retire earlier or to supplement the standard old-age pension. Of course, this opportunity must also be available to those who want and can save their own pensions in order to prolong their retirement life and enjoy their hobbies and perhaps grandchildren before their health becomes too bad to do so. The Swedish democrats are critical of the qualification rule that exists today. This means that immigrants who have been granted a residence permit for reasons of refugee or other protection need can be credited time in their home country when deciding on the amount of the guarantee pension. We believe that this is unreasonable in general but also especially now that the barns are echoing empty despite the Minister of Finance's statements that they are well-filled. That's not what it looks like. The Swedish Democrats therefore propose that this so-called qualification rule be abolished. Madam President, I would like Today we celebrate Lucia, and Christmas is about to come — a long-awaited, loved and wonderful festival for most, when the family often gathers for a joint celebration in the light of joy. As many describe, it is precisely by Christmas that displaced family members go home to socialize with their loved ones during one or several days of fellowship. However, some do not feel that desire and joy, but instead face the approaching Christmas with anxiety, money troubles and loneliness. Many are the elderly who are ashamed of their children for not being able to afford food. Maybe they haven't told the kids a word about how bad it is. Perhaps it is the children who invite their parents to their home, and that may all work. But, Madam President, that fine doll, a legot or a carpenter's belt that the grandchildren have so much wanted, there is no way to buy. And many are those who would rather stay at home alone instead of ashamed to come to their grandchildren without having a package with them. With this, Madam President, before the coming festival, I would like to say to the generation that came before us and that has left a social heritage for us to manage in the best way: May peace and warmth, light and love follow you during the Christmas feast and the rest of the cold winter. May none of you have to freeze or be hungry.
i-eded400aa1fab400-380	Thank you for the lovely conclusion! However, I would like to remind you that the President and the group leaders have agreed that the time in the speaker's chair should be limited to eight minutes. On the other hand, everyone in the committee round can ask for a reply and thus extend the debate. That's the deal.
i-eded400aa1fab400-381	Madam President, I would like The differences between people continue to grow, not least with the government's and the cooperation parties' proposals for the budget. We're getting older, they say, but it doesn't apply to everyone. The large class gaps have led to even a decline in the life expectancy of short-term educated women. For example, women working in care mean the increased retirement age that the government and the bourgeois parties decided earlier this year only that they can work longer and shorter lives. The pension system does not work, not because the retirement age is too low, but because the pensions themselves are too low. Every fourth person gets anxiety from getting home their orange envelope, and 13-year-olds feel they need to save money for their pension. That is a legitimate concern. Those who retire today will receive half their salary in retirement, and this will be further reduced for later generations. Madam President, I would like This is what it is all about. It is we who built the country who will pay when those who have already got more. It's shameful! I quote, "Retirement is enough for food and rent, and then these women are stopped." I know more than 70 years who work extra to make fun of themselves. I have a pensioner now who needs a big renovation of her teeth and where the daughter has to help pay. It's terrible not to fix it yourself when you've been working your whole life. This is what Ann-Ann-Christin Ekström from PRO in Botkyrka says in an interview in the newspaper Mid i. Today we Swedes work the longest throughout the EU. At the same time, we are at the bottom of the issue of the level of pensions. We have the largest share of poor pensioners in the Nordic countries. Nearly half of all women who are old-age pensioners today have a guarantee pension, the lowest level of state protection. The current pension system is unpredictable and creates insecurity for people. We believe that our common pension system should be designed in such a way that it provides financial conditions for a dignified life when the time at work is over. Madam President, I would like The Left Party has been pushing for a long time to raise pensions. The gaps in Sweden are growing as a result of an economic policy that benefits few at the expense of all of us. The pension system is part of that policy. Over 300 000 Swedish pensioners are at risk of falling below the EU poverty line. Every other woman who works her entire career receives such a low pension that she is forced to apply for a guarantee pension. Since the introduction of the guarantee pension, pensioners with this income have fallen significantly behind. On average, they have had a real income increase of 15%, compared with 45% for working people. Madam President, I would like These are the people we are talking about. So most of them are women. In Expressen a while ago some of these women described their everyday life. "I can't afford to eat fish" says Jeniffer, 66. "I only buy Christmas gifts for my grandchildren every five years," says Eva, 76. "I wish I could have a little more fun for my savings than just survive" says Kerstin, 66. Madam President, I would like Filling the big gaps between those living on low pensions and the rest of the population requires a substantial increase in pensions. The Left Party believes that pensioners should not have to risk poverty and that, in the long term, the income development of the group needs to keep up with general wage developments. In this year's budget exercise, we propose an increase in the guarantee pension of SEK 1 000 per month, as a first step. Madam President, I would like The government is creating greater inequality, because, while doing far too little for pensioners, it is lowering taxes for the already rich. In the budget, the removal of the military tax costs just over 6 billion per year. For just over half that amount, we could have accepted our proposal and given substantial increases in pensions to those who built our country. The government therefore prefers, for example, to give Volvo's CEO Martin Lundstedt a tax reduction of 2.5 million per year. This also happens after the current budget, which the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats voted for and which has meant more to the rich and less to the welfare and all of us. Instead, the money could have gone to enable pensioners to at least give their grandchildren a Christmas present, eat a little better food and live, not just survive. But what do you say? Each one is closest to himself. Madam President, I would like We want to raise pensions. Today, the general pension contribution is about 17% on wages below 40,000 a month. Higher incomes are often higher insured, with contributions of 30% through the contract pension. It is therefore reasonable that the contribution and thus the pension should be increased primarily for those with wages below 40 000. In order to increase equality, we want to examine the possibility of using the pension contribution above the income ceiling. It should go back to the common pension collective. With a quick example of calculation, pensions could be increased by an average of another SEK 900 a month for all who earn less than 40,000. Sickness and activity benefits should also be increased. The pensioners who have sickness benefits, the so-called disability pensioners, are a group that is often forgotten. That group's income should also be increased by SEK 1 150 per month. Madam President, I would like Swedish pensioners deserve far better than what they receive today. The Left Party wants to see substantial investment and reasonable pensions. That is why we are abstaining in today's vote.
i-eded400aa1fab400-397	Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats' proposals on this area of expenditure, financial security for our elderly, are detailed in our party motion, and we also have a special opinion in this section. The Christian Democrats have long been the driving force to create better economic conditions for our pensioners. During the alliance governments between 2006 and 2014, we negotiated five tax cuts on pensions and three increases in the housing supplement for pensioners. Strengthening the economy of the poorest pensioners is important for us Christian Democrats. During the previous term of office, we presented in the budget exercise after budgetary exercise a fully financed elimination of the difference between labour tax and pension tax. Together with the Moderates, a year ago in this House we received a response to the 2019 budget, in which we reduced the tax on pensions for all pensioners, not just for those with a pension over 17 200, which was the alternative. In fact, for a pensioner with about $15,000 in retirement, this meant $1,300 in his wallet per year. During this autumn, we have also, through an agreement in the parliamentary pension group, decided to increase the guarantee pension and the ceiling of the housing supplement. We Christian Democrats would like to raise the ceiling to SEK 7 500, but now it was SEK 7 000, and that is important. At the same time, we must heed the problem that exists here, namely that for some reason 44% of pensioners who are entitled to the housing allowance do not take part in it. The housing supplement is a very important part of the basic protection that has been designed. It can therefore be seen – and it is easy for anyone who wants to check – that we Christian Democrats are giving priority to the situation of the elderly, not only when it is time for the election movement. Madam President, I would like The pension may appear to be a small part of the general pension. After all, it is only 2.5% of pensionable income that is deposited in our own premium pension accounts. But over time, the premium pension becomes a significant part. The pension also gives us freedom of choice. We are free to choose how we want our pension funds to be managed, what risks we want to take and how active we want to be. The pension agreement from 2017 describes that we will reform the premium pension in two steps. The first step has now been implemented and can be described as strengthening consumer protection. We have cleaned out rogue managers and made clearer and higher connection requirements. Now I hope that we will have an evaluation which shows that the measures taken have been correct and balanced before we proceed with Step 2, which is now being referred to. Madam President, I would like I know this percentage thing is going to be very abstract, but I was going to go after it anyway. Since its inception, the pension has grown by over 7 per cent a year. This should be compared to the income pension system's more than 3 per cent. This difference is significant, for if growth is only 2 percent higher over 40 years, this means that the person who has had an average income of SEK 30 000 per month will receive $200,000 more in retirement. The pension has also contributed more than SEK 250 billion to the Swedish venture capital supply. Encouraging the active choice of funds in the fund square is therefore not only good for our own future pension but also very important for our business community and our competitiveness in a globalised world. Pension savers provide Swedish companies with capital for investments. In this way companies can grow, we get higher growth in the economy and pensions are getting higher. We'll take care of this. It is therefore important that we handle the design of the premium pension wisely. However, in the second stage which is now being consulted, the investigator seems to have interpreted the directive as meaning that the active elections should in principle cease. He predicts that 3 000 billion of the system's total of 4 000 billion will end up in the pre-election phase, AP7. But what are the consequences if this happens? We cannot, of course, make decisions that allow the flow of capital to be controlled from the Swedish companies to global index funds. In addition to capital for investments, there is another gain with the premium pension, and that is that it has had a major impact on the sustainability development of the Swedish market. This is because the Swedish pension savers, that is, we ourselves, care about sustainability and want to make conscious choices. Today, most of the invested capital has been invested on the basis of sustainable and environmentally conscious choices. I read a rather amazing thing this morning: over 70% of the capital currently in the fund square is invested in funds that meet the requirements for sustainable investment. And even better, it keeps increasing. Our choices have affected the way companies invest. Here too, the question becomes relevant: How does it affect sustainability if we control the flow of capital towards global index funds? We Christian Democrats want continued freedom of choice for premium pension savers. I believe in more public education about how the fund selection works so that its competitiveness in relation to pre-election becomes proper. The choice is good, but it also involves a risk that the flow of capital is directed towards foreign companies that are part of so-called global indexes and at the same time away from our own Swedish companies. This development is not good in the long term for those of us who want a strong, long-term and sustainable pension system To conclude, I would like to wish everyone a blessed Christmas and a good vacation.
i-eded400aa1fab400-412	Madam President, I would like The financial backlash for the elderly is a cen tral part of the Swedish welfare model. Anyone who has worked and contributed to society t and been involved in building Sweden to the amazing country it is should be able to retire and feel back with a reasonable income. For more than 20 years, we have had a robust and sustainable pension system if we no longer overwhelm the debts of future generations and where the pension we have earned throughout our lives is complemented by a tax-funded basic protection to counteract the financial vulnerability of those who have not earned enough. The pension system is stable, but it delivers too badly in far too many cases. This is partly because we are living longer and longer, but also because we are allocating everything too low a fee. The average life expectancy has increased by three and a half times a day, and the expected retirement period is today three years longer than when we decided on the new pension system in the 19th century. It is, of course, extremely positive and gratifying that we are living longer and longer, but it also means that pensions will be lower because they will have to last for the more and more years we have as pensioners. In order to counter the decline in pension levels, working life must inevitably be more sustainable and gradually extended. It is both a question of entering the labour market somewhat earlier and of being able to cope a little longer. Another way to increase contributions to the pension system is to adjust the level of contributions themselves. Given that the determined contribution of 18.5% of salary has in practice been reduced to 17.21 percent, it is a perfectly reasonable conclusion and position that today's pension system, although it has a good model, is underfunded. We simply do not pay as much as we once decided we needed to do. We ocial democrats have set ourselves the goal that ordinary wage earners should in the long term have a pension equal to 70% of their final salary. In order to achieve this, we see that it will be needed both, that is to say, an extended working life and an increase in old-age pension contributions. Madam President, I would like When we manage pensions, we work with very long-term perspectives that we need to take responsibility for, but that does not mean, of course, that we can close our eyes to the fact that working life and other factors outside the pension system itself affect the pension we will one day receive and that historical injustices and inequality have an impact today. On the contrary, the changes affecting future pensions need to be complemented by measures here and now, without, for that reason, abandoning the principles that make us today have a robust and sustainable pension system. As an example of what we Social Democrats had already pushed through the last parliamentary term, when we came back to power, and which had an immediate effect on pensioners' finances, I can mention that we improved the housing allowance on two occasions. We also reduced taxes on pensioners. In this context, I would like to extend the text a little bit and recapitulate what it was like: it was the old moderate-led government that introduced the unfair regime that pensioners pay higher taxes than those who work. It is, of course, a totally unreasonable scheme, because pensions are deferred wages and, of course, should be taxed equally. Already during the last term of office, we began to clean up the mess of the Moderates in this area. We started by removing the unfair tax gap. In this budget, we have taken another step in this direction. I would like to remind you that the tax gap between pensioners and those working in employment would have been completely gone if it were not because the Moderates and Christian Democrats, supported by the Swedish Democrats last year, had pushed through another job tax deduction. For us Social Democrats, the goal is fixed. We're going to remove this gulf. It is a fundamental issue of fairness, decency and respect for the country's pensioners. Madam President, I would like It is also a question of further improving the financial security of pensioners here and now. We are pleased enough in the cross-block Pensions Group to agree on improvements to basic protection. With this budget, several important improvements are being made. We raise the ceiling of the housing supplement once more, and we raise the guarantee pension for the first time in a very long time. Thus, in just a few weeks' time, 675 000 pensioners will have an increased disposable income of up to SEK 1,500 per month after tax. It is not possible to say anything other than that it is a substantial and welcome addition for a great many. In my days as a pension politician, I have met with a lot of concerns and concerns about the fact that the basic protection of the most vulnerable pensioners is not enough. I share that concern. I share the concern for vulnerability and increased gaps in society. Therefore, the increase in the guarantee pension and the housing supplement is very important. However, Madam President, I have, if possible, met with even more views and frustrations about the fact that the person who has worked and worn out an entire working life can receive such a low pension that it does not differ significantly between the person who has worked and the person who receives a guarantee pension from society. As right as it is to make the above-mentioned improvement in basic protection, it is to have a distance of respect, so that it actually pays to have worked. To raise the pensions of the rather broad group of pensioners who, after working life, have a earned income pension in the range of SEK 9 000 – 17 000 is a high priority for us Social Democrats. In order for today's pensioners to receive a higher income pension, we have proposed, in addition to proposals for an increase in old-age pension contributions and a more sustainable and progressively extended working life, a tax-funded supplement to the income pension for this particular group of pensioners, which would increase income by up to SEK 600 per month. In contrast to the usual income pension, this would be a tax-financed supplement, but we imagine that it would be paid out automatically together with the other pension from the Pension Agency so that it would be as simple as possible for the individual. Madam President, I would like In this particular part, I look forward to coming back in the hopefully not too distant future. I hope, of course, that this may then have been supported even more widely in the House of Parliament. In conclusion, there is little left for me but to ask for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the President, the members and staff of the committee and, above all, the country's pensioners and pension savers, who will hopefully listen to the debate today, a continued happy lucia and a good 2020.
i-eded400aa1fab400-432	Madam President, I would like I listened to Teresa Carvalho and heard about the unfair taxes. Does Teresa Carvalho know when it was most unfair? It was before 2006, before the Alliance. At the time, it was very unfair taxes for pensioners in Sweden. Then every pensioner paid at least SEK 1 000 more in tax each month. With our tax cuts during the alliance years – there were five for pensioners – pensioners received SEK 1 000 more in their wallets. I think it's a bit bleak that we're talking about unfair taxes. One can always discuss who will pay more or less, and we may never really agree on that. But the injustice was that you scrounged the poor old-age pensioners that existed at the time. It paid a lot more in taxes. That's not fair. The best and safest way for every person to get more in his wallet is first to work and second to get reduced tax. This also applies to pensioners. You should work longer in the years. You should also be able to work more while you are going to work, during your active period. Nor can I understand why the government chooses next year not to reduce the tax on them with the lowest pensions. You lower the tax on pensioners who have 17 000 SEK in retirement but not for anyone else. I don't think you should talk so much about injustice, because you're the one who's creating it right now.
i-eded400aa1fab400-436	Madam President, I would like Katarina Brännström says that you can always discuss who should pay more in taxes. We Social Democrats believe that pensions are deferred wages and should be taxed equally as wages. That message is solid. We came to power in 2014 and then began to clean up after the introduced injustice. Step by step we removed that tax gap. The reason why we now have, above all, a tax cut for those who have the slightly higher pensions is that we have already removed the unfair tax on those who have lower pensions. My message is solid. We Social Democrats have always felt – and we still think so today – that pensions are deferred wages and should be taxed equally. What the Moderates think on this matter seems to vary, but for us Social Democrats the goal is fixed.
i-eded400aa1fab400-439	Madam President, I would like It's kind of strange when you listen to this cleanup thing. When we gave people more in their wallets, you'd clean up. Everyone, even those who worked, got more in their wallets. All pensioners got more in their wallets. It was just that those who worked got a little more in their wallet. Is this something to clean up? In that case, I think you should clean up now that you actually have the power. You usually use poor pensioners as a very fine expression, but right now it shines with its absence. Those who have really low pensions, those who have worked part-time and women in low wages leave now, because you have achieved some sort of justice. It's an incredibly strange way of arguing. It will be fair when you pay the same amount of tax even though you have a very small income. We're lowering taxes for everyone, and we think that's fair.
i-eded400aa1fab400-442	Madam President, I would like I must admit that I am somewhat surprised by Katarina Brännström's incredible outrage at the fact that we Social Democrats stand up because pensions are deferred wages and are to be taxed equally. My message is solid. This is something that we Social Democrats will continue to strive for. I hope that the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats the next time they agree to join together have learned from the mistake they have made before and do not repeat it so that there is an increased tax gap. It goes without saying to me that pensioners should pay no more tax than those who are currently in work. We also want to do other things, Madam President, than use the tax instrument and introduce fair taxation. For example, we want a supplement to the income pension for those who have an income pension just above the guarantee level, so that it pays to have worked a little more.
i-eded400aa1fab400-445	Madam President, I would like I understand that in government it can be difficult to set priorities that are often tough and difficult. Nevertheless, I am very concerned about the government's priorities with regard to the elderly. I cannot understand how the government can give priority to the elderly as it so often does. It is about people in this country who have worked and worked their whole lives, including for their pension. Yet the government wants to increase the pension by only SEK 200. Why not adopt stronger priorities that give a little more? 200 kroner is not much to come with. I would like to remind you that the Swedish Democrats increase this by 800 SEK so that it will be at least one thousand extra a month. In addition to this, the government reduced taxes on pensions in the autumn budget, which was very good, at a cost of SEK 4.33 billion. Instead of further reducing the tax on pensions, however, it was decided to reduce the military tax at a cost of SEK 6.1 billion. Why has the government made this priority?
i-eded400aa1fab400-447	Madam President, I would like Of course, improvements in basic protection, which the government, together with the parties in the Pensions Group, are now implementing, must be seen as a whole. The guarantee pension and the housing supplement are linked and are now increased by up to SEK 1,500 per month after tax. In fact, to portray this as something daft, I find a little mockery of all pensioners who are now turning every penny around to afford Christmas gifts for their grandchildren. I also note that the Swedish Democrats are not at all as keen to tell you that, while proposing a further increase in the guarantee pension, they are proposing a reduction in the housing supplement in the structure they have chosen. The overall difference between the proposals is therefore not at all as great as the honourable Member is trying to show. But there is another important difference in the proposals, and that is that the Swedish Democrats in their construction also choose a model that reduces the distance of respect and makes it comparatively less profitable to have worked. I think it is right and important to make this improvement in basic protection that we are actually doing now. But before we do so even more, we Social Democrats believe that it is a priority to raise the income pensions of pensioners who have worked for a full working life but who still receive relatively low pensions. It is also a question of justice.
i-eded400aa1fab400-450	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for the answer to the question, although I note that the honourable Member did not say anything at all about the defence tax and the priority that has been made there. The Social Democrats want to portray themselves as the party that is best for the elderly and say from the pulpit today that we Swedish democrats are mocking. I think it's exactly the opposite right now. The Social Democrats are by no means a party to be reckoned with for the elderly. I think that sometimes the Social Democrats are being derisive of pensioners by not giving them the full support they would need.
i-eded400aa1fab400-452	Madam President, I would like Let's talk about treasure. With regard to the removal of the military tax, it is no secret that it was not the Social Democrats' highest wish. It was a consequence of the compromise that we made to get other policies that stood higher on our agenda. But let us talk about the tax paid by pensioners, and let us talk about the track record of the Swedish democrats in this area. Let us talk about 2014 when we Social Democrats came back to power. What was the first thing that happened? Well, we wanted to remove parts of the unfair tax paid by pensioners. What did the Swedish Democrats do then? Well, along with the Moderates and Christian Democrats, they postponed this reform. Let us talk about what happened last year, when the Swedish Democrats had the opportunity to stand up for what they had said about pensioners not paying higher taxes than those who work. What did they do? They joined forces with the Moderates and Christian Democrats and ensured that there is still a tax gap between pensioners and wage earners. We Social Democrats want to remove the unfair tax on pensioners. The Swedish Democrats have a track record in this area that does not quite allow the same.
i-eded400aa1fab400-456	Madam President, I would like Economic security in old age means, above all, having a pension. It is therefore extremely important that we have a secure and predictable pension system. Since we in Sweden have the unique Pensions Group, we guarantee long-term sustainability and stability. It is not different governments that are going to change the system, but it is the inter-political Pensions Group that, through agreements, ensures that we all know the conditions for getting a pension. Through the Swedish Pension Agency and M inpension.se, we can easily get an overview of what pension we can receive. However, the information may be better, and here the government has an important task to ensure that all channels develop and become better known. The information needs to be done earlier, already in school, which we in the Center Party are pushing for. In addition, it needs to be continued through the labour market through the social partners. But the most important thing that everyone needs to know is that it is the income of life that determines the size of the pension. During the year, we have decided to increase the guarantee pension and the housing supplement. That's good. This makes it better for those with the lowest pensions. It is important for us in the Center Party, because it is mainly women who have guaranteed pensions and the lowest pensions. That is why this measure is a means of increasing equality. The Pensions Group continues to have an important role to play in improving gender equality. It is far from everyone who is eligible for housing allowance who seeks it. Here the government must push the Pensions Authority so that more people can learn about the housing supplement. Less housing costs create more space in your wallet for other things. In addition, the processing times for the housing supplement of the Pensions Agency are too long. They must be shortened so that a decision can be made more quickly. Here, too, the government has a great responsibility. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-eded400aa1fab400-462	Madam President, I would like This is the second debate we have this autumn on the same subject. A few months ago we discussed the very positive changes that are taking place in the pension system. Increasing the guarantee pension is absolutely necessary. It wasn't a simple thing. The pension is based on working-life income, and there must be a distance of respect between guarantee pension and pension that has been worked together, so to speak. I think that a reasonable solution has been found. Raising the housing supplement is absolutely necessary. It is also very accurate. However, as has been said here before, information on the right to housing allowance needs to be improved. I would prefer to see this go automatically when you submit your tax return and find out how much you should pay in tax. But one must also look at why people do not apply for housing allowance. What are the underlying factors? We should be delighted that, with regard to pensions, we did not have the same situation as France today with a general strike. We managed to make this major change in our pension system during the 1990s, from the previous one we could not afford – the ATP system – to the current system. We are now gradually moving forward to improve the situation of the most deprived pensioners, as has been mentioned in several speeches here. This includes a gradual improvement in their income and a change in their expenditure. I look forward to what the investigation on the dental insurance to be presented next autumn could mean in the form of relief in expenses for all these year-long people who have their teeth left. How are we going to get advice in the future? The age to which we have the right to remain in working life has been raised, but we also need to be better at enabling those who want to continue working after the age of 68-69. The work of the Senior Labour Delegation is of interest. Today's election report due to age has been presented. The report addresses age discrimination in recruitment. In the report, studies of how employers view people of different ages have been gathered. Yeah, it's good to be between 30 and 40. Then it goes downhill. If you're 60-plus, you can basically forget to take the time to look for a new job. We cannot afford this in Sweden. We must open up to anyone who wants and can contribute to our prosperity with work. We also need to get better at getting people to work higher up in their ages. This is something that the Senior Labour Delegation is discussing a lot. It is about efforts in the field of occupational medicine, and occupational health care needs to be much better. Earlier in working life, people must be able to train and also take other jobs in order to be able to work higher up the age bracket. This does not solve the situation of today's poor pensioners, but it prevents that group from increasing in the future. What about the different employers? Perhaps this is something that belongs better in another committee debate, but I would still like to mention this. The state is the worst at enabling 67-plusers to continue working. Regions and municipalities are a little better. In fact, business is the best. There we look at the need for skills. If some are very competent, and are up to the age, that labour force is retained. That is what the Delegation for Senior Labour has found. There are challenges here. On 1 October next year, there will be a final report from the delegation with, I hope, sharp proposals that change the age-old view of a year-long workforce, which offers opportunities for people who want and can continue to work and contribute to our prosperity. In this way, they can jointly and severally finance the welfare measures, health care and so on, which we so badly need in a country where health care is now on its knees. With this, I wish fine weekends and a happy new year – not least to the President, to those sitting here and to those who watch the debate via their television sets.
i-GpQdHaDEov5ymbvbb5j1ti	( FIRST VICE TALMANN: Thank you very much for your greeting! )
i-eded400aa1fab400-471	Madam President, I would like Everyone has the right to a dignified old age, to live a good life in old age without turning and turning every crown at the end of the month, to know the security of a sufficient pension. We know it doesn't look like that today. Too many pensioners live with economic conditions that do not make it possible to live a full life. Despite a low standard of living and low expenditure, the pension is not enough for many people. It is to civil society in the form of churches and relief organisations that too many older people are extradited for food during the last days of the month. Over the last 15 years, the poorest pensioners have almost doubled. More and more people have been forced into an extremely vulnerable economic situation, which for many creates difficult life conditions. It is possible to participate in society in different ways that is restricted, and many say that social life has to stand back. Loneliness is spreading. The Green Party went to elections to improve the living conditions of pensioners in Sweden who have the worst and to give priority to the group with the lowest pension. It is now the government's policy, following an agreement in the Pensions Group. No one should have to turn to nonprofit forces to be able to afford food during the last days of the month. By increasing the basic level of the guarantee pension by SEK 200 while at the same time raising the ceiling of the housing supplement, a real improvement is created in many wallets. Both are initiatives that clearly meet the pensioners who need the extra money most. Together, some 675 000 pensioners are directly affected by the proposal. In particular, it benefits those women who currently live in financial vulnerability. Madam President, I would like That Sweden today is one of the world's most equal countries, we have generations of previous women's struggle to thank for. The feminist victories that we have reaped in recent decades have not come of themselves, but are courageous people who have gone ahead. They have fought for the rights that we see as self-evident today. Sweden is today more equal than it has ever been. Despite the fact that there are conservative forces in society that want to back-up development, everything indicates that we are moving forward. Pension is one of our most important gender equality issues. It is those who are older today who have fought for Sweden to become one of the world's most equal countries. It is thanks to them that the pension gap between women and men will not be as great for our children as it is unfortunately today. Equal work is crucial to raising women's pensions. Equal participation in parenting and domestic work is two of the many factors that allow women's position in the labour market to be strengthened. It also gives results on pensions. Our overall policy for an equal society is crucial here, but we also need to focus efforts on those women who, as a result of an unequal society today, have the worst pensions. Let's do that. The government's priorities in this budget are right. By increasing the guarantee pension and the housing supplement, we aim at those who live in the greatest financial vulnerability, which is usually women. The pension that everyone is going to receive is going to live on, and no one is going to be relegated to poverty. Madam President, I would like In addition to the investment in the budget, the government is also pushing for a policy in other areas that will improve the conditions for future generations to live on their pension. With a more flexible working life that makes it easier to stay longer at work, it also creates the opportunity for more people to work longer and increase their pension. At the same time, we are also investing in a sustainable working life so that more people will be able to work right up to retirement. It is an important investment both for society and for each individual. Madam President, I would like The investments we make in the budget are important for Sweden's pensioners. In the January agreement, we have also stated that the work to improve the conditions for Swedish pensioners will continue during the term of office. For all those who have worked a whole life on laborious jobs with poor pay or taken care of the unpaid domestic work, we strengthen the conditions to take part in our common prosperity that they have been involved in building up. It's only right. I support the proposal in the report.
i-eded400aa1fab400-484	Madam President, I would like I would really like to wish the people a proper Christmas present in the form of the moderate budget. It is a budget for Sweden, a restored social contract. Restoring the social contract means that the state is there when you need it and that as a citizen you take full responsibility for yourself and do the right thing. In return, you get security and help when you need it. This means that the police come when needed, that cheating with subsidies – our common resources – is corrected and that care is available when you need it. And when life goes a little crazy, there should be support. Everyone should have the same opportunities and the same rights but also the same obligations. When our social contract is threatened with widespread insecurity and lack of well-being, wise priorities are needed. It takes order and order, and it requires that you see reality exactly as it is. The Moderates believe that Swedish benefits and allowances should be granted only through their own work or through permanent and legal residence in Sweden. Making demands on citizens e is not mean, but on the contrary: it is caring about them. Compensation for parental leave and other care shall be linked to work. Parental insurance shall be primarily a loss-of-income insurance. D the forces to strive for self-sufficiency and greater freedom of day-to-day living must be reflected in the level of remuneration; In order to prevent people from ending up outside society, child allowances should only be paid to those who are Swedish citizens or who have a job here. In other cases, compensation should be limited to basic general security. Paid parental leave and publicly funded childcare have laid the foundations for both women and men to combine work and family life. Work is the cornerstone of an equal society. The Moderates have pushed for reforms to improve the driving forces for work, which have contributed to increased conditions for economic equality. It has become more profitable for everyone to leave exclusion thanks to the job tax deduction. Since the improvement in relative terms has been greatest for low- and middle-income earners, the drivers of work have been strengthened more for women than for men. The Moderates want to continue to reduce taxes, with emphasis on those with low incomes, not least to make it more profitable for women to work. A higher employment rate among women leads both to higher growth and to an increase in women's economic power and ability to shape their lives. However, despite high gender equality ambitions, the patterns that are broken that mean that women take the greatest responsibility for children are not broken, while men can invest in working life. Women still have lower wages, lower incomes and lower pensions. Women and men earn as much and are bosses to the same extent before they have children, but when the children come, the women lose their pay and income and become more seldom bosses compared to the men. The fact that women take a larger share of parental leave means that they continue to take greater responsibility for unpaid domestic work and work more part-time even after parental leave. This leads to stress-related illnesses resulting from sick leave. This leads to even worse career opportunities, which in turn leads to even worse pensions. Gender equality in working life must be achieved in order to achieve genuine equality. The paid parental leave must be long enough to cover the child's need for care without endangering the mother's ability to recover. But we must dare to change parental insurance so that it concentrates on the child's very first year, especially to encourage fathers to stay home more when the child is small. A flexible parental leave system increases men's leave and makes it easier for both women and men. However, the unlimited possibility of extending leave means that many women are too long removed from the labour market. More time with both parents early in life would benefit both the child and gender equality. At the same time, it is important that both parents have experience of taking full responsibility for the child on their own. For those who have not yet entered the labour market, it is crucial that it is easy to leave children in preschool and that the driving forces to look for work are clear. Long periods of absence from the labour market, for example by combining benefit and parental benefit at basic level, increase the risk of exclusion. Foreign born women currently have an employment rate that is far lower than that of native women. Many have never even entered the labour market. This is a poverty trap that we cannot accept. With a more generous preschool and shorter parental allowance, the requirement to be employable should increase for people with subsistence support. And to make demands is, as I said, to care about for real. Therefore, the Moderates propose that parental benefit at basic level, i.e. for those who do not have earned income, should be limited to 365 days. We also want the free preschool to be extended to 30 hours for children of parents who are long-term unemployed and who are actively looking for work. Madam President, I would like We know that the best insurance against alienation is a safe upbringing and a good school outcome. It is also necessary to act early. So let's work on this together!
i-eded400aa1fab400-500	Madam President, I would like We are now debating Area of Expenditure 12 Economic security for families and children. Since the efforts of the Swedish Democrats within this appropriation are considerably greater than those of the Government, we have no proposal of our own to ask for approval. Nevertheless, I would like to explain and tell you a little about our position in this area. Worth mentioning is that we are spending more than 5 billion more on this area of expenditure than the government does. Madam President, I would like It is the strong opinion of the Swedish Democrats that family policy should create the very best conditions for families, not least during the early childhood years. Unfortunately, we see tendencies from some parties that want to shape family policy as a tool for achieving progress in labour market policy rather than protecting children and families. The Social Democrats believe that they are a vote for a stronger society where the parent can both work full-time and have children without putting a knot on himself and without going down in working hours. I am not sure if I can agree that it would be particularly family-friendly. Having said that, it is the purpose of Sweden's democrats to change the social-democratically-stressed family policy to simply become more family-friendly. By, for example, enabling alternative childcare facilities that can be used for the first three years, which means that you as a parent can take part in the municipal childcare allowance, the parents can stay at home a little longer with the children without losing too much money. It would then be possible to combine this with part-time work. We know that not all children are ready to be left in preschool at the age of one year. There are also parents who want to stay home a little longer with their children. It should be possible to a greater extent than is possible with the government's policy today that you should go to work as soon as possible. We can also see a clear link between the policy pursued and the increase in mental illness among both children and adults and, not least, parents of young children. Women are significantly more sick than men, especially between 30 and 45 years of age, and most of them are mothers of young children. To a large extent, sick leave is linked to stress. Madam President, I would like It is not difficult to put together one by one the signals sent to our future parents, not least to the women, that the stress and pressure are great. As a parent, you question yourself and feel a little guilty about the time you are at home. You're kind of not poppy enough if you choose to be on parental leave to breast-feed or simply want to spend more time with your little ones. Children are left at preschool just over a year old and often live in too large groups of children with many individuals to relate, several adults to connect to and not rarely in a noisy environment and on large surfaces. Our young children often have long days at preschool. It is not uncommon for them to attend preschool more than full - time. They are left early in the morning to be picked up late afternoon by their full - time parents, who longed for the whole day and who, in turn, are hysterically stressed. Once at home you should get all the everyday chores with laundry piles, cleaning, outing lunch bag to be fixed, dinner to be done with, and you should try to get time for conversations and to spend time with your family. All this will be completed in a few evening hours before a new everyday wheel starts. I dare say that from a helicopter perspective it is hysterical and far from what many have thought after months of yearning for children. We must make it more humane. It must be possible to reconcile work and family life in a more sensible way. At the same time, I would like to point out that, of course, we should work, but perhaps not fully in the early days when the children are at least. We believe that more financial incentives are needed for time with children during this period to be possible without losing too much money and, by extension, what goes to retirement. Madam President, I would like We do not see the quota of parental days as a primary way of achieving this. Instead, it is another requirement among everyone else to set up and adapt their time to fit in and be a little politically correct from the government's perspective. Sure, it's important that both parents take the responsibility of the parenting role. I have said it before and say again that I am absolutely convinced that parents have the ability to distribute parenting days on their own. Madam President, I would like The Social Insurance Agency says that the number of parental days taken by the father has increased slightly but that the number of unpaid days taken by the woman is an effect of this. If the government's goal of women being released as quickly as possible into working life because, as it is said, it is a women's trap to go home, it becomes a little strange that because of the quota is at home more unpaid. This results in a loss of both income and pension. Perhaps you choose to take unpaid leave to try to get the everyday puzzle together. Madam President, I would like To really protect the baby years is very important to us. We have many thoughts and suggestions. One proposal is to introduce more double days in order to increase flexibility in the withdrawal of parental days but also to allow parents to be at home together for the first month, if they so wish. At the same time, making more days double days gives greater freedom of choice. Parents who choose to have children closely also have a greater need to get together in the first month. It can then feel tough for the father to return to work after ten father days. We also want to introduce ten pregnancy allowance days which will enable the pregnant person to be at home in connection with the expected birth, regardless of whether or not they have a disability. Today, it may be rather sprawling whether or not you are entitled to a pregnancy allowance. If you do not have that option, you can take parenting days before the child is born. We believe that the parenting days are actually intended to be used when the child is born to be with the newborn child. Madam President, I would like We also know that parental leave means a reduction in income and a reduction in pensions. We believe that compensation should be increased and that parental leave should be valued as work. In order to achieve this, we want, among other things, to increase the remuneration of parental insurance. An increase in the earnings-based ceiling would mean reaching a higher level of remuneration. Again, it is high time that we re-evaluate family policy and focus it on what it is intended for and give parents the opportunity to be at home with a good conscience at the beginning of family formation.
i-eded400aa1fab400-520	Madam President, I would like A family policy that equalises differences is a prerequisite for a more equal childhood. Unfortunately, such a policy shines with its absence in Sweden in 2019. Instead of financially pressured families with children, rich millionaires will receive a Christmas grant. The cheap Ebenezer Scrooge is no longer just a fictional Christmas story but a part of the reality that many families find themselves in before Christmas holidays. Thoughts about how the money should be enough for the Christmas gifts for the children create anxiety and anxiety. Some children come back from Christmas break and talk about new video games and other toys, others try to keep a low profile and bear the poverty of their family as a disgrace. This isn't worthy. Madam President, I would like But I don't want to give the most to those who already have the most. I can honestly say to you with the biggest fortunes: now you actually have to stand back – now it's ordinary people's turn! I want to focus on pensioners and families with children. That is what Stefan Löfven said in his Almedalstal 2018. Now a year later, the removal of the military tax is a fact. On the contrary, 6 billion people who could be of enormous benefit in providing better conditions for children in financially vulnerable families are already going to people who have everything. Madam President, I would like Reality looks like it does. There's gonna be bigger gaps and more poor people. The share of families living with low economic standards has increased from around 8 per cent in the early 2000s to 16 per cent in 2017. Leaving aside family policy efforts, this would be about a quarter of Swedish families with children – a quarter! Thus, the redistributive and poverty-reducing effect of family policies has been significantly reduced over time. Instead, Sweden has during the same time made sure to top the league in the fastest increasing number of new millionaires. Everyone knows it's the money's fault if someone says they can't keep up, but nobody talks about someone being poor we just solve it for each other. That's what a child in the Majblomman association says. Others think I'm weird. A comparison of income poverty between EU countries shows strong variations both before and after transfers. Sweden has gone from 5th place in 2007 to 13th place in 2017 regarding the importance of family policy at the level of income poverty. From the late 1990s, the redistributive effect of all social security schemes to families with children has almost halved. The biggest change is within the means-tested contributions. Of a total of SEK 80 billion in family economic policy in 2017, approximately SEK 8 billion is used as a redistribution between children's households, which corresponds to just under 10 per cent of the 2017 economic family policy. The Left Party believes that this trend must be reversed and that it is one of the most important issues in social security policy. One of the most important things about economic family policy is to create conditions for equal growth conditions for all children. The group that has been getting worse and worse in recent years are single parents. Eight out of ten of the single parents are women and have an economic standard that is worse than for cohabiting and single men. Single women with children have the lowest economic standard even with support in the form of child and housing allowance. Many have precarious employment and low incomes. Moreover, like other women, they often have part-time work. The reduction in disposable income from insurance and both general and means-tested benefits decreased most for single parents during these eight years. A large proportion of single mothers live in very scarce conditions and count the days until child benefit falls into the account. The Left Party therefore spent a great deal of time in the last parliamentary term improving and increasing maintenance support, for example, in several rounds and raising the housing allowance, which has led to improvements, not least for single parents. It is important for aid and compensation to follow other economic developments so as not to widen the gap Madam President, I would like Sharing responsibility for homes and children equally is one of the most important gender issues. A more balanced take-up of parental leave would increase women's income and health and make men responsible for home and children. All children have the right to a good relationship with both their parents. Today, mothers spend 80% of their parenting days during the first two years of their child's life. Together with the government, the Left Party drove 2016 through a third reserved month of parental insurance. An analysis by Försäkringskassan shows that the change has led to a more equal take-out of parental days. At the same time, the analysis shows that there is a long way to go to achieve a level playing field and that a more regulatory framework is necessary. The Left Party wants individualised parental insurance. A more equal withdrawal means that men take more responsibility for the care of sick children and for housework, which gives women the chance to better pensions and job opportunities. In addition, children have a better relationship with both their parents, which creates security. Madam President, I would like Much needs to be done to make Sweden more equal. Unfortunately, the government and the cooperation parties are moving in the opposite direction. With reference to the whole of our own budget motion for an equal Sweden, the Left Party will therefore abstain in the vote. Sweden needs more equality, not less.
i-eded400aa1fab400-536	Madam President, I would like People need community and working relationships in order to feel good and to be able to develop. Family is the most basic form of community. There people across generational boundaries meet in love and trust. It is this insight that is one of the cornerstones of Christian Democratic ideology. Families differ and look different. Core families, cohabiting couples, single people, reconstituted, same-sex families and other types of family formation should all receive the support of society that they need to work as well as possible and to make everyday life go together. This diversity requires family policy not to be based on what is considered best from a system and regulatory point of view. Instead, people must be placed at the centre of their lives and, in order to support all families in the situation in which they find themselves, policies must allow a great deal of flexibility and freedom of choice. Christian Democrats' policy aims to facilitate family formation, increase parents' opportunities to spend time with their children, strengthen families' finances and create better conditions to combine family life with work and career. But family policy is also important from a preventive point of view. Safe and well-functioning families are an important part of promoting good mental health among children and young people, good results at school and conditions to assert themselves in the labour market but also to curb exclusion and crime. Madam President, I would like I think most people know that we Christian Democrats are sure that it is the parents and not us politicians here in the Swedish Parliament who know what is best for their particular family when it comes to deciding who should be at home with the children. That is why we want free parental insurance without quotas. We also want guardians to be able to transfer their parental allowance days to relatives who do not live in the same household, such as grandparents or adult siblings. Not least, this would make life easier for single parents. Perhaps some also know that the so-called double days were introduced on the initiative of the Christian Democrats. These days are greatly appreciated, since parents are given the opportunity to be at home with their child. The reform has increased the withdrawal of days taken by fathers, not least fathers who rarely claim parental benefit. In addition, research shows that double days have very positive effects on women's physical and mental health. Today you have the right to take 30 double days during the child's first year. We Christian Democrats want to improve our reform by removing this deadline and letting parents decide for themselves how many days they want to take out at the same time. Madam President, I would like I think that perhaps fewer people are aware of the other reforms of the Christian Democrats concerning the financial security of families and children. I will therefore devote the rest of my speech to highlighting some of these. Housing allowance is the support that best reaches parents who live in financial vulnerability. More than 171,000 people received the housing allowance in December 2018. Of these, 80 per cent were children's households. Housing allowance is of great importance for single parents, especially for women. More than half of the housing allowance paid went to households where it was a woman who was the sole breadwinner. To support the most deprived families with children, we want to increase the child-related housing allowance by SEK 200 per month and children. The number of households with housing allowance has decreased since the late 1990s. One explanation is that income has risen while the income limits of the benefit have remained unchanged. We want more people to be able to take out full housing allowance and therefore propose that the income ceiling be raised by 30 000 SEK. Madam President, I would like As far as women's finances are concerned, today's old-age women generally have lower pensions than men. This is because women have a lower pensionable income than men, which in turn is mainly based on inequalities in the wage structure and that women have historically worked fewer years on average than men. Another factor is that women take a larger share of parental leave and often go down part-time when the children are young. Since 1999, the pension system has, thanks to a Christian Democratic initiative, a right to credit pension rights for so-called children's years. This means that up to four years can be counted as pensionable for those of the parents who have had a lower income due, among other things, to longer parental leave and part-time work. This reform has been important, especially because it strengthens women's pensions but also because it signals that caring for their children is an important contribution to society. Today, many women work part-time even after the child's fourth birthday. In order to further compensate parents who go down in working hours or are at home with sick children to a greater extent, which is usually also women, we want to increase the number of child rights years from four to five. In addition, we propose that the overall comparative income in children's rights years should be increased from 75% to 85% so that those with the lowest income receive a higher pension right. These are proposals that have also been put forward by the Pensions Authority. The Agency has estimated that these changes reduce the gap between men's and women's earnings to the general pension. Madam President, I would like According to a report from the Public Health Agency this year, only about 9 percent of the 15-year-old girls are active enough. According to the same report, both physical and mental ill health follow in the wake of sedentary sittings. We also see widespread loneliness among many children and young people. The annual report from the Foundation Friends shows that almost a quarter of students in grades 3 to 9 always, often or sometimes feel lonely at school. Many children testify in contact with organizations such as Bris that they feel that their parents or adults at school do not have time for them. Statistics from SCB on children's living conditions show that it is mainly children in economically vulnerable households, children of single parents, children of foreign-born parents and children of working-class households who have less active leisure time with less participation in organised leisure activities than other children. One explanation for this may be that children's leisure activities are often expensive. After all, children in financial vulnerability often feel a great responsibility for the family's finances. When they find that leisure activities compete with other needs in the household fund, many end up with their training or other leisure activities. This, Madam President, is a responsibility that no child should have to take. We Christian Democrats therefore believe that there is now a need for a broad reform that stimulates more children and young people to move and engage in associations, with a particular focus on those children who live in financial vulnerability. In our budget option, we therefore allocate approximately SEK 850 million per year to introduce a leisure card for all children in grade 2 to grade 9. The card will be loaded with financial support for participation fees in leadership-led activities in the Swedish association life and cultural school. The amount of support will vary according to the household's finances. Most children will receive SEK 500 in support per year, but children living in households in financial vulnerability, i.e. households receiving housing allowance or financial assistance, will receive much greater support. 2 400 SEK per year will be loaded on the card for these children. Through our leisure card, almost 1 million children will receive support for active and meaningful leisure time, of which the higher amount will be given to about 150 000 children. We see this as a very good investment in children's physical and mental health, but also in society at large, from a public health perspective. Madam President, I would like These were some of the reforms that we Christian Democrats have to strengthen the financial security of families and children. I would like to stress that the Christian Democrats' budgetary options should be seen as a whole. Since it is above the limits of the committee area, we choose to abstain in the form of reservations, but we obviously support all our proposals and also our specific opinion.
i-eded400aa1fab400-560	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Social Security Committee's report on Category 12, and I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Madam President, I would like Sweden is at the forefront when it comes to economic family policy, especially in relation to parental insurance, and we are a good example for many other countries. One of the reasons for this is that we dare to use the political tools that we have and that we are not afraid to modernise and monitor developments in society. Society is constantly evolving, and this changes the view of parenthood, family, gender and the rights of the child in the family. The legislation must also follow. We are proud of the steps taken by our feminist government to create a level playing field for everyone, regardless of the choice of partner and family constellation. Madam President, I would like The economic policy of the family shall contribute to smoothing the differences between families with children and contribute to a good economic standard of living for them. The starting point for social democratic family policy is that all children should have a good start in life, develop and be able to realize their dreams. Sweden is one of the world's best countries for children to grow up in. This is not a coincidence, but a consequence of hard work, awareness and political will. It is the result of a progressive, equal and equalizing family policy, generous parental insurance and a well-developed high-quality preschool that meets today's needs. Together with free maternity and child health care and general child benefits, it has improved, including for children. It is clear – we have all seen this – that gender equality is increasing through political will, and the steps we have seen in gender equality have come about by having an objective in view and quite a lot of political courage. It has not always been easy to challenge social standards with reforms that breathe the future. The same courage and political will are needed to further develop and modernise family policy today. It is important to continue to extend parental insurance so that it works for all family constellations – for the children's right to their parents but also for the parents' right to be able to take care of their children in a good and safe way. Madam President, I would like The general welfare of all, which helps to level economic conditions and improves the levelling of economic gaps, gives high legitimacy to the system itself. Some families with children, such as single women or newly arrived families, are at high risk of low economic standards. This is where politics comes in, Madam President. Politics is about will and priorities. It is possible to make life easier for people, and it is possible to create conditions for people to have an equal and equal society. Therefore, priority must be given to smoothing out the differences between people's wallets, opportunities and standards. If you work and pay taxes and contribute to the community, the community should also be there for you and your family when you need help. And if you are new to our community, you will get help and support to start establishing and contributing to the common. Madam President, I would like During the previous parliamentary term, the Social Democratic-led government carried out several important reforms as part of strengthening the economy of families with children and increasing gender equality. Some of these reforms were the abolition of child care allowance, increased the basic level of parental benefit, increased child benefit by SEK 200, increased child support, reformed child maintenance allowance and raised the income limit of housing allowance. This was the first increase in 20 years and has led to 18 000 more families with children receiving housing allowance. This is a need that we must meet and that we face. We introduced a new special allowance within the housing allowance for children living alternately with their parents. In December 2018, approximately 12,000 parents received the grant, of which 8 200 were women and 3,700 were men. We also raised the income limit for families with children and the housing allowance to improve for families with low economic standards. We reserved another month for each parent in the parental insurance in 2016. The introduction has led to a more equal set-aside. Madam President, I would like These were important steps towards a more equal society. A way forward is what we are working for. In addition to these important reforms, we have restored order in public finances and equipped Sweden for worse times. In the good years we have built up a welfare reserve by paying off on the national debt, and the sovereign debt ratio is now at its lowest level since 1977. There are 300 000 more people working thanks to this policy. We see this as positive. However, we need to have a strong welfare that takes care of our sick and elderly and our children by providing education and learning, which assists with housing, roads and public transport with more but also includes and helps those who have a difficult time in life. Welfare is about taking care of the common, and in this is also taking care of each other. We will continue to equip Sweden, and we will stick together Sweden. We will continue to create the conditions for societies where cohesion and security go hand in hand with people's freedoms and opportunities. Madam President, I would like More than one in three working parents says that each week they find it difficult to reconcile working life with family and leisure time. Every fourth parent indicates that they have no influence over the organisation of working time. Here we believe that many families with children are waiting for the family week to be introduced. It is a reform that aims to help with the puzzle of life and to get time for something as important as the family. We Social Democrats take note of parents' difficulty in combining working life with present and equal parenthood. Madam President, I would like When the parental insurance was designed, it was based on the idea of a core family with cohabiting parents. Therefore, we are pleased with the new law on parental insurance that makes it visible and makes it easier for more family constellations. Modern parental insurance is designed with the child's best interests in focus. Let us continue to be precisely this example that stands up for the children's right to a just, equal and good start in life. Because that's what every kid has a right to.
i-eded400aa1fab400-579	Madam President, I would like I need to ask you a question. I mentioned in my speech that the Social Democrats say that they are a vote for a stronger society. You should both be able to work full time and have children without putting a knot on yourself, and without going down in working hours. Linked to that is the introduction of family week. That would mean another three to five days for families to take out. Is that the answer to the thesis that says that you should be able to do everything at the same time, and that everyone should feel great at the same time? What kind of family policy do the Social Democrats intend to shape in order for all this to be possible at the same time?
i-eded400aa1fab400-581	Madam President, I would like As I mentioned at the beginning of the speech, we in Sweden have one of the world's most generous parental insurance policies. Parents can stay at home and take care of their children for many months. Family week is a solution to the puzzle of life that parents ask for. I can refer to the TCO report presented a few months ago. The working officials say that they do not have time for their children to be able to socialize with them. Family week will give them more opportunities and better opportunities to spend time with their children in their free time.
i-eded400aa1fab400-583	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Social Democrats are also beginning to realise that more time with the family is important. At the same time, parental allowance days have been limited. After the child turns four, you can only save 96 days. If it had been released, instead of limiting it, parents would have been able to use those days to a greater extent. I've been looking at your website. Under the heading More time for children, you write that you want to reach the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. How do you connect it to more time with the children?
i-eded400aa1fab400-585	Madam President, I would like We live in a modern society. Society sets requirements and conditions for our systems. One of the things that has made the Swedish labour market and the Swedish welfare society strong in the world is that we have more in work. It doesn't matter where you come from, what your background or education is. It is important that you are involved in working and contribute to developing the welfare society that we have. The family insurance we have today is one of the world's most modern and progressive. We intend to develop it so that more parents can use it.
i-eded400aa1fab400-588	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a good security system for parents. This means that when we have children we can be at home caring for our child for a fairly long period of time. We can decide in parts of the insurance which of the parents will take the parental leave. I think that's good. Housing allowance and child benefit are two additional positive security systems for families with children. For the Center Party it is important that the children get as good as possible. In most cases, they get it if they have access to their parents. In order to have a more equal take-out of parental insurance, we believe that we need to work more with information to parents about the value of the child spending time with his parents. But it is also a matter of showing that both parents are equally important when we make decisions. One example is when we appoint legal guardians. Madam President, I would like The Center Party wants a gender equality bonus in parental insurance, and we want to be able to share the parental days with two more adults. This would help to allow children to spend more time with their social parents even if they are not guardians. If we do, we open up more family constellations than the one that is still the norm, even if it is not the most common, namely married man and woman with a child. Housing allowance is an important allowance for very many families with the lowest income. That's something that's good. However, I hope that we will soon see monthly reconciliations at the Swedish Tax Agency regarding the right to the grant. This would make it easier for those who depend on the grant and reduce the number of people who are in debt because they have received an excessive housing allowance. The reconciliations take place today on a yearly basis. This means that if my income has increased during the latter part of the year, it may mean that my entitlement to the allowance will disappear at the beginning of the year. If you do it monthly, it'll be easier. I'm aware that there's an investigation going on to see how it works. But I wish it could get started pretty fast. In the case of divorced parents, the issue of housing allowance is an important one. In the event that a child lives alternately with his or her parents, the system functions satisfactorily. However, if the child lives more than 12 days a month with one parent, this affects the amount of the benefit. That is something that I think we need to look at. This creates further conflicts for those parents who already find it difficult to cooperate. In practice, this may mean that I am pushing my child to stay with me for more days for my own economy and not for the child's sake. This is something that I would like the government to review in the ongoing investigation into the housing allowance, which I have also exercised earlier this autumn. Madam President, I would like Those parents who have chosen to separate should primarily regulate maintenance support between themselves. That's something that's good. However, when for some reason they cannot, they are today assisted by Försäkringskassan with a maintenance allowance. If the payments have worked well for six months, the rule is that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency will step out of commission. It is possible that this should be the case. However, it is important that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency ensures that the regulation works in civil matters. In the case of parents who are already in conflict, the parent with a lower income may fall into the hands of the one with a higher income, who may use the money as a condition for dealing with the child. Here, too, we need to review the task of Försäkringskassan, so that already conflicted relationships between parents do not continue. During my first time in Parliament, I have focused quite a lot on issues of family law and disputing parents, and this is heard in my speech. In an infected conflict, many take measures to benefit themselves and perhaps forget the child's best interests. That is why I think it is so important that we look at the impact of social security on the parents who live apart, so that we do not have a conflict-driven regulatory framework. With this, I would like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-5L1Nwj56iRqRmJz7raBhsA	Madam President, I would like At the outset, I would like to support the proposal in the SfU3 report. Madam President, I would like Families with children can look in very many different ways, and they can have extremely different conditions. It is at the edge of the scale where what is sometimes referred to as normal – what now normally means in this context – lies in the middle that social security systems have to enter at their most and operate at their best. The parents of a child with a permanent illness or disability often need extensive contact with school or preschool, health care, the Social Insurance Agency and a number of other authorities. For everyday life to work as well as possible, parents often need to have contact with government officials very often. It can be about 50, 60, 70, 80 or sometimes as many as 90 different contacts to make everyday life work as well as possible. Any one of us can understand that this takes time and – above all – a tremendous amount of power. The Social Insurance Agency stopped granting temporary parental benefit in such situations a few years ago, which was actually originally intended for this support. For children who have been granted LSS support there are so-called contact days for this purpose, which is often put forward as an argument for withdrawing temporary parental benefit. But these, Madam President, have become difficult to use and more difficult to get. Generally, too few of them are awarded. In addition, there is also the need for many children who are not in LSS personal circles. We Liberals believe that these are examples of situations where temporary parental allowance should be available – examples of when the systems need to become more flexible and supportive. You actually have to see the whole thing in order for people's everyday lives to work. Madam President, I would like From 1 January 2019, the regulations for disability benefit and care allowance were changed, while the grants changed their name to additional costs and care allowance. These two aids are of an early origin in social security – it was previously called blindness benefit and was introduced already in the 1930s. Since then, a wide range of support and actions have been added, both in the field of disability policy and in the field of social security. Disability and care provision have been more or less a lubricant between a variety of other systems when it has collided and slipped in situations that the legislator was definitely unable to foresee but which could to some extent be overcome by means of additional costs. If aid is to retain its lubricant character, more flexibility needs to be introduced here too. We need to provide scope for support also in situations that we, as legislators, cannot anticipate when we still agree and make laws that are there to support and help citizens in different life situations. In connection with the transition to a new system in January this year, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's processing times have become very long – so long that there will be a gap, or void, in the system. There are also signs that it has generally become more difficult to get support in the new system than in the old one, which was definitely not the purpose of anyone in here when we made the decision. If the gap between old and new rules, processing times and other things is not dealt with quickly by the government, we in the committee must act on this issue and take the lead. In addition, the government must closely monitor the impact of the new regulatory frameworks and consider measures to maintain their intended function. It is clear, Madam President, that all parents should have the opportunity to combine employment and entrepreneurship with parenthood, regardless of the type of parenthood. This is where our systems must show flexibility and be permitting. Madam President, I would like The design of parental insurance plays a crucial role in the children's right to their parents but also in the development of gender equality in the Swedish labour market, as many of the previous speakers have mentioned. Basically, the emergence of parental insurance is an important part of Swedish welfare, as well as a foundation for women's liberation and for parental liberation. At the same time, today's insurance is associated with many challenges. The economic inequality between men and women is quite widespread, after all. To this, attitudes, mainstream gender roles and – sadly – a still very gender-segregated labour market contribute. It is also clear that women's relatively longer period of parental leave is hampering both wage development and career opportunities, which is not acceptable in 2019 and 2020. We Liberals see this, Madam President. We have been the driving force and initiator of reforms to change this regime, such as the earmarked months in parental insurance and the gender equality bonus. Liberals have proposals for a comprehensive reform of parental insurance that does not affect future budgetary work but which we will continue to work for. The temporary parental allowance – what is called vab – is important to enable guardians to refrain from gainful employment in order to care for sick children, to attend medical visits or other activities. However, there are a number of other situations where it would also be important for parents to be able to receive compensation to care for or support a child. This applies not least to functional families with a wide range of government contacts, and not least it applies to extra time for the education of children in preschool, school or whatever is required. Madam President, I would like Finally, children should be recognised, respected and protected as carriers of rights with an individual personality, personal needs and interests, and the right to privacy. This definition is taken from the UN Committee on Children's Rights's General Comment No 13. According to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which now becomes Swedish law, there is an obligation to work for the child to have his or her rights satisfied in each area of activity. We Liberals promise to continue this struggle. We shall continue to do good work in this House to ensure financial security for families and children.
i-eded400aa1fab400-615	Madam President, I would like It is often said that a society that is built and adapted for children and that is good for children is a society that is good for everyone. After the end of the year, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child – i.e. the Convention on the Rights of the Child – becomes part of Swedish legislation. That's very good. It's amazing. This is something that the Green Party has been fighting for for a very long time. We undertake to comply with the Convention in order to provide a basis for a child-right-based approach in all public activities and to make society child-friendly. The Green Party wants this child-friendly society. It is part of our overall view of society. But we also want the child's family friendly society, a society that is friendly about starting a family. It should be possible to start a family, to have children, without making great restrictions on life in general. Neither women nor men should end up outside or behind the labour market because they have chosen to have children. It should not weigh down the economy so that you cannot afford other expenses. Here it has a great responsibility in common. We have a long Swedish tradition that is very different from many other countries, and we will build on that. Economic family policy aims to provide the conditions necessary for families with children to have a good economic standard. It will reduce the differences between families with and without children, but it will also contribute to an equal society. This policy – with child benefit, with parental benefit, with the opportunity for both parents to stay at home for a long time with their children and with other types of support for those in need – rests on the idea of the Swedish welfare state, which has benefited Sweden for many decades. We should be proud of our well-being and our modern political history, but we must also cherish our heritage and take family policy into the future. Today's family policy must meet today's families and today's challenges. It is about equality at a time when gaps are increasing, about equality and about different family constellations. Save the Children has relatively recently shown in a report that many families with children in Sweden have had a much better financial situation in recent decades. That's very good, of course. However, the proportion of families living with low economic standards tends to increase alarmingly. It is about child poverty and growing gaps. With the Green Party in government, we have increased child benefit. It was welcome and, above all, makes it easier for families with children who are in the most difficult situation. We have adjusted the income limits so that more families with small margins can get help through housing allowance. That reform will continue and, when completed in 2021, 18 000 more families with children will receive housing allowance. Maintenance support has also been increased. Precisely these needs-tested support are important in order to make it easier for families with the least margin. We continue: The January agreement contains family week, which will make it easier for families with children to cope better with everyday life. You get more opportunities to get out of work to be with your children when they can't be in school. These are some important reforms, but we need to get back to work. Madam President, I would like In 2017, the report Equal parenthood and good growing-up conditions for children, a SOU that is still on the table waiting. It contains a series of good proposals to meet today's families with the needs and constellations that exist today. We need to implement those proposals. This is a more equal family policy in which men take greater responsibility and where there is an incentive for women as a group to take further steps in the labour market. Of course, it is quite unreasonable that women earn less than men. Care for the children is an important key to coping with it. We need to have an earlier take-over of parental leave so that more days are taken when the children are small but it still becomes so flexible that it can be used for children of a little older age. The investigation proposes a three-part insurance policy, and that's a good thing. Each parent receives one third each, and the last third is freely distributed. The Green Party broadly supports the investigation. However, we also have some further proposals, particularly with regard to the last third. Parental insurance shall be based on the needs of the children. A child should be entitled to his or her parents — to all his or her parents, even if they are more than two. The last third should therefore be able to be divided between parents or other adults who assume parental responsibility. So it should not be limited to married or cohabiting persons. In many families, more than two adults assume parental responsibility. Therefore, the parental code should be amended so that more than two adults who take parental responsibility can also be legally recognised as parents. Families look many different ways. We need an insurance system that meets it. We need flexibility in the system. We need a gender-neutral parental code. That's how we get a family policy in time. Madam President, I would like The budget proposal for 2020 is a good basis for the continued work of the child-friendly and child-friendly society. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-eded400aa1fab400-633	Madam President, I would like I want to start by admitting that I am not emotionally neutral when it comes to China. China is very close to my heart. I love hot baozi a chilly morning in Beijing. I love the spontaneous Taiji ceremonies that break out in parks and squares. I love the dignified calm that characterizes the people of China even in the most hectic and stressful situations. I moved to a small student apartment in Shanghai when I was 20 years old – 16 square meters, with a shared kitchen and a small, cold shower. It has influenced me since then, and China is and will always be like a second home. However, I am in no way blind to the authoritarian rule of the Communist Party or to the serious violations of human rights. There is an alarming reality behind the impressive skyscrapers. While China's amazing economic development has lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty, the gaps in the country have recently deepened and the rural population is lagging behind. In many Chinese villages there is not enough to eat. Access to clean water is limited and the electricity supply is shaky. Racism between the majority society and the country's minorities is widespread. The government's strong propaganda machine is visible throughout the country, and Chinese society is characterized by surveillance, control and fear. At one time market liberal thinkers believed that more capitalism would lead to the democratisation of China. Let's bury that theory once and for all. China is one of the clearest examples that it is not true. The country's many minorities can testify to that. Let me give you an example from Xinjiang. In China there are over 30 million Muslim Uighurs, a minority particularly hard hit by the regime's repression. With reference to counter-terrorism, Uighurs are imprisoned, disappeared and killed on a daily basis in Xinjiang. What's their crime? That they have beards, that they dress in a certain way, that they have too much food at home, that they greet with the phrase Salam aleikum, that they believe in their god and their identity – all are reasons enough to end up in an internment camp. It's about monitoring, m ass transfer and o msskolningscamps with over 1 million people in. We get reports of systematic rapes and Chinese officials moving in with Uighur families when the father is gone. The wife is now expected to share a bed with her oppressor. These are some of the most serious violations of universal human rights that are being committed today. Crimes are made possible by high-tech surveillance and systematic mapping of individuals into the smallest detail. Let us be clear: China is a one-party state without universal and free elections. Political opposition is not allowed at all. The judiciary is corrupt and governed entirely by the Communist Party. There is no freedom of expression, printing, meeting or religion. The media are used to control public opinion and the scope for civil society is limited. Chinese law provides for equal rights for women and men, but in practice major challenges remain, and family policy limits women's reproductive rights. Minorities are disproportionately severely punished in Xinjiang and Tibet. Trade union rights are in no way respected, and the number of executions is highest in the world. Madam President, I would like The fact that China is an important trading partner for Sweden and the EU does not need to be said. It's going both ways. China is the EU's second largest trading partner, and the EU is China's largest trading partner. Every day the EU and China trade with each other for over SEK 11⁄2 billion. Chinese direct investments in Sweden amounted to SEK 36 billion in 2018, which meant an increase of 186 percent since 2017. It is a trade relationship that, for us, is crucial but not reason enough for us to compromise with our values. Sweden must continue to press for the release of the Swedish citizen Gui Minhai. We must be a voice heard about the violations of human rights, the right to life and the right to health. But I don't lack hope. This year's events in Hong Kong have brought life to a democratic movement. The demonstrators express perfectly reasonable demands, and Sweden and the EU must put pressure on China to listen to them. Madam President, I would like In recent weeks we have witnessed an upsurge in tone from representatives of China against Sweden. It is unfortunate and counterproductive. The dialogue between Sweden and China must be good. It should not consist of threats and pressures. The fact that the political parties in the Swedish Parliament and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have been able to put party points aside and come together together in a united position is historic and a strength for Sweden in international contexts. I expect the same unity to be more marked by the European Union's actions. I expect the EU to stand up for each individual Member State faced with pressure from the Chinese regime. A united Europe is our strength. Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that the government is now setting up a national knowledge centre on China and efforts to increase knowledge of China in dialogue between authorities, municipalities, industry and civil society. Several of the global challenges can only be solved in conjunction with China, and this requires a broad, but never evasive, dialogue. It is our duty to stand up for human rights and freedoms in all contacts with China. The right to peace, freedom and justice must also apply to the world's most populous nation. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-eded400aa1fab400-652	Madam President, I would like A red lacquer box in a red lacquer box – it is not a speech exercise but an attempt at a parable. The government has presented a previous Moderates wanted China letter. To call it a strategy is perhaps to go well, but it contains some thoughts, formulations and suggestions that there is reason to take on board. These, in turn, have been processed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and are presented in the report that Parliament is now having to debate. In my opinion, the committee has, under great political agreement, taken care of the motions tabled by six parties with some fifty motions. The report itself is broader and better than the letter. If the government's text is the smaller lacquer box, it fits into the larger one, which is the text produced by Parliament through the members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Madam President, I would like Let us begin by defining what country we are going to debate: the People's Republic of China. The country has over 1 billion inhabitants and is a significant economy. It is an important trading partner and a scientific nation, but it is also an armamentist military power and the possessor of nuclear weapons. It is a partner in certain contexts and a challenger in others. But first of all, it is a one-party state. It is therefore completely impossible to determine where the Communist Party begins and ends in relation to military power, business, academia or the judiciary. Moreover, it is a one-party state in which the Communist Party in every way strengthens its grip and exercises greater control over its citizens than before. It's a high tech surveillance state. By 2030, for the first time in modern history, the world's largest economy will not be a democracy or even a real market economy. Nevertheless, we have never fully thought through Sweden's approach to this new China. It's time. China is a state-capitalist society in which the state and companies join each other. Political, economic and military tools are used to strengthen the influence of the Chinese state. China now spends as much on its military as the rest of Asia together. In 2015, China claimed that it would not militarise the South China Sea. Today, large areas are controlled by China, which has built artificial islands with clear military purposes completely contrary to international law and a ruling by the Arbitration Court in The Hague. China's influence over Europe is growing through purchased Greek ports and Hungarian bridges. Last year Mercedes-Benz made public prayer after the car giant published a picture with a quote of the Dalai Lama on Instagram. The new Silk Road one, Belt and Road, is the instrument for obtaining support. 17 countries in Europe, several within the EU, are now participating in this – for the individual nation certainly in the hope of money for investment and infrastructure. The aim of Beijing is certainly something quite different. Madam President, I would like All of this must have consequences for how Sweden and other Western countries relate to China, not least because it in turn affects how China will act against us. China cannot, in the long run, be allowed to act on our own ground rules. If Sweden does not have a well thought-out overall view of our relations with China, both we and the EU will make bad decisions. It is important that we act together. The Committee on Foreign Affairs' report marks political breadth here in Sweden. We need to show the same unity in Europe and act together with the US but also with countries geographically much closer to China such as South Korea, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. China has demonstrated its ability to rule by dividing and marking against one nation at a time. Arbitrary and day-form determine who is affected. That is why unity and joint action between Europe, the United States and friends in Asia are important. At the same time, something must be done to protect the control of democracies over their economies. Basically, it is a matter of principle that politicians should decide who owns, but we cannot allow nationalisation via Chinese takeovers. It is a question of protecting the foundations of our own prosperity. Industrial espionage and theft of knowledge risk impoverishing our companies and industry. Swedish authorities help and assist in connection with criminal activities or cyber attacks directed against Swedish interests. Here more can be done from the Swedish side. Madam President, I would like This is how you can go on. I am not saying this to give a unilateral negative picture of China, but the opposite. Millions have improved materially since Deng Xiaoping opened the door in 1978. I continue to believe more in conversations than in isolation. However, double standards are fundamentally unsustainable. A new Swedish approach to China is needed, which is also part of a common European strategy. For no single country will be able to match China's economic, political and military power. Madam President, I would like I have the privilege of having a very committed party leader on these issues. Ulf Kristersson is probably the individual politician in our country who most and best described and paid attention to what is happening in China and China's actions against others. He has highlighted different aspects in various articles, and the two of us have done so together. The Moderates therefore want to continue to point out some elements that need to be present for the future. The first part applies to equal rules. An important part of the trade with China, for example, in terms of trade and market access, is that it must be done on equal terms and conditions. We must pursue this issue together with the European countries. Otherwise, there is a risk that a country will stand up alone and be punished by China alone. The second part concerns foreign direct investment. A regulatory framework is needed to control and ultimately stop foreign direct investment in crucial Swedish infrastructure that can damage Swedish and European security. The Moderates have been demanding this for a long time. Now there's an investigation in place. That's good. Now it's time to see results. The third part is about preventing intellectual theft. Swedish companies have long warned against Chinese industrial espionage. Cloud Hopper is the most famous but far from the only case. We must protect Swedish industry in general and innovative tech companies in particular. The Moderates' proposal for a new cyber centre, with the FRA as its principal, would be an important step in strengthening the cyber security of both public and private actors and an important step towards better cooperation with other countries in the same vulnerable situation. The fourth part concerns cooperation on climate challenges. China today emits more carbon dioxide than the US and the EU does together. China's use of coal leads to more emissions than the joint emissions of coal from Europe, Africa and Latin America. The growing China will have a huge climate impact, especially in the light of the fact that Chinese energy investments both domestically and abroad are largely beneficial to fossil fuels. Sweden should therefore pursue environmental and climate issues in international fora and work towards green free trade agreements with China where effective climate action provides more favourable agreements. Sweden should also develop its bilateral cooperation with China in areas such as environmental research, renewable energy and sustainable forestry. The fifth part concerns human rights. Sweden should be a strong voice for fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights, both bilaterally towards China and in international fora. Sweden should be able to support, for example, activists working for democracy and gender equality in China and stand up for a rule-based world order within the framework of, for example, the EU, the WTO and the UN. Madam President, I would like China is the world's largest exporting country with 12 of the world's 100 most valued companies. We can't and shouldn't cut the ties. But Sweden, and Europe, must better protect our fundamental democratic, commercial and security interests. Madam President, I would like To talk today about China without touching the threats that have been hurled out against our country would be wrong. When the Chinese ambassador threatened the Swedish Minister of Culture when it came to awarding the Swedish PEN prize to the kidnapped and imprisoned Swedish publisher Gui Minhai, it was therefore an important demonstration that we all concluded. There and then the Minister of Culture was also my Minister of Culture. Several politicians were also present at the ceremony, including the party leaders of the Moderates. Nor can we tolerate attempts at silence in our country, which, when the UN agency UNDP chose to cancel at very short notice a celebration of 70 years of human rights because it would happen in connection with a distasteful photographic exhibition for China. Another example is when an annual celebration of Taiwan after telephone calls was moved from the hotel in Stockholm where this happened for several years under festive forms. Madam President, I would like When a red lacquer box is opened, there are many words in it on small notes: economy, cooperation, business, exchange and international trade. But there are also notes on which it says Gui Minhai, Uighurs in Xinjiang, one-party state, military power, Taiwan, the South China Sea and fighting democracy activists in Hong Kong. This makes the picture complex and multifaceted. It requires insight but also firmness and clarity from the Swedish side.
i-eded400aa1fab400-676	Madam President, I would like For me, the process of producing this report has somehow felt very personal, but also a little melancholy. I would like to start with a small reflection on China in general and then say a brief word about the report itself. The letter raises a number of very serious problems facing us by China, such as internal political problems such as the human rights situation of the Hui in Xinjiang and the dwindling democratic space in Hong Kong. We are also forced to realise that China's international influence will be very difficult to stop. Pressure on Taiwan is likely to continue to be high. China is also a harmful example for developing countries. Here in Europe, too, we cannot ignore the fact that China's growing international influence and power will pose challenges to our common security. What is particularly sad about all of this is that at one time I was absolutely convinced that these problems were on the way to their solution; the common future of Europe and China would mean a mutual relationship on equal and friendly terms. China would gradually adopt our view of the importance of individual rights, international tension and the rule-based world order. When I lived in China, 2007 to the beginning of 2009, it seemed that those hopes were coming true. For example, the Chinese government then carried out a reform of ownership which significantly strengthened the protection of private property. This made many foreigners feel comfortable buying their own home, for example. It was also quite obvious that the famous Chinese censorship was not what it once was. There was a great deal of transparency when it came to talking politics. You could even joke pretty well about political leaders. I know it is much more sensitive today. When I talk to acquaintances who still live there, I get the impression that most people have lost hope that China will be able to resume that development. Whether that pessimism is justified or not remains to be seen. Madam President, I would like I also want to try to nuance the image of China a little. When you discuss this type of letter, it is a little in the nature of the matter that the focus is easily on the negative. There are good reasons for that. To begin with, however, I would like to argue with emphasise that the Chinese Communist Party, in its confrontative action, is nowhere near having a majority of the Chinese people behind it. It is important to emphasise that. Although many Chinese reflexively support their government in international conflicts, when discussing person to person, it is important to understand that this is happening against a rather unpleasant ethnonationalism that has permeated all public life in China in recent decades. The Chinese government's narratives are largely based on an persecuted and colonised people who have risen out of poverty and oppression and are now about to regain their historically legitimate position. But if you scrape a little on the surface, you notice quite quickly that there is a dissatisfaction with the situation as it looks at the moment, especially the developments under the current leadership. This applies above all to corruption, lawlessness, which is a huge problem that is talked about far too little, the environment, which is hard hit, and the enormous social injustices. Political diversity is there, and the desire to have a more Western system is strong, especially in the younger generation. What must also be understood is the situation of the Chinese Government in a historical context. Looking at the current Chinese leadership and looking at it from a European perspective, it is clear that a government that behaves in the way it does is totally unacceptable. But China is not Europe. On the other hand, looking at Chinese history and its context, one realizes quite quickly that the present leadership is probably the most well-functioning, in any case compared to the present time China has had since, probably, the Tang Dynasty collapsed a thousand years ago. Göran Persson once made a statement that has become quite famous. For me, it is extremely striking what political stability means for economic development when one sees the Chinese example. It is very easy for us to make a little fun of the statement in retrospect. However, it is important to bear in mind that this is exactly the argument on which the Chinese Government's raison d'être is based. That is what they say every time they discuss politics: stability is our main objective. It is important to understand this. If you cannot really see how the Chinese themselves view the political context, it is also very difficult for us from the outside to try to do something about it. To conclude, I would like to stress my most honest hope that the Chinese Communist Party and the European Community can, in the not too distant future, begin to find their way back to each other again and make a reality of the ambition written over the entrance to the Forbidden City in Tiananmen Square. There it says: ah in ji e r e nm in n d a tu a nji e w a nsu i. Or: Long live the unity of the peoples of the world. I would also like to say a brief word about the report itself. I am, of course, pleased with the overall picture. It is great that the committee has been so responsive to the views of all parties. I cannot remember that any party has put forward something worthy of thought which has not since been included in the report, which is excellent. I'm glad we don't have any reservations. It also sends a clear signal to China, namely that when it comes to how Sweden should handle relations between our countries, there is a very strong democratic foundation. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the committee for its good cooperation and wish everyone a Merry Christmas.
i-eded400aa1fab400-692	Madam President, I would like I share Ludvig Aspling's praise to the committee. We have indeed made a very good report. I also share the view that all parties have been satisfied. Six parties have written motions, and several things put forward in them have been met in a very good way. I appreciate the historical context in which Ludvig Aspling puts China, Madam President. But maybe I think he took the statement on stability a little too lightly. It is indeed the case that the Government of Annika Strandhäll(S), that the Chinese power takes advantage of this. This is the raison d'être you want, that is, you represent stability. However, it is a stability that rests on prison camps, political repression, a high-tech surveillance society, the camps in Xinjiang province – the list can be made very long. Göran Persson, who was Prime Minister, did not simply and cheaply escape his statement on stability. It was almost a government crisis and a declaration of censure in the Swedish parliament. Madam President, I would like Ludvig Aspling concludes the speech with the hope that it will be better and that China will move towards the more normal land family, of which Sweden, the West and other parts are made up. Then I am somewhat curiously interested in what signs Ludvig Aspling sees that indicate this. Unfortunately, I can list several characters that are the opposite. China is increasingly coming out of this. It would be interesting to hear of something that could support the thesis that China is perhaps heading in the right direction, not the wrong direction.
i-eded400aa1fab400-696	Madam President, I would like First of all, I have to reject the claim that I take lightly the talk of stability. I have personally known students, Hans Wallmark, who have been kidnapped and tortured by the Chinese secret services because they have written things online that the government there does not like. This isn't something I take lightly. The reason I raised this was that it is important to understand the internal political context. It is also important to understand the conversation one between the Chinese government and the Chinese people. If we do not understand how they argue against their own people, we can never really be effective in our work to counter them. This is very important. But I certainly don't take this lightly. No one in this House should believe that. I would also like to point out that it is not a thesis that I am presenting, but a pure hope. The reason for the hope is that China is a personal matter for me. I have lived there for several years and think that in many ways it was a very interesting experience. At the same time, it was very disturbing. The very fact that the development was so positive during the period when I lived there meant that many might get a positive picture that was not fully motivated. Maybe I've been hit by it myself. So I did not present a thesis. Unfortunately, I do not see anything at present to suggest that relations will improve, but that is my hope.
i-eded400aa1fab400-700	Madam President, I would like I think there has been a value in the work of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that we have had Members with personal experience. Ludvig Aspling is one, and Aylin Fazelian is another. That's excellent. It has also added additional dimensions to our work and our conversations. That is why it is a good thing for Ludvig Aspling to answer my first question on stability with this clarification. There is no reason to go further on that. It is also good that he is clear that this is a hope. It can certainly be shared by many. There would have been other things about a thesis. Madam President, when we are discussing China in this House today, I choose to stick more to what I see than I hope. Unfortunately, much of what is now happening is going in the wrong direction. There is quite little one can say that could support Ludvig Aspling's hope. Anyone who can show the measures and steps in the right direction is welcome. It needs to be heard. But there is very little, in my view, at the moment to suggest that one can have the hope expressed by Ludvig Aspling.
i-eded400aa1fab400-704	Madam President, I would like We do not need to go into any semantic reasoning here in this House as to what the hope is. However, I fully agree with Mr Wallmark's reasoning. There is very little, perhaps nothing, to suggest that the situation there is about to improve. The only thing I can imagine when discussing in these terms is what has been. That's what I can see. But looking ahead, there is no indication that the situation will improve. The hope that I still have to answer for is probably not going to give up. I have many positive memories. I have friends who live there, both Chinese and foreigners. As long as I have it and as long as I'm in contact with people there, I'll probably try to keep this hope alive.
i-eded400aa1fab400-707	Madam President, I would like This year we note that it has been 100 years since the Riksdag decided on universal and equal voting rights in Sweden. In China it has been celebrated that it was 70 years since the takeover of power by the Communist Party. When we celebrate in 2021 that it is 100 years since the first election was held after the introduction of universal and equal suffrage, China celebrates that it has been 100 years since the Communist Party was formed. When we celebrate this year that it is 30 years since the fall of the Berlin Wall, when people who dreamed of freedom from the oppression of Communism literally tore it down, all the expressions of opinion in China that would remind us that it was 30 years since the Tiananmen Square massacre took place. Tanks were literally mowing people down. The dream of millions of Chinese citizens who demonstrated for freedom was killed – in any case, though not forever. We see that democracy works well in Taiwan. We know that it has worked well in Hong Kong, where millions of people have fought since June to maintain their democratic rights and freedoms, guaranteed in the 1997 agreement between China and the United Kingdom on a country with two systems. This agreement is now being challenged. The signal from the Chinese leadership that there should be only one China to the 100th anniversary of the Communist Party's takeover of power in 2049 is as alarming as clear. The Foreign Affairs Committee is united. We condemn disproportionate violence and support several of the demands made for the protection of democracy and the rights and freedoms guaranteed by the Hong Kong Constitution. Equally clear are we that the free elections that will soon be held in Taiwan should be respected and that China should stay away from them. Madam President, I would like Of course, we respect the right of the Chinese people to freedom and the right to rule themselves. We also see that it has never been given that opportunity. We long hoped that the opening of China over a period of time and the inclusion in several multilateral organisations would create opportunities for such freedom for the Chinese people. We hoped that China intended not only to support but actually to comply with the rules and values on which all these organisations and systems were based, not to develop into the infamous Trojan horse for the Communist Party's ambitions of power not only in China but also globally. Today we know that the current leadership wants to achieve objectives other than those we jointly developed after World War II. Over the past eight years, the Communist Party's claims for power and leadership have been united in an increased repression of dissidents, increasing supervision of citizens, imprisonments and abductions, yes, even murder. The detention camps built in Xinjiang are clear proof of the flagrant violations of fundamental human rights by the Communist Party. 1 – 2 million Uighurs are forced into detention and brainwashed. They're supposed to wipe out their identity and be re-trained, as they say. Of course we don't have access to these camps. It's not transparent. It's not open. There is no possibility here for the UN to go in and review. But time will come. In this respect, there is reason to be open to sanctions policy in relation to human rights abuses. The stories from Xinjiang are many, and they partly reflect what Tibetans have experienced in the past and are experiencing even now. The Tibetans have long been persecuted. It has even gone so far that we are more or less threatened when we want meetings with representatives of Tibetans here in Parliament's premises, Madam President. That is not acceptable. Madam President, I would like When our Swedish-Chinese citizen Gui Minhai was kidnapped in Thailand and taken to China, it was obvious for us to demand his release. When he is imprisoned without any possibility of contact with family, consular access, medical contact, and so on, we criticise it. When he is shown on Chinese television as a forced-incarcer, we do not hesitate to criticise China's actions. When an independent organisation in Sweden, the Swedish PEN, awards the Tucholsky Prize for imprisoned authors of Gui Minhai and is threatened, when even leading politicians are threatened, when Sweden is threatened if we participate and stand up for the Swedish PEN's right to award the prize, then we stand up together. We stand up for free speech, against attempts to silence it. The whole of Sweden was behind it. When the Right Livelihood Foundation presented its award to Guo Jianmei for her human rights struggle for women's rights and women's freedom in China, we were also there, but unfortunately she was not. She was not allowed to leave China to receive the alternative Nobel Prize. Madam President, I would like It is an aggressive China that we are seeing today, a China that engages in everything from panda to debt diplomacy, a China that talks about our universal values and celebrates multilateral bodies but means something quite different. They are to be used to transform them into the perspective of the Chinese Communist Party, or as many say: yes, human rights, but with a Chinese perspective. We can see their actions in the various UN bodies. The UNDP and its threatened meeting here in Stockholm have been mentioned before. In the WTO system it is visible. We also see this in the Paris Agenda and in climate management. It becomes visible in the Belt and Road initiative, which is basically developed as a driving line for the global vision that the Communist Party has established. Today's China is not a transparent, transparent and credible China that lives up to a level playing field. When the Chinese state-owned investment company SDIC came to Sweden a few months ago to look for high-tech companies to invest in, they did so because there is a pronounced will from the leadership of the Communist Party. They shall deliver in accordance with a target for China in 2025 decided by the Party and its leaders. We know that they are on technology to build the goal of the Communist Party: a more dominant China or perhaps even the dominant state power of China. Madam President, I would like Sweden – we all – has to do with a system rivalry. We are clear about this in our report. It is a good thing that the European Union also made this clear in its communication last spring. This requires that we urgently take steps in the EU but also with like-minded people outside the EU, with developing countries and, of course, at home in Sweden. Sweden should not be or become a test bed, as China wants to see in the West. We need to strengthen our legislation and secure strategic functions and competences widely at all levels in Sweden. Knowledge centres are good, but clarity is needed in terms of security policy focus, at least as we see it. There we intend to follow the matter further. The screening capabilities under investigation must be speeded up and, in our opinion, be in place earlier than 2021, when the investigation is due to be completed at the latest. Next year would be good as a level of ambition. Madam President, I would like We will see opportunities in cooperation but on equal terms. We never threaten. We are a small country that stands up for our values, which we see as universal. With that, Madam President, I would also like to emphasise the value of the joint report that the committee is putting on the table of Parliament. I support the committee's proposal and refer to our motion and our specific opinion.
i-eded400aa1fab400-724	Madam President, I would like Let's start at the positive end. It is really good that the government has produced a letter about the work on issues relating to China. It clarifies the government's position and view of China, it increases the general knowledge and competence of China and it creates debate between the political parties about China. All this is very good. Linked to the letter, it is also good that the government invests resources and creates a centre of knowledge about China. It gathers the expertise that exists today and equips Sweden stronger for the future. I think there is a point in implementing the initiative through an increased Nordic collaboration in the area. As far as China is concerned, the need to speak clearly is something that recurs. Sweden must always be a strong voice that puts human rights ahead of economic interests. China is a one-party state, a dictatorship in which violations of democratic freedoms and rights are widespread. China is also the country in the world that uses the death penalty to the greatest extent. In Reporters Without Borders' Freedom of the Press Index, China will be ranked 177 out of 180 in 2019. Since the Congress of the Communist Party in autumn 2017, the party has a declared ambition to increase its control over all parts of society. Leader Xi Jinping is now elevated to the highest leader alongside Mao Zedong. The long-term plan for China is to be the world's great power number one year 2049 or earlier. The government's letter has many merits in its description of China. But when it comes to which strategies to use, you are more unclear. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report, we set out a number of things much more clearly than the government does in its letter. The fact that the Committee on Foreign Affairs is fully united in its positions is a strength. It sends a signal to China and its Embassy here in Sweden that Sweden never hesitates to criticise human rights violations. Our political debate is part of our strength. It creates dynamism but also unity in our demands. We'll never fold. Compared to the government's letter, the Foreign Affairs Committee is much clearer about Hong Kong. We state that the protestors' demands are legitimate. The committee notes that Hong Kong has a special status as a special administrative region within China under an agreement concluded between China and the United Kingdom. One country, two systems are the established principle on which Hong Kong's autonomy is based. The committee condemns the disproportionate brutality and violence used by the police against demonstrators in Hong Kong. The protesters have voiced several demands: the release of the demonstrators arrested and not the stamp of insurgency; the creation of an independent committee to investigate the widespread use of force by the police during the protests; and universal suffrage in free and fair elections. The committee supports these demands and will continue to support Hong Kong's self-governing position. Since last autumn we have been reached by reports from the Chinese sub-republic of Xinjiang – or East Turkestan as the Uighurs call their area. It is estimated that 1 million people, mainly from the Muslim community of Uighurs, have been imprisoned in what the government calls educational centers. Human rights organisations describe them rather as retraining or internment camps. The Uighurs are subject to massive surveillance in the region, both physically and digitally. In the re-education camps, they are subjected to torture, according to human rights organisations. The criticism of human rights organisations against China's treatment of the Uighurs is strong. However, the international community has so far acted rather cautiously and the serious and widespread abuse has had few and few consequences. When the United States recently introduced visa sanctions for Chinese officials involved in the retraining camps in Xinjiang and their family members, it was one of the few exceptions. It is therefore good that the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on the initiative of the Left Party, argues that Sweden should act within the EU to put pressure on China to immediately stop the abuse of Uighurs and that Sweden should work to ensure that the EU imposes sanctions on China, which should be linked to the demands for China to end the abuse of Uighurs. This is what the Parliament today calls on the government to do. Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde! We are giving you today an important baton to hand over in Brussels so that this will be heard by the rulers of Beijing and Xinjiang. In October 2015, Swedish publisher Gui Minhai was kidnapped by Chinese agents in his holiday home in Thailand. He then ran a successful publishing and bookstore business in Hong Kong specialized in satir books on Chinese politicians' everyday lives. It was too sensitive for the dictatorship, and in January 2016 Gui Minhai appeared in state television with a forced recognition of a 13-year-old crime. Gui Minhai has now been in prison for four years. Today, he shows symptoms of ALS and is in great need of medical attention. The Swedish Government has not done enough to get him released, as the Left Party has criticised on several occasions. The tours around Sweden's former ambassador to China, Anna Lindstedt, who is now charged with crimes for his actions at the meeting on Gui Minhai at Hotel Sheraton in Stockholm, raise questions about how the government is actually working to get Gui Minhai released. Madam President, I would like On Wednesday, therefore, I chose to register the former Minister for Foreign Affairs, Margot Wallström. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is primarily responsible for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and thus responsible for all activities and governance of the Ministry. Minister for Foreign Affairs Wallström and Cabinet Secretary Söder have stated on the Foreign Affairs Committee that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs lacked knowledge of both the meeting and the ambassador's presence in Sweden. It is a matter of doubt, not least because the media's ex post review revealed that the ambassador was in Sweden. Against this background, the Constitutional Committee should examine former Foreign Minister Wallström's knowledge of the events and her actions and governance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on this basis. A KU notification can either show that everything went right or that there is reason to criticise the Ministry for Foreign Affairs' political leadership. Madam President, I would like How many people are executed in China every year is a state secret. According to the Dui Hua Foundation, approximately 2,000 people were executed in 2018, and the death penalty can be imposed for 46 different crimes. Furthermore, the number of Uighurs executed has increased. The committee condemns the use of the death penalty and stresses that the abolition of the death penalty is a priority in Swedish foreign policy. The Left Party is critical that the government does not describe in the letter how it intends to counteract China's use of the death penalty. The Left Party believes that a Swedish government in any form of contact with China should demand a halt to the use of the death penalty. China is today the world's second largest market for organ transplants. Organ trafficking is a lucrative industry. A person's vital organs can be sold for a total of about half a million dollars. After massive criticism from the outside world, the regime claims that organ theft is no longer taking place, but according to several experts in the field, organ theft continues, especially from the oppressed minorities. The government does not mention the issue of organ theft in its letter, which I am critical of. Sweden should promote the establishment of an international investigation into organ theft reports in China. The Chinese Constitution guarantees equal rights for men and women, but in reality there are major challenges. Women are under-represented in politics and business, and violence against women occurs in all walks of life. In 2016, a survey by the Chinese Women's Association revealed that about 30 percent of all women who were married or in a relationship had been victims of violence in close relationships. Women's reproductive health and rights are limited by family planning policies. One child policy has been replaced by two child policy. In practice, family planning policies combined with patriarchal values lead to the birth of far more boys than girls. According to official figures, there are 32 million more men than women in China. The fact that the Swedish feminist government, which was the first in the world to pursue a feminist foreign policy, hardly mentions women's rights or gender equality in its China strategy is regrettable. Feminism must have a clearer place in Swedish foreign policy, even when we talk about China. The World Trade Union ranks in the Global Rights Index the world's countries based on working conditions and trade union rights. Countries are ranked on a scale between 1 and 5, where 5 is the worst. China is rated 5, which means that there are no guarantees for trade union rights. China has ratified four of the ILO's eight core conventions, but not the conventions on forced labour and freedom of organisation. The only trade union organisation that is allowed to work openly in China is that which is linked to the state apparatus. Its statutes say that the task is to be a bridge between the working masses and the Communist Party. In practice, this means that when a conflict arises between workers and parties, the union takes the side of the party. The leaders of the trade union are usually appointed by the party, and there is also the presence of managers at the workplace in the leadership of the trade unions. Collective agreements exist but are rarely applied in practice, and there is no legal right to strike. In strikes, it is the union's role to try to motivate employees to stop strike and return to work. The government does not mention trade union rights or labour law in its letter. For me, it is quite incomprehensible that a social democratic government, which has had the global deal as its foreign policy flagship, does not address the wide-ranging shortcomings in trade union rights in China. While Western countries criticise the Chinese state for human rights abuses, Western companies are often opposed to the legislative changes that would improve the situation of workers. Legislative changes that have strengthened workers' rights are often met with great criticism from foreign companies. A large part of the world's production takes place in China, and many Swedish companies buy products manufactured in Chinese factories. This applies, among other things, to cheap jewellery with semi-precious stones and glass, and the risks involved in this activity are well known. The workers lack proper protection from dust, which enters the lungs and destroys the tissue. In many cases this leads to premature death. Too many Swedish importers prioritise low production costs over environmental considerations and conditions for employees. If the work environment looked like that in Sweden, the factory would probably be immediately closed. However, in the contacts that the Swedish government has had with China, the focus is rarely on the role of companies for human rights. There is a tendency to distinguish between political and economic contacts. The Left Party believes that it is not possible to distinguish trade and investment issues from human rights work and that it is important to highlight this work. In the government's export strategy, 26 states are identified as priorities, and China is one of them. It justifies the drive towards China and other states with a lack of respect for human rights by the fact that trade can get closer and that it leads to democratisation. It was interesting when Aylin Fazelian of the Social Democrats dismissed it, because it remains clearly in the export strategy that the government presented three years ago. China is the clear example that that road does not work. One way to get companies to highlight working conditions is to sign global framework agreements. They act as a kind of global, collective union agreement with the aim of laying a common floor for all workplaces and subcontractors linked to a group. The idea is that these conditions must never be broken within the Group, regardless of where the business is conducted. The Swedish government should work to ensure that Swedish multinational companies operating in China sign these global framework agreements, so that it is possible to cap working hours and set the wages to apply and protect workers from injuries and diseases. China's ambassador to Sweden, Gui Congyo, is a rather strange figure. Since he took office, he uses the embassy's statements as a way of trying to change and correct Swedish statements about China by politicians like myself, as well as by journalists and comedians. A month ago he went one step further and tried to stop the government's participation in the Swedish PEN's award of the Tucholsky Prize to publisher Gui Minhai. The committee welcomes the cross-party political unity that was manifested in the prize-gathering. In addition, China is seriously opposed to the exercise of freedom of expression and assembly in Sweden by individuals as well as organisations criticising Chinese relations. The Left Party wants to go one step further. We demand that China's ambassador in Sweden, Gui Congyou, be declared persona non grata. He should therefore no longer be allowed to act as an ambassador in Sweden after trying to threaten the Swedish government to silence. Freedom of expression is a constitutional right in Sweden. To actively work to reduce it is a very inappropriate behaviour from the Chinese ambassador in Sweden. Having said that, I would like to support the proposal of the Swedish Parliament's Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs.
i-eded400aa1fab400-759	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report on the government's letter concerning relations with China. Developments in China are deeply worrying. As a result of a pronounced policy, the power of the Communist Party is strengthened at the expense of people's freedom and democratic reforms. Public and free elections shine with their absence, independent justice and free media do not exist and human rights are violated. In recent times, religious persecution of Christians and Muslims has intensified. According to the UN, in Xinjiang province 1 million Uighurs are placed in detention camps where torture, sexual abuse and brainwashing are used to force loyalty to the Communist Party. The Christian Democrats condemn this in the strongest possible terms. What is going on is a violation of international humanitarian law. It's disgusting. Unfortunately, the Chinese regime's claim for power and lack of respect for human rights also extends beyond the borders of its own country. In Sweden, the Swedish Security Service reports an increase in Chinese intelligence and espionage. Swedish media are subject to accusations and pressure from Chinese diplomats. Attempts are made to silence Angela Gui, daughter of Swedish publisher Gui Minhai, innocently imprisoned in China since 2015. Overall, this is an act that strengthens the image of China as a dictatorship without respect for the integrity of individuals and the independence of nations. Regrettably, some Chinese diplomatic representatives are in line with this, and one of them is – as has been mentioned – the Stockholm Ambassador Gui Congyou. His attempt to stop the Swedish Minister of Culture's presence at the award of the Tucholsky Prize is unprecedented and crosses all the borders of diplomatic association. The threats of countermeasures and consequences in the form of deteriorating trade relations are telling, not for the actions of the Swedish Government, but for the Chinese regime's view of freedom of expression and democracy. Should the government, in the light of what has happened, declare the Chinese ambassador undesirable in Sweden, the Christian Democrats would welcome it. Madam President, I would like China is the world's second largest trading nation and Sweden's largest trading partner in Asia. What happens in China affects the Swedish economy and Swedish trade. This affects the competitiveness of Swedish companies and the ability to achieve the objectives of climate policy. While we are observing this, it has to be said that we can never give in to Chinese threats or pressure. When human dignity is violated, it is our right, but also our duty, to raise our voices. Values based on freedom, democracy and the rule of law are not negotiable. Sweden's starting point in its relationship with China should therefore be to affirm and welcome trade, but not at the price of Swedish security interests and human rights. Unfortunately, from time to time, the government has failed to strike a balance between trade cooperation and plain language when it comes to human rights violations. This is a difficult balance, but nevertheless it is possible to draw conclusions from the almost unconditional trade agreements that have been concluded with Iran and Cuba. These agreements have not led to a better human rights situation; on the contrary, the situation has deteriorated. Madam President, I would like China's defence spending is today the second largest in the world. The armed forces have been reassigned to protect more effectively what is known as Chinese interests abroad. At the same time, China's military cooperation with Russia is strengthened, and its common strategic interest in the Arctic is increasing. This has consequences for the United States and also for Europe. A priority task in the area of security policy is therefore to strengthen the transatlantic link. While Europe is taking a greater share of responsibility for its own security, it is in conjunction with the US that new Chinese challenges need to be met. This applies in the area of security policy, but it also applies in the defence of free trade and democratic values. The popular protests in Hong Kong show that international political and diplomatic support is necessary to maintain the principle of one country, two systems. In order to preserve Hong Kong's right to self-determination, to defend Hong Kong's right to freedom, the EU and the United States must act jointly against the Chinese regime. This also applies in relation to Taiwan, which is de facto a state and has good relations with the EU and Sweden. With Taiwan, we share fundamental democratic values. This means that the cooperation should be further deepened through a bilateral investment agreement and by Sweden actively promoting increased Taiwanese participation in international contexts. It is possible to make a difference when free and democratic states join forces and act together. Madam President, I would like China is also a great power economically. Gigantic resources are being invested in research and development, innovation and new technologies – all to strengthen the influence of the Communist Party. Sweden shall have good trade relations with China. At the same time, it is clear that we must better protect sensitive technologies and communication. Risk assessment analyses of 5G remain important. The possibility of stopping direct investment in digital infrastructure or other socially important facilities must exist if the investments are deemed to harm Swedish security interests. Sweden has an interest in the EU and other countries reaching as much as possible agreement on this and other important issues concerning China. Now there is a realistic strategy for this work. The Christian Democrats welcome the government's letter as well as the national centre of knowledge about China that is now to be established. Not least, we welcome the broad agreement and cooperation on this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Hopefully, through this work, we will have an in-depth discussion on Sweden's and the EU's approach to the China that is now emerging.
i-eded400aa1fab400-775	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to be approved. According to information, the Chinese ambassador in Stockholm during the previous year has been named 40 times to our Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The reason is that China has greatly increased its efforts to influence Sweden's social development. China has expanded its international claims in recent years, and the state has strengthened its control over its media, people's privacy and Chinese companies. I am liberal, and I am convinced that international exchange, globalisation and mobility bring about positive developments in the world. It increases our prosperity, broadens our horizons and provides greater opportunities for the individual. I think it is against this background that many have long wanted to see the rapprochement with China as something positive. Of course, we should be in favour of China's economic growth and hundreds of millions of Chinese have increased their standard of living. China is at the very heart of world trade and investment. But this development also has another side. China is a dictatorship and a one-party state. The Communist Party is holding the population in an iron grip. The Chinese regime has authoritarian ambitions that extend far beyond China's borders and increasingly shift its growing economic strength into increased political power in the world. When China is the world's largest economy, it means that for the rest of our lives we will probably have to deal with the fact that the world's economic superpower is no longer a democracy. That is precisely why, Madam President, it is so important that Sweden and the European Union have a strategy for how to relate to China. It is about maintaining trade and exchange but at the same time safeguarding our critical infrastructure, our free society and our free climate of opinion and not hesitate to criticise China when it violates human rights. Madam President, I would like There is a Chinese democracy today – it's called Taiwan. Since a few decades ago, Taiwan has seen a remarkable positive development in terms of both the economy and democracy. Taiwan is a dynamic vibrant democracy with regular elections and strong protection of individual rights. Taiwan is also today one of the few countries in Asia with a elected female liberal president – Tsai Ing-Ing-wen. But Taiwan is constantly living under the threat of being swallowed by China. When you see how China is gradually trying to stifle freedom in Hong Kong, you have to be aware that in the future the same thing could happen to Taiwan. China is also using its economic influence to induce other countries to withdraw aid to Taiwan. This happened recently in the case of Solomon Islands and Kiribati. Anyone who wonders about China's intentions, I urge you to go to Hong Kong. The Chinese unwillingness to respect Hong Kong's democracy, the autonomy of the region and the agreements entered into clearly demonstrates the uninterest the Chinese regime has in any social model other than its own communist dictatorship. Anyone who is still uncertain can witness what is happening in Xinjiang in north-west China, where as many as 1 million Uighurs have been deported to so-called retraining camps, or the persecution of Tibetans and the colonisation of Tibet that has been going on for decades. The Chinese Security Act means that Chinese citizens may be forced to report information required by Chinese authorities. This means that Chinese companies or students can leak sensitive information from the EU to China, something about which the Security Service has sounded the alarm. Through its economic muscles, China is gaining political influence. This becomes painfully clear in the case of Gui Minhai. China is now threatening to restrict exchanges with Sweden. This could have major negative consequences, both for the common people and for our business community. This action is, of course, totally unacceptable. Madam President, I would like In 2016, the European Union developed a common strategy towards China – that is a good thing. The Liberal view is that together within the European Union we have greater opportunities to influence than each individual. Despite the fact that the strategy was reinforced by new directives, it can be noted that China's actions represent a greater challenge today compared to 2016, when the strategy came. Liberals therefore believe that the EU needs to develop a new strategy that meets the societal challenges that the EU is now facing, in particular linked to Chinese advocacy. It is most welcome that the committee agrees with this. Another important issue concerns foreign direct investment in areas worthy of protection in the EU. To date, 14 European countries have introduced so-called national screenings and announced risky investments to the European Commission. Sweden has not yet announced any risky investment, but legislative proposals are currently under investigation. Liberals welcome the broad support in the Foreign Affairs Committee to strengthen the protection of sensitive Swedish infrastructure. Madam President, I would like Finally, Sweden's relationship with China will shape our foreign policy for a long time to come. It is therefore reassuring that support for a single Swedish line, supported by other EU countries, has a broad majority in the Swedish Parliament.
i-eded400aa1fab400-795	Madam President, I would like China is a fantastic country, with its nature and its interesting and cultural history. Sweden's relations with China go back a long way, and China is today Sweden's largest trading partner in Asia. Developments in the country are of great importance to Sweden and the EU as well as the rest of the world. The letter we are debating today sets out five key elements for Sweden's approach to China. That politics should always be based on Swedish and EU common interests and values in the relationship with China is an important starting point; this must be clear. The letter also says that we should take advantage of the opportunities that China's development offers and deal with the challenges facing us. It is also clear that China can be both a threat and an opportunity. We will increase collaboration on issues related to China between public, business and civil society. More people need to know and discuss what the starting points are and what different decisions can mean. The letter also states that stronger EU cooperation on issues related to China is needed. The basis of Sweden's policy towards China is the policy that we are pursuing jointly in the EU. It is when the European Union has a common policy that we have a unique condition of being a constructive party to China – a China that has come out of isolation and turns towards the world with increased economic exchange but does not allow economic liberalisation to be followed by political, but rather vice versa. The final point is that knowledge of Chinese conditions should be strengthened. Knowledge, as we all know, is a prerequisite for being able to act properly in a complex world. It has long been clear that Sweden's knowledge of China needs to be strengthened. Now the government is investing in setting up a national centre for China. Our expertise in this area needs to be increased, and through the Centre all social actors will have better access to knowledge about the development that is taking place in the country and how Sweden will relate to it. Madam President, I would like Sweden, the EU and the rest of the world also have an obligation to react and act against the repression and restrictions of human rights in China. Particularly serious is that the judicial system is governed by the Communist Party, with the death penalty and the complete absence of democracy. Throughout the country you can see how people have no opportunity to live free lives. Particularly worrying are developments in Xinjiang Province and the situation of the country's Muslim Uighurs. People are being sent to re-education camps, and we are being reached time and again by reports that reveal the atrocious conditions there. China's internet is closed to the outside world and is used to monitor its citizens. We see a shrinking space for Chinese civil society. The conditions and conditions for different organisations are tightened. This has a major impact on society and the population as a whole. A country depends on its civil society in order to move forward. The free word is a basis for a society that is for everyone. The development of freedom of expression in China has in many ways gone backwards in recent years, and it is of the utmost importance that the outside world puts pressure on the Chinese regime. Courageous people in the country risk their lives for the freedom of expression of their own and others. One of them is the Swede Gui Minhai. Since 2015, he has been imprisoned in China without trial. Sweden has made great efforts to release him and be able to reunite with his family. We will continue to do so. It is also very serious and remarkable that China is now interfering and trying to silence voices for freedom of expression here in Sweden too. To threaten with sanctions when a Swedish minister awards a Swedish prize in Sweden is totally unacceptable. I share the view expressed by many here earlier today that it was a good thing that we stood up unanimously and said that this is not acceptable. We also support those who are demonstrating in Hong Kong – those who are afraid that China will break the agreement that exists on one country, two systems. Madam President, I would like The climate is the destiny of our time; we often say that. The issue is global, but every discharge takes place locally. Solutions to the climate crisis must be found at a cross-border level and the objectives of the Paris Agreement need to be translated into action. Here, a great responsibility rests with each individual country. China currently accounts for 27% of the world's total emissions. Great progress has been made in recent years when it comes to the country's expansion of fossil-free energy, but much more needs to be done. While coal power is declining at an ever-increasing rate in the EU, it is being built out in China. China is also investing heavily in fossil fuels abroad. Research reports show that if China goes ahead with all its plans for fossil investment within the Belt and Road Initiative, it will be almost impossible to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. We cannot accept that. Sweden and the European Union must put pressure on China and the United States and continue to lead the way so that the three largest economies in the world together ensure that the objectives of the Paris Agreement are achieved. The world can choose the future of our children. It is a failure that CO2 emissions still increase at such a rapid rate when they need to decrease instead. This will put our feet off in the future. But now we're in a position where we can still choose. Developments in Asia have shown that it is possible to give large parts of the earth's population a much better life in quite a short time. Thanks to stubborn work by environmental movements and far-sighted states and companies, we can now produce large amounts of electricity with wind and sun. Thanks to new batteries, we can choose not to drive our cars on oil, and thanks to digitalisation we can choose to travel smarter and use natural resources more efficiently than ever. But this requires that we choose consciously. And that is what Sweden is doing in the new export strategy that has been presented today. Export and trade policy shall be free, fair and sustainable. It shall meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement and the Sustainable Development Goals of Agenda 2030. Sweden shall not provide loans that contribute to the extraction of fossil energy. China must do the same. Capital should be invested so that it gives a better future, not a worse one. Madam President, I would like The path that China chooses to take will in many ways determine the future both for us and for future generations, no matter where on earth we live. Like us, China now has access to all knowledge of what is required for our children to live a life of security and well-being as free people with equal rights. China is in many ways a great country but has a long way to go for democracy and freedom of expression. Sweden has a very important role to play – to be a driving force for human rights and a sustainable society, both in China and in other parts of the world, together with the EU. I therefore also support the committee's proposal.
i-eded400aa1fab400-818	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! China's emergence is one of the biggest global changes since the fall of the Berlin Wall. China today has a global presence and a growing influence, and it affects us in a number of areas. This change creates new conditions for Sweden that we need to relate to. This is how one can summarise the reasons for the letter on questions concerning China that the government submitted to Parliament last autumn and which is unique. This is the first time that the Swedish Government has adopted a comprehensive approach towards a country. It is very positive that the Riksdag is united in this approach. As you know, the letter goes through a number of areas: security and defence policy, trade and the economy, climate and environmental issues, China as a multilateral player, human rights, aid, technology and innovation, digitalisation, research and education, culture and the media. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has coordinated the work, but virtually all departments have been involved in producing the letter. The process itself has been valuable and will facilitate our continued work on issues relating to China. The letter is based on the 2016 EU China Strategy and describes how it is implemented nationally. Within the EU, only Sweden and the Netherlands have so far adopted official approaches to China. It is a central interest for Sweden that the EU has a common and clear China policy. It is crucial that the EU speaks with one voice, not least in view of next year's two EU-China summits. We are shaping our policy towards China together with EU countries and in close dialogue with other like-minded people. Madam President, I would like The government wants a broad dialogue with China based on Swedish and European interests and values. Our political unity in Sweden means that this dialogue can be conducted with clarity and credibility. Perhaps the most important message of the letter is that China's development presents both opportunities and challenges. We will take advantage of the opportunities that China's development offers and address the challenges that it faces us with. China is becoming increasingly important for growth and jobs in our country. Trade, business and Sweden promotion in China will therefore continue to develop. At the same time, the government will consistently and clearly address the issue of human rights in China. There is no contradiction between these two directions. On the contrary, trade relations also create room for dialogue. Many global issues, such as climate change and a functioning international trade regime, can only be resolved jointly with China. The government will contribute as much as possible to China's involvement in international cooperation where appropriate. On environmental and climate issues, China has great resources, technology and international influence that can help address global climate and environmental challenges. The EU must make higher demands on China in this area. This includes China reaching the peak of emissions by 2030 and then substantially reducing emissions in accordance with the Paris Agreement and taking full responsibility in line with the country's level of development. China needs to contribute more to multilateral regulatory work and to make greater financial contributions, both bilaterally and to climate funds, in particular to the Green Climate Fund. In order to safeguard free trade, the government will continue to engage in dialogue with China on modernising the multilateral trading system. The Government will be a driving force for the EU to conduct ambitious negotiations on agreements that facilitate trade and secure Swedish companies' market access and a level playing field. Deficiencies such as intellectual property infringements, forced technology transfer and WTO incompatible government subsidies need to be addressed. China acts in certain areas in a way that challenges the rule-based world order. Through the EU and other like-minded people, the government will demand China to comply with its international legal obligations and assume responsibility for rule-based multilateral cooperation in accordance with international law. The government strives for the EU and like-minded countries to cooperate and act jointly on the security and defence challenges posed by the increased Chinese global influence. This cooperation will be further strengthened. Our report on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in China, which came in June this year, confirms the image of a serious civil and political rights situation. This is something we clearly and consistently address in our dialogue with China as well as in multilateral contexts, in cooperation with the European Union and like-minded people. This applies not least to the situation in Xinjiang. The government is concerned about developments in Hong Kong. The EU is behind the principle, one country, two systems, to preserve Hong Kong's self-governance in accordance with Hong Kong's Constitution, the so-called Basic Law. It is important that the human rights and freedoms of Hong Kong residents are respected in this law. We assume that China, through its presence in Sweden, respects Swedish laws and regulations, including freedom of expression in Sweden. When this does not happen, we express our clear criticism. Our work for Gui Minhai continues unabated, and our line remains firm: We demand the release of Gui Minhai, and we will never give up our efforts. In this we have the support of the European Union. An important conclusion in the letter is that knowledge in Sweden about China needs to be increased. In order to increase this knowledge, the government will, among other things, establish a national knowledge centre on China. We also want to increase collaboration and information sharing about China within Sweden and in the EU. Madam President, I would like The letter is a starting shot and a basis for the broader China discussion that we see a need for in Sweden. This debate is an expression of this, and I would like to reiterate that the government attaches great value to the unity that exists in Parliament as regards our approach to China. As the letter shows, our relationship with China is important, complex and contains both opportunities and challenges. Sweden wants good relations with China. We want more Swedes to learn about China's language and culture and for more Swedes and Chinese to get to know each other. We will seek cooperation where our interests coincide. At the same time, we will always stand up for human rights, freedom of expression and democracy. I will never compromise there.
i-eded400aa1fab400-838	Madam President, I would like When I listened to the Foreign Minister's speech, I noted that there is a great deal of consensus on the assessment of the serious developments in China. That's very good. It is valuable in several respects. However, as I did a little bit in my speech, it is possible to trace a degree of caution in the way the government expresses criticism of the serious human rights violations that are taking place in China. This also applies in relation to the very strange behaviour of the Chinese ambassador to Sweden. The foreign minister's response to this has previously been that the government has addressed this, both in Stockholm and Beijing. Of course, it's important, but is that enough? This is about an ambassador who expresses threats to government representatives, who put pressure on the media and who tries to silence Gui Minhai's daughter Angela. At the same time, we know that Säpo is alerting us about increased Chinese intelligence activities, refugee espionage and so on in Sweden. Overall, this is undoubtedly a serious development. Carefully put, it can be said that it is an unacceptable act of foreign power and its representatives in our country. Ann Linde! I would like to ask: how is it that China's ambassador is not declared a persona non grata? Would the diplomats of other authoritarian countries in Sweden be able to act in a similar way without being sent home?
i-eded400aa1fab400-843	Madam President, I would like I agree with Lars Adaktusson that the Chinese ambassador has made serious and even unacceptable statements. But we want to keep channels open for dialogue. Deporting the ambassador is a tool that we want to avoid at the longest.
i-eded400aa1fab400-844	Madam President, I would like I think most of us understand that in relations with China we must be careful and act responsibly, not least in view of the vulnerable situation of Gui Minhai. At the same time, there is probably, or at least there should be, a limit to how China can act despite its great economic and political influence, including how China can be allowed to act in our country. The Christian Democrats believe that that line has been crossed. We see a risk that the Government's prudence in Beijing may be perceived as an expression of weakness and fear, and I think that would be very unfortunate. As far as Gui Minhai and his situation are concerned, it is hardly realistic that Sweden alone will be able to influence the Chinese regime. There is a need for greater EU involvement in this matter. More cooperation between Sweden and other Western countries is needed to achieve a result and put pressure on the regime.
i-eded400aa1fab400-848	Madam President, I would like It is very important that we have the EU with us when it comes to Minhais Gui's opportunity to be free – he is not only a Swedish citizen but also a European citizen. I am very pleased to note that the European Union has always been there for us. Early on they gave support to Sweden's struggle to get Gui Minhai free. And immediately after the Tucholsky Prize's award came a statement from the EU's External Action Service that they fully support Sweden's actions and Sweden's demands. We have also raised this issue with the Member States of the European Union. I note that both President Macron, when he met Xi Jinping in November, and Chancellor Merkel, when she made her trip to China, have taken up Gui Minhai. To ensure that there is no change with the new Commission, I raised the issue of Gui Minhai at a bilateral meeting with the new Commissioner, Josep Borrell, on Monday. I informed him of the situation and assured myself that he had no other attitude than that of his predecessor Federica Mogherini. I was assured that he will continue to ensure that the EU provides support. It's very important. We always remind, as soon as there are some large delegations in the pipeline, that the case of European citizens, Gui Minhais, should also be addressed.
i-eded400aa1fab400-852	Madam President, I would like I am fundamentally in favour of the Government presenting this letter. I think this is an important step forward. The government can stand to be commended for all the times they have called China's ambassador here in Sweden. He basically has a clipping card for a visit to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There should also be praise for the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has raised the case of Gui Minhai with the High Representative of the European Union. The Minister for Foreign Affairs told us about the content of the letter. The letter is basically good, but as a left-wing party I am struck by the fact that I miss a few things. I'm a little surprised, because that's what I thought a faithful Social Democracy would never let go. If you look for what the letter says about women's rights, you will find two sentences: a Chinese law provides for equal rights for women and men in many respects. In practice, however, significant challenges remain for gender equality. ..................................................... There are two sentences on 21 pages. Is it feminist foreign policy, Ann Linde? The word feminism is not found at all in the letter. One can think about what the government thinks about trade union rights. There the result is even more disappointing. Trade union rights for workers in China are not mentioned once. The only time you mention the unions is when you write that there should be collaboration with trade unions when a knowledge centre is to be established about China in Sweden. It feels like knowledge of trade union rights needs to increase in Sweden, especially at the Government Office. Why is it, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde, that a feminist foreign policy, women's rights and trade union rights are so prioritised in the government's work on China policy?
i-eded400aa1fab400-858	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the question! As regards how feminist foreign policy is expressed in the letter, I can say that we are highlighting the challenges that exist for gender equality in China. We will continue to have a dialogue with China on gender equality and the areas where it differs, because it does. In the field of feminist foreign policy, we raise the issue with all the countries we visit, and we do so in all multilateral contexts. We include gender equality in Agenda 2030, where we also have a dialogue with China. Here, then, the government's view of both feminist foreign policy and what we think is flawed in China's gender equality policy comes up. Trade union issues are, of course, a priority for the government, including through the work we do with the Global Deal. In the letter, we have chosen to address it by calling for the ILO conventions to be signed. It is very clear in the letter. One of the core ILO conventions concerns the right to trade union organisation. We therefore believe that we have raised the issue of the right to trade union organisation also in the Chinese letter.
i-eded400aa1fab400-861	Madam President, I would like I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer to my questions. I hope that both women's rights and trade union rights will become clearer in the government's China policy in the future. I am concerned that this letter will be another example of how economic interests are put before the protection of human rights in Swedish foreign policy. We have seen this whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been from the Social Democrats or from a bourgeois party. Sweden must always be prepared to criticise any violation of human rights, wherever, when and with what motives. That is the basis for a credible and consistent Swedish foreign policy. I think that in every contact with China Sweden must address the extensive and serious violations of human rights. I also hope that the government will raise its voice on trade union issues by also talking about corporate responsibility. Today, I do not think that the government is clearly highlighting what is being demanded of companies. Global framework agreements could be highlighted much more clearly as a way for companies to have a good basic level of workers' rights wherever they appear to be. The government could also work much more clearly with binding regulations and clear mechanisms. There has been a report from the government's own authority Statskontoret that it should have legislation on guiding principles for companies and human rights. But this is not something that the government says it is working on at the moment or says it is moving forward with, and I think that this is something that the government should take up and move forward with, linked to China but also widely in Swedish foreign policy.
i-eded400aa1fab400-864	Madam President, I would like I wonder if Håkan Svenneling has slept the last week. We have presented the new export strategy, which, incidentally, does not include any priority countries that Håkan Svenneling made a point of in his speech. In addition, there has been a press conference today, to which reference has been made in many media, both on the new export strategy and on the new platform on sustainable business with human rights, trade union rights, climate initiatives and everything related to it. The only thing I can do is say to Håkan Svenneling : Go home and read and you will see that you do not have to ask questions that we already have answers to.
i-eded400aa1fab400-867	Madam President, I would like I have a few questions for the Secretary of State. The first concerns Hong Kong. I am absolutely convinced that all of us in this House are behind the freedom fighters in Hong Kong. There you can now see violence from the authorities. You could describe it as being beaten without bruises. It can then be recalled that there is a Chinese-British agreement in essence, in which Hong Kong residents are granted the right to have free and democratic elections. That is why we are talking about one country, two systems. I wonder what the government intends to do to further underline the importance of this. My second question is that Swedish industry repeatedly points to the risk of being exposed to industrial espionage and theft of knowledge. Then my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs as representative of the whole government is: What does the government intend to do to ensure that Swedish authorities are even stronger and even better able to assist the business community when you are exposed to cyberattacks, knowledge thefts and espionage? My third question concerns something that has taken place in the Swedish debate, namely dual citizenship – Swedish and Chinese. It is also what has been used by the Chinese regime in relation to the Swedish publisher Gui Minhai, when they deny his Swedish citizenship and just emphasise that he is a Chinese citizen. But this also applies to people who are active in Sweden in the public sector and perhaps in the business sector. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs view the risk that the Chinese authority will exploit, blackmail and even demand information and knowledge from Swedish citizens who are also Chinese citizens? How does the government view this risk? These are my three questions.
i-eded400aa1fab400-874	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hans Wallmark for the questions. Thanks also for the fun illustration of lacquer boxes that I hope I can use if there are no copyright rules around it. Of course, the government is behind the principle of one country and two systems. Hong Kong has a self-governing position and an independent political and legal system. It is in accordance with the constitution that exists in Hong Kong. We have repeatedly pointed out that we want human rights and freedoms to be protected under this law. When the government has made trips to China, we have also deliberately visited Hong Kong, talked to dissidents and talked to trade union representatives precisely to provide support for Hong Kong's ability to maintain its self-governing position and human and civil rights. Regarding Swedish business and what measures we want to take to protect Sweden against this type of security-related threat in terms of acquisitions, infrastructure and so on, there is a legislative process going on at national and EU level in response to exactly the issues raised by Hans Wallmark. However, we do not mention individual countries in these processes. For a number of years, the Swedish Security Service and other authorities have indicated that there are risks associated with foreign takeovers of companies which, among other things, carry out sensitive activities. It has also been recognised in the European Union. There is an EU regulation that regulates a deeper area in this regard.
i-eded400aa1fab400-878	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for this! Sometimes it can be as difficult to keep time in a line as to say lacquer box enough times. On the question of Hong Kong, I think the Foreign Minister gave a good answer. I think it is important that Sweden continues to be a driving force, not least within the European family, and to remind us that the basis of one country, two systems is that Hong Kong residents should have full democratic rights. What we are now seeing are horrifying images from Hong Kong. I also hope that the EU can work together to condemn the abuse of Uighurs, as has been done by the US Congress. The United States is now raising its tone. I believe that Europe may well be part of exactly the same thing. As far as support for Swedish companies is concerned, I really do not think that I specifically mentioned any country that subjected them to industrial espionage, various forms of theft and cyber attacks. There are several countries involved in this. It is therefore important to have legislation in place. But I would like to emphasise that it is also important that Swedish authorities are already assisting, helping and supporting companies, businesses and institutions that are exposed to fairly extensive cyber attacks, thefts and industrial espionage, regardless of who the sender is. I would therefore like to emphasise that. It is the concern of the Moderates that the authorities may take this a little too lightly in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Finally, the Foreign Minister was unable to answer all my questions in two minutes. I would therefore remind you that the third question was not raised. It was by no means conscious that it was rejected, but because time was not sufficient. However, this issue concerned dual citizenship. How do you see the risk that people with Swedish citizenship and Chinese citizenship in Sweden may be exploited by Chinese authorities because they are active in public or Swedish industry?
i-eded400aa1fab400-883	Madam President, I would like One thing at a time. As far as the Uighurs and Xinjiang are concerned, we have been very clear. Among other things, on Swedish initiative in the UN universal review mechanism, we have raised concerns about the situation in Xinjiang. We have also contributed to a number of resolutions. Most recently in October, 23 countries including Sweden addressed the situation in Xinjiang and our concern and criticism of it. As far as business is concerned, I was in on the various studies that exist on this. I also believe that the knowledge centre that is not yet ready but is still being prepared within the government is very important. Companies often have too little knowledge, and we want to be able to help companies get more knowledge so that they can understand why Chinese actors have an interest in their companies and sometimes what rules apply to Chinese companies, for example that one must always be able to report back to the state if the state wants to. On the issue of dual citizenship, the Security Service has raised, for example, the risk of espionage. There have been two convictions in Sweden, e n concerning Tibetans and e n concerning Uighurs, in relation to refugee espionage. As far as we're concerned, it's clear. If you are a Swedish citizen, you are a Swedish citizen, even if you also have a Chinese citizenship. Then the rights you have as a Swedish citizen apply – but Säpo also keeps track.
i-eded400aa1fab400-887	Madam President, I would like Cooperation where appropriate, I heard Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde mention. It is important that Sweden does not become door-opener for China's perspective on the world. It is a fundamental condition for us to be successful in our work for our values. I would like to start by asking the Foreign Minister two questions. The first concerns the EU's structured dialogue with Hong Kong. Is the government prepared to promote the inclusion of elected representatives in Hong Kong in such a structured dialogue? These are the proposals mentioned in the Committee on Foreign Affairs' report. The second question is whether the government is prepared to work for, in line with the 2016 EU China Strategy, that relations with Taiwan are developing, for example, with regard to observation in the WHO or to be included in ICAO with regard to international aviation safety.
i-eded400aa1fab400-890	Madam President, I would like On the question of the EU's structured dialogue with Hong Kong, whether or not to include parliamentarians, I cannot answer yet. I do not know whether the EU has imposed any restrictions on, for example, the inclusion of voluntary organisations. I will take with me Kerstin Lundgren's question and look at it, but I am not prepared to say one or the other right now because I know too little about the details of who is participating in the structured dialogue. Several Members have raised the issue of Taiwan. Sweden has good relations with Taiwan. We have been working for many years to ensure that Taiwan can cooperate with various multilateral organisations such as the WHO, the WTO, the Asian Development Bank and the International Olympic Committee. Taiwan has also participated as an observer in the highest decision-making body of the WHO, the World Health Assembly. The government therefore welcomes developments in which Taiwan can participate in several areas, for example by gaining observership in the WHO.
i-eded400aa1fab400-893	Madam President, I would like It is important to look at the EU's intention when it says that it wants a structured dialogue with Hong Kong within the framework of the principle of one country, two systems. It is important not only to talk to the country – a system – in the form of representatives of mainland China or of the Chinese Communist regime, but also to talk to the elected representatives. As parliamentarians, it is important to raise that perspective, and I hope that the Foreign Minister will include it in his work. I welcome the willingness to continue working on the EU's ambition to develop the conditions for Taiwan. Here, too, it is important for the government to help to see how the EU lives up to its 2016 position. Madam President, I would like to ask a question about the screening process that we foresee coming. I mentioned in my speech that the investigation that Sten Heckscher has been commissioned to present by 2 November 2021 could very well be speeded up, given that we are seeing how quickly reality is affected and changing and to be in tune with some other countries so that there is no black hole in the structures. I wonder whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs is prepared to speed up the investigation that has been set up to develop the conditions for screening.
i-eded400aa1fab400-896	Madam President, I would like There were questions about screening. We have to implement the EU regulation. It entered into force on 11 April and will be in place in October next year. Then there is its own national screening. They have both been extremely debated. We have not had such a system in Sweden before. It was about 16 countries in the EU that had it in the past, but not Sweden. This is because, for example, if there is a national system, you are subject to certain rules that you are not if there is no system. I am not prepared to say that we should speed this up. These issues are so extremely complex, and since we have not had the system at all in the past, it is better for the issue to be properly investigated rather than for us not to deal with all the details. These issues are not easy. I have been very involved in these issues for several years, and I think it is better to make sure that it is right from the start than to speed up. But I agree with Kerstin Lundgren that this is urgent. I am therefore pleased that we have finally come to the conclusion that this must be put in place.
i-eded400aa1fab400-900	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all the women and men who, on behalf of Sweden, are involved in international efforts for peace and security and in humanitarian efforts around the world. This applies, of course, to both military and civilian personnel. Thanks are also due to the thousands who have made efforts for a better world for more than half a century. You have left security, family and friends, taken personal risks, made great sacrifices, and suffered hardships to help others. Of course, our thoughts and thanks go to those who did not return home. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating continued Swedish participation in the military training operation in Iraq. The effort is being made at the Iraqi invitation and is being carried out by the global coalition that cooperates to combat the terror organisation Daish. I want to make it clear that we may have different political views on how and where the Swedish operation in Iraq will be carried out, but there is no doubt that we all stand, in every way and 100%, behind the Swedish women and men involved in the operation – this regardless of what the political decision for the operation will eventually look like. Madam President, I would like Since the beginning of 2019, the Swedish operation has mainly been stationed on the Taji base northwest of Baghdad. Previously, the Swedish educational effort was located in the capital of the Kurdistan region Erbil. The Kurds have made a decisive effort to push back Daish – IS. In particular, we in Europe have reason to be humble and grateful for the sacrifices made by the Kurds. The Swedish Democrats want the Swedish effort to be re-located to Erbil for several reasons. It is my firm belief that before we politicians send Swedish men and women to international efforts, we are obliged to ensure that they also have the best possible conditions for success. It is our joint responsibility that the effort is just. But it should also be safe, as safe as possible, so that no unjustified and unnecessary risks are taken. Madam President, I would like The Swedish operation is invited by the recent Iraqi Government. The Swedish operation trains Iraqi security forces and police. It is the same security forces and police that are accused of being involved in violent violence and the murder of over 400 demonstrators, where 17 000 are also reported to have been injured. In addition, Iraq's newly departed Minister of Defence is not only Swedish citizens, who are accused of crime in Sweden and investigated in Sweden for crimes against humanity. He and his department also ruled over the very forces trained by Sweden and accused of having participated in the violence against demonstrators. Iraq's Ministry of Defence and Minister of Defence also threaten the domestic and Swedish media that report negatively about the Minister of Defence. What is now happening in Iraq remains to be seen. Will the same government come back in another form? Does the Swedish-Iraki criminal suspect Minister of Defence have confidence in a new government? Will a new government in Iraq be controlled by the mullahs in Iran? To which future powers do we now train military personnel? I think it is very uncertain whether the effort for next year is, with absolute certainty, justified. The Swedish Democrats also believe that the implementation of the operation in the way the government proposes under the current circumstances is to take unnecessary and unjustified risks. Therefore, we want the Swedish government to contact the leadership of the coalition to begin planning to re- localise the Swedish effort to Erbil. Madam President, I would like I noted that Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde participated in the previous debate, which concerned China, but that she now appears to have left Parliament. That is a pity, because I had some questions for the Foreign Minister. These are the same questions that I have raised on no less than six occasions to the newly fired Secretary of Cabinet Söder without her having managed to produce any relevant answer at one time. I would say that, prior to the handling of this matter by the Government, Parliament has been presented with incomplete and decisively misleading material, either deliberately or through negligence. It is wrong as if they had not been noticed via the media could have put unnecessary danger to our Swedish personnel in Iraq. It is wrong as if they had been served on the Riksdag in the manner that is intended and that is right, and that the Riksdag has the right to demand, could have influenced the handling of the matter. The media have shown that before it was reported in the Swedish media in early November, the Swedish Minister for Defence did not know that Iraq's Minister for Defence has Swedish citizenship and is suspected of crime in Sweden. That information has obviously not been communicated by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs to the Minister for Defence and the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has also stated, via the newly fired cabinet secretary Söder, that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs only learned about this situation on 8 October. That the Iraqi Defence Minister has Swedish citizenship was recognised in Iraqi media as early as April 2019. He was then strongly criticised for this very fact. The question that arises is, of course, the following: How can the Swedish Embassy in Baghdad fail to pay attention to this in its international coverage or through the contacts it has in Iraqi society and with the Iraqi Government? To me, it seems extremely strange. Has the embassy really missed this? No, honestly, I don't think so. It seems unlikely. Or has the embassy paid attention to this but failed to report home to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs? With Swedish troops in Iraq and the implications it entails, this is also not likely. Or has the embassy paid attention to this and reported to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs but that it has remained at a lower level and has not been served on the Cabinet Secretary and the Minister for Foreign Affairs? As a result, the Minister for Defence has not been aware of this either. I don't know. This is serious, and we should have had this on the table right from the start when we dealt with the matter. Now we will see if the KU will come up with the answers when they examine the matter, which I think is a good thing. Madam President, I would like We are debating this today, but the decision is taken at the vote on Tuesday. All of us who have been involved in the handling of the matter and all the tours that have been aware that the situation can change until Tuesday. It has done so in the past during treatment. It can change for the better, and it can change for the worse until the vote on Tuesday. The fact that this can happen and that we are all aware of it should be borne in mind that we are voting for maximum security, i.e. reservation l, on Tuesday.
i-eded400aa1fab400-924	Madam President, I would like Around the world, people are demonstrating. They demonstrate against inequality and injustice. This autumn we have seen demonstrations in Chile, Ecuador, Bolivia, Lebanon, Iran, Hong Kong and Iraq. However, in few other places violence against demonstrators has been as bloody as in Iraq. In the report we are debating today from the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, we write that over 400 civilians have died and at least 17 000 people have been injured in the demonstrations. I'm afraid that's not true. Since we adjusted the report last Thursday, eight days ago, additional people have been killed and injured. At least 20 more have been killed, and at least 130 have been injured in a coordinated attack in Baghdad, according to Amnesty. To demonstrate and make one's voice heard is a right in a democracy. And although democracy is fragile in Iraq, it is a democracy in which that right should be self-evident. Who, then, is killing the demonstrators? According to media reports, the Iraqi police have been the ones who have fought back the demonstrators disproportionately violently. For example, there is evidence of snipers shooting at unarmed demonstrators. The police, in turn, have been assisted by the Iraqi military. There are also data on militia groups involved in the killing of demonstrators. These groups may be supported by Iran. The fact that they are attacking demonstrators could be about protestors' demands for reduced Iranian interference in Iraq's internal affairs. The fact that the Iraqi forces are not putting an end to these militia groups and that they can get past checkpoints is very serious. The mullets in Iran have a clear role to play in the Middle East region. They seek to retain and strengthen Iran's regional power in many Muslim countries and to counter popular democracies. Sweden's operation in Iraq, which the Left Party has been behind since it started, is about training Iraq's military in the global coalition against Daish, also known as IS. The person who has caused great debate in Sweden is now the outgoing Iraqi Minister of Defence Najah al-al-Shammari. In addition to Iraqi citizens, he is also a Swedish citizen. Here in Sweden he has been charged with crimes, where since the prosecution has been closed. However, information has also come to light that he is being investigated for, among other things, crimes against international law. We do not yet know exactly what these crimes are, but they should be modern and may very likely be linked to the killing of demonstrators in Iraq. Does this have anything to do with the Swedish operation in Iraq? The Iraqi Minister for Defence has no power over the troops that Sweden sends. Sweden trains those responsible for the training of the Iraqi army. They, in turn, train soldiers who come under the responsibility of the Minister. The fact that these troops are killing demonstrators is never okay and should be strongly condemned. The Iraqi Government and its Minister for Defence have a great responsibility for this. Daish can now be on the rise again, due to Turkey's attack on north-east Syria, which has provided a new opportunity for Daish to re-strengthen its presence in the region through the uncertain security situation. The fight against Daish is far from over. Several of Daish's leaders are likely to be in Iraq, and the movement has switched to working through various forms of terrorist attacks and targeted murders. Daish's emergence is basically a symptom of political discontent – a discontent involving political and economic marginalisation, poor public services, corruption and unemployment. Iraq's long-term stability is linked to the Iraqi Government's ability to create equality and a level playing field for the population, especially for young people, and its ability to combat corruption. It has been important for us in the Left Party to make it clear that violence against demonstrators is disproportionate and that international law and human rights are respected. We are behind the international efforts to combat Daish, but at the same time we note that it is only a fairer and more equal world that will finally defeat Daish and other extremism, not weapons. We are seeing a number of uncertainties about the military training operation in Iraq: violence against and the killing of civilians who protest against unequal conditions, corruption, the formation of government and the uncertain political situation in Iraq, but also the USA and President Trumps's long-term strategy for the Middle East. It would therefore have been valuable if the Riksdag had again been able to take a position on Sweden's military operation in Iraq in view of the parliamentary summer break 2020. As there is no majority in favour of this order, we in the Left Party support the proposal of the bill to give a mandate for next year's change, as we believe that the international community's commitment to counter Daish is important to manifest and support. However, it is to be welcomed that the committee will now receive increased reporting back from the government on the Iraq operation several times next year. I would like to thank all of you who are on or have been on a foreign mission for Sweden. This is a difficult task on which we send you in Parliament, and for your contribution we in the Left Party wish to express our appreciation. The bill mentions that Sweden will contribute one person, a medical expert, to the NATO-led operation NMI. The Left Party is critical of Sweden's defence being increasingly integrated into NATO structures and NATO defence organisations. Although this time it is only one person, it is typical of the NATO approach of the Social Democrats, which we have debated many times in this House. Swedish defence integration with NATO has been going on for a long time. During the same time, NATO and NATO countries have waged three failed wars, in Afghanistan, in Iraq and in Libya. These wars have contributed to great suffering, to the flight of millions of people and to the emergence of the terror organization Daish. Moreover, the pursuit of NATO cooperation makes Sweden increasingly dependent on NATO and creates the image of us as an unofficial NATO member. With this, Madam President, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 3.
i-eded400aa1fab400-943	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to be approved in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy. Over the years, many Swedish women and men have participated in various international initiatives where Sweden has been or is still engaged. Our participation as a country would never have been possible without the personal efforts and sacrifices of these people – not only the efforts of the individuals on the ground but also the efforts of their families and relatives. Especially as we are now moving towards Christmas and New Year holidays, when families, relatives and friends usually gather, I would like to express my and our great gratitude and appreciation to you who participate in the efforts and your families, relatives and friends who share your everyday lives in the effort. While working on the report and the draft decision that we are debating today, the Minister for Defence of Iraq has received a great deal of attention in the Swedish media. The Iraqi Defence Minister is accused of a number of different crimes, ranging from fraud of grants to crimes of international law. These allegations led to extraordinary meetings of the committee and to the extension of the timetable for this dossier and the postponement of the debate and decisions. It is good that this has happened. Parliament and its committees must make informed and informed decisions. The various criminal charges are investigated by different authorities and courts. Nobody's guilty until it's convicted. This also applies to an Iraqi Minister of Defence who has previously lived in Sweden. At the same time, of course, it is not possible to ignore the accusations, and it has been important for the committee to clarify whether this can affect the Swedish contribution to the international effort in Iraq. The accusations against Iraq's Minister of Defence about aid crimes and civil records crimes are, of course, no asset for the relationship between Sweden and Iraq. But whether they are true or not, they are not relevant to the Swedish operation in Iraq. The charges of crimes against international law will come back to me in a moment. Our staff's mission is partly to train and advise Iraqi military and police in combating the threat from Daish, and partly to work with security and protection of the operation. Geographically, the Swedish contribution has recently been transferred from the Kurdish region of Iraq to the Taji base. The Swedish force consists of 70 people but can, if necessary, be increased by an additional 150 people in emergency situations or if there is a need to evacuate the Swedish force. The international coalition is an important part of the fight against Daish, one of the worst terrorist organisations the world has ever seen. Today it is considered militaryly defeated, but this does not mean that it has ceased to exist or that the acts of terrorism have ceased. With regard to the mission carried out by Sweden, the allegations of crimes of international law are of course relevant when the committee and the Riksdag are to take a position and decide whether or not to extend the Swedish operation. Such accusations must be investigated and tried in the legal system that exists, not by us here in Parliament. It's not our mission. On the other hand, it is our mission to decide whether Sweden can continue with the mission in Iraq at the same time as there are allegations of violations of international law. What is important is above all the question of how the Swedish effort is controlled and who is in charge. The fact that there may have been crimes of international law, regardless of who is ultimately responsible for them, demonstrates the need for the Swedish training operation for Iraqi police and military. It is precisely respect for human rights that is at the heart of the education that is being given. The fact that Swedish military personnel carry out the training is of great value in itself. Through their behaviour, experience and working methods, they are not only trainers but also important examples. Education is not only about theory but also about practice. The mission in which Sweden participates is carried out by an international coalition led by the United States, which operates in Iraq at the invitation of the Iraqi Government. It is not Iraq's Minister of Defence or the Iraqi Ministry of Defence who is leading neither the international effort nor the Swedish contribution to the coalition. It is important to understand this. It is not the Iraqi Defence Minister, the criminal accused or not, who is directing the Swedish operation. There is a clear distance between the Iraqi Defence Minister and the Swedish operation which is ultimately under Swedish command. Where Sweden's contribution is made geographically is governed by the leadership of the coalition. We can of course have wishes, but ultimately it is the need and ability to carry out the mission that determines where Sweden's contribution is geographically located. The Swedish Democrats were against our being moved from the Kurdish region in 2018. In view of this decision, the Swedish Democrats have wanted us to move the effort back there. In the turbulence that has arisen around the Iraqi Minister of Defence, the Swedish Democrats have found further arguments for a return. It is important to remember that it is not only for Sweden to choose freely where to carry out our mission. We have made important and highly appreciated efforts in the Kurdish region. Based on this and the current needs, we have been asked to participate in the coalition's effort at Taji base northwest of Baghdad. Sweden, together with 75 countries, is part of a coalition. Sweden is part of a whole where it is carefully calibrated where each one makes the best use. This is not freely chosen work. If it is the case that someone wants to engage in it, then it should probably engage in other things than international military operations. A move, if carried out, would also mean that the coalition and the training effort carried out by Sweden will lose momentum during the period of the move. This would be very unfortunate. The safety of Swedish personnel involved in the operation has been a very important part of the discussion in the composite committee. It is always for all the efforts we decide to take part in. As always, the Swedish Armed Forces constantly value the security situation. K oalit ion as a whole recently paused throughout the operation when the security situation was assessed as uncertain due to tension between the United States and Iran. There is always a readiness to, when the security situation so requires, change and ultimately finish the work that it will do. In order to follow matters closely and to obtain information on how the security situation is developing, the composite committee proposes that the government return to Parliament at least once a quarter or whenever the situation so requires. The fact that Parliament is given information during ongoing operations is in practice the normal thing, but with this proposal, when it comes to decisions, it will also be a schedule for the future of the information. This type of mission is never harmless a. If they were, they would not have been needed in practice. Of course, our staff should be exposed to as low a risk as possible and face the risks that still exist with as high a level of competence and equipment as possible. Madam President, I would like In doing so, I would like to reiterate my request to approve the committee's proposal and again express my gratitude and appreciation to those involved in the operation and to their families, relatives and friends. We are all in this, but it is you who stand at the front and make it possible. Thank you!
i-eded400aa1fab400-964	Madam President, I would like I am a little surprised and would like to ask a question: Has Sweden asked the coalition leadership if it could possibly be possible to move back to Erbil? Sure, there are over 70 countries and thousands of soldiers participating, but it is more important that it is absolutely possible to make a shift between someone who is currently in Erbil and the Swedish force outside Baghdad. Has the question even been asked? Maybe it's not that complicated. Nor is it reasonable to imagine that all of the other countries have the same complicated situation as Sweden currently has in relation to the outgoing Minister of Defence, which we do not know whether he will return or not. There could therefore be someone who can take on the task more easily in Baghdad. To conclude, I would like to ask the question: who controls Iraq during next year's operation? Who are we training for? It should still be quite interesting. I would like an answer to that question.
i-ALb1HUoWznHM6RGaAuzhRu	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, for the questions! Sweden has of course repeatedly discussed with the coalition where we are located and what we are doing. As late as a week ago or two, it was a meeting with the coalition to discuss how the work is progressing. This is an ongoing discussion on how to design the action. We must, of course, realise that we are one of a great many participating countries, and in terms of the number of people we are a relatively small part. It's a matter of making all this fit together. We have been to the Kurdistan region and made important efforts there before. We should certainly be proud and pleased about that. We have now been asked for other actions that we are now carrying out. As regards the complicated relationship with the Minister for Defence, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström seems to think that it would be something else to be in the Kurdistan region. But that's not the case. It is not formally removed from the Iraqi Defence Minister, because the Peshmerga soldiers involved in training in the Kurdistan region are part of the Iraqi Armed Forces. If you have the impression that they are not, I would say that we have a completely different problem to discuss in terms of how the effort is done. Who's running Iraq next year? This is more than a 10 000-krona issue, and we must of course all follow very closely how this development is taking place, who is in charge and who they are possibly influenced by.
i-eded400aa1fab400-973	Madam President, I would like That's a huge difference, Kenneth G. Forslund. After all, it is not peshmerga who shoots at innocent demonstrators in Baghdad and in other cities. It is not the Peshmerga police or the Kurdish police who are shooting at demonstrators, but it is the internal forces, security forces and the police that are in and around the major cities, partly under the command of the Ministry of Defence, that are doing so. Of course there is a significant difference. If it is the case that we are going to investigate the Secretary of Defence for crimes of international law – if he returns; we do not know – while training those particular troops, it is of course more complicated than if we are training Peshmerga who are not involved in the murder of innocent demonstrators. That's an essential difference. I didn't get an answer if we asked the question. Have we asked the coalition if we can change places? I did not get an answer to that, but it was just general reasoning. It's pretty easy to ask the question. You can only get a no. Have we asked the question? No, we don't know who's running Iraq next year. Do not the Social Democrats also find it a little complicated that we do not know who is running Iraq next year in view of the effort and the implications that exist? Doesn't matter?
i-eded400aa1fab400-977	Madam President, I would like In fact, the fact that there are violations of international law is one of the arguments for training staff so that they can carry out their duties in a professional way and not commit abuse of various kinds. Unfortunately, I do not think that Peshmerga is completely free from accusations, either. Then there is another third party to this, and there are militia groups which in any case are not under Iraqi state control. There is every reason to investigate the abuses and murders that have taken place. At least to some extent, I believe, we are contributing to this with the international prosecutor's office here in Sweden. Then I was asked if we have asked the coalition. It was a discussion about where we were supposed to be from the beginning. Then I can also partly answer Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström's last question. This has never been straightforward. Iraq is a country of great instability. That is one reason why the effort is needed, because it is to fight Daish and build stability in the country. The situation creates uncertainty, and it has existed from the very beginning. When we started the discussion about taking part in the operation at all, one of the big questions was: What do we train those who will make the operation? It was not easy to educate peshmerga from the outset either, because we know that, to be honest, there are tensions within the Iraqi system and what it could possibly contribute to. When it comes to the question of whether we could come back, it is not here in Parliament that we are asking the question. But what we do know is that there is an ongoing discussion about how the operation is to be carried out. It is not the way to ask formal questions in this way, but the way you wish.
i-eded400aa1fab400-981	Madam President, I would like If anyone listens to this debate, it is worth recalling that we are now dealing with the issue of continued Swedish participation in the military training operation in Iraq and thus our contribution to the international coalition against IS/ Daish. A majority of Parliament's parties agree to allow the government to make available an armed force of up to 220 persons until 31 December 2020. On behalf of the Moderates, I support the proposal of the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. We have had a very thorough examination of the issue this time, for the simple reason that there are many questions and it is quite complicated. But I dare say that we have lifted almost every question and stone. There is reason to say something about the background to the Swedish operation. We are participating in an international coalition against the terrorist organisation Daish, established in 2014, at a request for assistance requested by the Iraqi Government to the UN. The country has a long history of conflict, violence and death. After Saddam Hussein's brutal rule, there was some hope for peace and freedom. Instead, there was invasion and civil war. In 2006, the Iraqi branch of Al Qaeda and smaller Sunni organisations were united in what came to be called the Islamic State in Iraq. After years of terrorist attacks, IS/ Daish proclaimed the so-called caliphate in 2014. Rapid military conquests were followed by mass executions, mass exodus, and misery. The testimony of survivors is hideous and very difficult to absorb. The international coalition is broad with 76 participating countries. There is international solidarity in trying to address these problems. The coalition's efforts include training and training of defence forces in Iraq and Syria. In December 2017, the Iraqi Government, by proclaiming victory over Daish, said that the operation had had some effect. The situation has gradually stabilised somewhat, but the problems are far from resolved. We can read every day in the newspapers and get reports of things that are absolutely unacceptable and very problematic. There is dissatisfaction among many groups of people in Iraq. The need for reconstruction in the country is very great. Millions of people are in need of humanitarian aid, and many cannot return where they come from because of the security situation or because there is no functioning public services at all. Our participation in the international operation is part of Sweden's participation in international crisis management. Work is needed to maintain and strengthen a rule-based world order, and we want to be there. It also contributes to our own defence capabilities and national security to work with others in efforts for what is right and right. In the course of the work on this matter, questions have been raised in relation to various tasks concerning the Minister for Defence of Iraq. It has been about his dual citizenship, suspicions of civil record crimes, benefit crimes, genocide and one with the other. Yes, there are a number of very serious accusations now being investigated and handled by the judiciary. There is also reason to get to the bottom of how the information has been received by the Prime Minister's Committee and Ministry and how it has worked. This is now a trial in the Constitutional Committee, so it will be sorted out. This has led us in the composite committee to reflect on the confidence in the armed forces that we are training through this effort. The Iraqi Prime Minister has resigned and we do not really know what is going on in the future. As a result, it has been difficult to deal with the issue. However, the fact is that the serious threat posed by IS/ Daish requires further work. No one can do it alone. Our soldiers are part of and led by the international coalition. By contributing to the training of Iraqi defence forces, Daish counters the threat. Then, of course, we also do some other things. I would like to point out that Sweden is also working on the UN Security Resolution on women, peace and security. It may not seem so great all the time when you talk about this problem, but in the long term it is very important that this kind of work is carried out in this context. I think we will see that it does some good, because I do not think there are so many others who lift that ball, and that needs to be done in this type of training effort. The committee has, of course, had concerns about and also raised the issues raised by Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, whether to move the effort and so on. I think Kenneth G. Forslund well explained the answers. After all, we in the committee have asked what the location looks like, and I have sat with them at those meetings. Don't shake your head, because that's the way it is. We are where the coalition believes we are doing the most good. We have a continuous discussion. We are not very big in this context and, of course, we should be where we are best served. Moving the Swedish soldiers now is cumbersome and expensive and would cause you to lose several months of use. At least that's the answer we got, and that's something we can discuss. But the question is whether it is the Swedish parliament that should think about this. We have experts and authorities in place that we have asked if this is a good idea, and they say: No, it is not a good idea. Well, then maybe we should listen to it. I believe that we must have confidence in the staff we have here at home, but also, of course, in the place where we make efforts. The committee has made an announcement to the government, which has been mentioned here, because we want the government to report back to the Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee, when the situation so requires, or at least once a quarter, on the design of the operation, possible changes in circumstances and how to meet the objectives. It is then formally the Foreign Affairs Committee that should be informed, but of course we assume that the Defence Committee is also informed because it is Swedish defence personnel who are in place. The announcement is important. This indicates that we know that this is a difficult and complex situation that must be followed all the time and that we are prepared to receive the information and act accordingly. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to address the Swedish Armed Forces and the staff directly and thank you for your contribution to international peace and security. You are worthy of respect for the work that you are doing for our country, for the interests of the nation and on behalf of our elected members of the Swedish Parliament. Of course, even your families are worthy of our encouragement and thanks, not least for the weekends ahead. I sincerely hope that all those who are now engaged in international efforts will have a good, peaceful and hopefully peaceful Christmas. That would be the best thing that could happen. I very much hope that you feel that you have all the support and all the thoughts that you can demand from us in the Swedish Parliament, because the efforts that you make out in the world mean a lot to Sweden and to the cooperation that good countries have to carry out in order for the world to be better.
i-eded400aa1fab400-999	Madam President, I would like Much has already been said in the debate. There is a broad majority behind the proposal for a decision by the composite committee. I would like to address all those who make our decisions possible, as well as others. It is all women and men, families and relatives who make contributions for Sweden but also for peace and security in Iraq as well as in other parts of the world. You are extremely important and a prerequisite for the decisions we take in this House next week, for example. Sweden is part of the international training effort to combat Daish. They do the women and men we send out. I'm afraid Daish isn't defeated. It's still alive. Through the events that we saw in Syria when the United States quickly withdrew and with the action of Russia and Turkey, we have seen that Daish has gathered air under its wings again, unfortunately. This will certainly lead to a longer need for our efforts. This is a maximum of 220 people and until 31 December 2020 at the latest. The fact that it is at its longest, Madam President, is because it is a very volatile situation in Iraq. That is also why we in the committee make it clear that, when the situation so requires and at least once a quarter, we want to see a report from the government to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and therefore also the Committee on Defence. We know that big things can quickly happen that change the conditions. This was felt not least by the committee during the discussion of the matter. As the demonstrations in Iraq grew, and the disproportionate violence and killing of peaceful demonstrators became a fact, the question was naturally raised: What is happening? In what way do we ensure that our Swedish women and men, our Swedish contribution, cannot be perceived as part of the disproportionate violence taking place in Iraq? We have asked questions, and we have received clear answers. There is a clear distance between our efforts to train the Iraqi armed forces and the Iraqi police and the human rights abuses that we have seen taking place in Iraq for months now. It is important that that safety distance is provided. It is totally unacceptable that we again have over 400 civilians killed and over 17 000 injured when people have demonstrated for human rights, democracy, against corruption and for better development in Iraq. I'm not going to say that everyone may have had that as a starting point all the time. There may also be other elements. But in general we can see that there have been broad demonstrations and broad protests by civilians in Iraq with the aim of improving the state of affairs in the country. There is a risk that crimes have been committed by Iraqi police and Iraqi military. It is clear that the reasons behind this are many. It is a power struggle in the region, a power struggle in Iraq and the influence of other actions. However, it is important that the abuses that have been committed are investigated by the Iraqi authorities. We do not stand for impunity here at home or in Iraq. It is from this point of view that we have considered the question of the Swedish-Iraki citizen who was also Minister of Defence, or is still maintaining the position of Minister of Defence in the Iraqi Government. It is clear that it is Swedish law enforcement authorities that will investigate any crimes that have been committed here in Sweden under Swedish law. It'll take its course. For our part, neither that he has dual citizenship nor that any crimes have been committed that will be investigated in Sweden our view of the effort as such in the coalition against Daish. It is, of course, a question that we have asked ourselves and which has been and is important to us to what extent the outgoing Minister of Defence of the outgoing government has been involved in crimes against international law, crimes against humanity. It is not for nothing that there is a long history as general in Saddam Hussein's army. Clearly, we do not have the opportunity to examine all of this. Once again, however, it is important to point out that the kind of accusations that are coming must be investigated and to the bottom of as far as possible. Here, too, impunity should not apply. On our part, however, we have made an assessment on the basis of the answers we have received and on the basis of the numerous meetings we have had in the composite committee with both the Swedish Armed Forces and government representatives, from both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence and with ministers. We make the assessment that at this stage and the situation we are doing the best by fulfilling the mission we have taken on in the coalition and contributing to the educational effort receiving a Swedish contribution. It is also important because a Swedish contribution means that we have Swedish ears and eyes in place that can review and see if anything happens in the environment where these people are located. It is one of their missions as well as their mission to contribute to international law and human rights becoming part of the training of Iraq's security forces and police. Madam President, I would like I therefore call for the proposal of the composite committee to be approved.
i-eded400aa1fab400-1014	Madam President, I would like In order to contribute to increased capabilities of Iraq's defence forces, Sweden has been involved with military personnel in Iraq since 2015. As we know, the Islamic state and the supposed caliphate have been defeated. At the same time, militant jihadism and Islamism remain. The central government of Baghdad therefore considers that the international efforts need to continue, which means that the government proposes an extension of the mandate for the Swedish Force Grant. In parallel with the increasing Islamic influence, popular discontent is growing in Iraq. In autumn and winter, we have seen how this has developed into a serious political crisis, with the result that the Prime Minister has been forced to resign. The demonstrations are about increased living expenses. But it is also a protest against a deeply corrupt political system and, not least, the growing influence of neighbouring Iran. Tragically, the protests have been met with violence. The number of deaths is counted in hundreds, and the number of injured is far greater. This is to be condemned. Responsibility for the violence and civilian casualties rests heavily on the Iraqi Government. In the serious situation, it is urgent that the Iraqi people and the democratic forces operating in the country receive our support. If international action is needed in Iraq at some point, it is right now. If the coalition of countries in place can contribute to greater security and stability, it is important. Therefore, the Christian Democrats welcome the fact that Sweden, albeit to a small extent, is participating in the international coalition. We support the extension of the mandate while emphasising the importance of Swedish staff working with access to the best possible security and security. Here and now, on behalf of the Christian Democrats, I would like to express my thanks to the women and men in uniform who are currently carrying out – or who have previously carried out – the mission in Iraq. These efforts, in very difficult circumstances, are worthy of all respect. Madam President, I would like In the complicated picture of Iraq, Iran's increased influence is one of the most worrying. Politically and militarily, the Islamic Republic strengthens its grip on its neighbour. The Shiite militia force al-Shaabi al-Shaabi, with between 60 000 and 70 000 soldiers, is directly controlled, controlled and funded by the Tehran regime. This is with the agreement of the Baghdad Government. However, as in all other contexts where Iran acts to strengthen its regional influence, the consequences are directly devastating. Deepened sectarian contradictions, increased instability and severe human suffering follow. Christian communities are among the worst affected. Reports of harassment and persecution against Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans are becoming more common. The Iranian presence makes an already difficult existence even more difficult. Added to this is a so-called demographic change that changes the composition of the population. In cities and villages from which Christian families have fled and moved out because of IS genocide Muslim families move in. In several places around Mosul and the plain of Nineves, where Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans have been in the majority, Shia muslim Shabaker now takes over. The responsibility for stopping this ethnic cleansing of Christians lies with the political leadership of Baghdad. The Iraqi Government has the opportunity to take perhaps the single most important measure that can be taken at present – the one that would mean most to the Christian communities. It is about upgrading the Nineves plain to a province and then giving Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans the right to decide on their own future through political self-government. Such a measure is within the framework of the Iraqi Constitution and would allow Christian communities to build their own social institutions and have political autonomy with defence forces on their own. This is necessary in order for the hundreds of thousands of people who were forced to flee IS terror forces in 2014 to be able and dare to return. Political self-government is central. At the same time, it is clear that a secure future for Iraq's Christian groups cannot be built as long as Islamism poisons society. Changing attitudes and countering extremism and preventing religious persecution requires greater international engagement in Iraq. With working bilateral relations, with extensive assistance and now with extended participation in the international coalition, the Swedish government has the opportunity to speak directly with the political leadership in Baghdad. The Christian Democrats assume that the government will initiate such talks – given the situation – and that it will do so with the aim of contributing to the security and self-government of Assyrians, Syrians and Chaldeans in the historical areas where Christians have lived for centuries. With this, Madam President, I am in favour of the proposal in the report of the composite committee to approve an extension of the Swedish force contribution in Iraq.
i-eded400aa1fab400-1031	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking those who serve in Iraq on behalf of Sweden, those who have served and their relatives, who in their own way are also part of the operation. These people are worthy of all respect that this House could ever show. It is an extremely important contribution for Sweden but also for democracy and human rights in the world. Iraq is a country that is in a very complicated and difficult situation. There is a great and increasing impact from Iran. Daish – IS – regroups after its military loss in Syria and grows in many ways at least a little stronger. Iraq is also a country that is currently going through a period of turmoil. Democracy activists and people demonstrating for human rights and democracy are confronted with violence, abuse and non-democratic action. It is also the case that the situation with the Iraqi Minister for Defence has come up during the process when we have dealt with this matter in the composite committee. Our committee has nothing to do with whether this person has been fraudulent or anything else; it is highly irrelevant to a Swedish military operation abroad. On the other hand, the allegations of violations of international law that have been made against the person in question are relevant. The accusations made against the Minister contribute to the complex picture and the complex situation in Iraq. It is clear that the situation in Iraq does not look very calm or very good in the foreseeable future. I think it was the Swedish Democrats who earlier in the debate asked the Social Democrats if the Sossians could answer who is in charge of Iraq in a year's time. Of course they can't. That is an impossible question to answer, Madam President. In fact, there are quite a few Members in here who are unsure of who is running Sweden in a year's time, so to ask that you be able to answer who is running Iraq in a year's time is quite far-reaching for me. However, if I allow myself to speculate on what will happen in Iraq otherwise, Madam President, I do not believe that there will be a calm, peaceful, harmonious and democratic society that fully respects human rights within a year. On the contrary, Iraq has a long way to go. It is precisely for that reason that a country is demanding that the international community be present – precisely because we do not know with 100% certainty who is running Iraq in a year's time, precisely because we know that Iran is stepping up its presence, precisely because we know that Daish, or IS, is regrouping, precisely because we have a situation with a government that has just fallen and where members have been accused of crimes of international law and precisely because we see that demonstrators or human rights activists who are fighting for democracy are treated in a non-democratic way and meet with violence. That is precisely why, because of the chaotic situation and the complexity of the situation, there is a need for a military presence from the international community. It's no stranger than that. We in the Liberals have launched a follow-up motion on this matter. However, we have chosen not to highlight it in this House with a reservation, because it is important that we in the Swedish Parliament stand united behind our citizens who defend human rights and democracy in uniform. They need to feel our full and united support behind them, and that is why we will show that support by voting in favour of this effort. However, we have repeatedly highlighted, including in this case, the need for better follow-up and better, Evaluatable objectives. The chaotic situation that is why we need the operation is also why we need to follow the effort and developments in Iraq very closely. On the Liberal side, we are pleased that in committee and in the report we have taken important steps towards greater and better evaluation. It is good to have the ambition to have better goals, and it is very gratifying that we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, of course, the Committee on Defence will see this quarterly follow-up, which is also a consequence of the complexity of the matter. We would have liked this to be complemented by more and more Evaluatable, clear and measurable objectives. When you read the case, you can see that there are such ambitions. I hope that we will be able to take further steps in this direction. One last thing that I think is important for this House to have with us and for our continued commitment to Iraq is that the fact that we have moved our efforts, as we did last year, must not be seen as some sort of mark against Kurdistan's right to self-determination. This is an issue in which the Liberals have been involved for longer than many parties in the Swedish parliament have been involved in the Swedish parliament and where we continue to have a very strong commitment. Kurdistan and the Kurds have the right to decide their own future and to choose for themselves what their democracy should look like. It is important that the transfer and location made with the previous decision should not be seen as a mark against the right of the Kurds to determine their own future. We also support Assyrians / Syrians / Chaldeans' right to decide their own future. I look forward to Sweden being even clearer – because we are present in Iraq, we can make such demands – making demands on the Iraqi Government to safeguard its constitution, which says that it should be a federal country where these different parts should have the right to self-determination. Madam President, I would like Our presence in Iraq contributes to training in human rights and to combating Daish – that is the main objective of the operation. It can also contribute to Sweden gaining influence over and something to say about in the further development of Iraq. Once again, I would like to thank those who serve and have served in Iraq and their families. This is an important effort for Sweden.
i-eded400aa1fab400-1047	Madam President, I would like The operation in Iraq is one of Sweden's important international commitments. At the Iraqi invitation, we have chosen to participate in the military training operation carried out by the global coalition against Daish. Iraq has for a long time been a victim of the Da i sh terrorist movement and is now also affected by the tensions between Iran and the United States and by Turkey's involvement of armed forces in the region of Syria. This is an alarming development which is affecting many of the country's inhabitants. When a warlord can commit assault on innocent people, democracy and the rule of law lose legitimacy. The winners are those who want to base society on the right of the strong. This is not how we build a safe and just world, but how we create and underpin the opposite. Since 2017, Daish has been severely weakened in Iraq, but the situation is not yet stable and our efforts are now needed as before. Sweden's efforts against Daish consist both of this training effort by the military and of major efforts to build schools and healthcare, to stabilise society and to build reconciliation. Gender equality is a priority in Swedish development cooperation with Iraq. Iraq has a plan to implement UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. The work is slow, but here too Sweden's presence is important. Several million people in Iraq are in need of humanitarian aid, and 1.6 million people are on the run. For them, it is extremely important that all parts of Iraq become more stable and secure. The development that we have seen in the past autumn is very serious. We are following developments closely, and it is of the utmost importance to be able to provide security for the people of the country. We also look with great concern at the killing and harm done to those demonstrating in the streets for more democracy and human rights. I note that Sweden should be a partner of solidarity, credibility and responsibility in international crisis management operations that build security together with others. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in this report. I would like to conclude by thanking all those who are in Iraq every day for their greater security and stability. You Swedish men and women who have chosen to work in one of the world's most vulnerable countries every day make a great contribution for a lot of people. What you do means a lot to many – and to Sweden as a country. Many thanks to you, your loved ones!
