i-78f02675b5b2464b-4	Madam President, I would like So we are going to decide on the framework for next year's budget, and I call for the approval of reservation No 1. He fled from death, but then he died here instead. So said a relative of Jaffar, aged 15, who was recently murdered at a pizzeria in Malmö. It accurately sums up the situation in Sweden right now. The state does not have the ability to establish basic security. The map of recent bombings in Malmö is similar to that of a war zone. In the midst of all this lives well-mannered and hard-working people who are doing everything they can to contribute but who are now beginning to lose confidence in society's institutions. Worst case scenario, they've lost hope. Above all, insecurity has deepened and persisted. Madam President, I would like We are an economically rich country, but we have become poorer in security. Of course, it's not just the government's or the justice minister's fault. Yet it is they who have had the power to do something about this for five years, and it is still they who have the power to reverse developments. What needs to be done to combat insecurity and tackle gang crime, for example? Yes, you can start by introducing search zones, putting in security guards who support the police, lowering the limit for compulsory arrest, introducing crown witnesses, allowing witnesses to remain anonymous, and doubling the penalties for gang criminals. The list can be made long. There are many reforms that could make a difference. Above all, however, we must ensure that the judiciary and the police have the resources they need, and that is urgent. Madam President, I would like In their budget for next year, the Moderates spend four times as much as the government and support parties on police and justice. We are prioritising it over free years and increased aid. Here we are as a family, said an elderly lady I met a few weeks ago at a retirement home in Gråbo outside Lerum. She shone like a sun when she told me, and it warmed my heart. A lot of people feel just like her. However, I wish that even more elderly people who are in need of a place in a retirement home or who already live in a retirement home would feel that way, because that is security. It is also an example of when Swedish welfare really works. I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone who does their utmost every day to put golden edge on life around Sweden's retirement homes. Unfortunately, savings are now beginning in many of Sweden's municipalities. Demographics, high levels of immigration and a declining economic climate put pressure on municipalities and regions. Even in the country's schools, the savings are beginning to get into the business. Last Friday I visited a secondary school in Askersund, which gave two lasting impressions. One was amazing. Poor school scores had been reversed and significantly improved thanks to a very purposeful job. The second impression was that even here the savings began to eat in, because the money is not enough. We Moderates see what happens and face it in our budget exercise. Our conclusion is that the savings now suffered by patients, students and the elderly must be slowed down. The state must take greater responsibility for the financing of welfare. Therefore, we invest 9 billion more in general state grants to municipalities and regions than the government does. It is a budget that can make a difference for Sweden's students and the elderly. All this can be done if priority is given, and we give priority to welfare over free years and increased aid. Madam President, I would like We're probably heading into a recession. It's a boring sentence in many ways. One might think that we are already in one because integration works badly, unemployment is high, the crown is record weak and we have minus interest. The European Commission estimates that only Italy's economy will grow slower than Sweden's next year. What are we gonna do at that point? Take a break? No, Madam President, we must now have a full focus on growth by creating more jobs in the economy, and Sweden must focus on the work line. Sweden needs more people to work. We know that when the recession comes, it hits the hardest against those who are far from the labour market today. Therefore, it would have been good if the government had taken integration a little more seriously. More people should have come to work in recent years. What is the government's solution for those who have immigrated to Sweden to get into work, get co-workers and be able to support themselves? Stefan Löfven, who says he has not seen the problems coming, has on many occasions said that new arrivals can work on Sweden's hiking trails. In 2016 they were supposed to mark the hiking trails, 2017 was the announcement that new arrivals would renovate the hiking trails and just a few weeks ago the Prime Minister announced that new arrivals would clear the hiking trails. Honestly! It would be great if many new arrivals were allowed to work on hiking trails, but that is not my point. How many jobs do you think there will be? Real reforms are needed if we are to see more people in work. The Moderates have several parts of their reform package. The first concerns a tight immigration of asylum in the next year and many years to come. The second is about a premium ceiling that makes it impossible to stack contributions on each other. Just a few years ago, the government's own experts stated that it can pay better to live on grants than to work. It is good if you want to market Sweden as a grant country, but it is very bad if you want to manage integration. We also want to reduce the tax burden on low incomes, because we know that it has an impact on employment, especially for those who have not entered the labour market. We want to introduce language requirements. Language is the key to getting into social life as well as working life. Today, Sweden does not have a single requirement to learn the language. We want jobs with lower pay. We think apprenticeships would be good. We are eagerly waiting for the start-up jobs to come into place at some point, but they seem to be stuck at the Ministry of Labour. We also want to see vocational training. Learning a profession is an important part of having a chance to enter the Swedish labour market. Here you have, all four parties, packages that you could introduce tomorrow! Madam President, I would like There is also a need for more companies to grow. I believe that the issue of skills supply will be very central over the years to come. Let me say something briefly about our budget for this. We extend the expert tax, we lower marginal taxes and we invest in more teaching time in school. These are some important elements for Sweden to strengthen growth. I want Sweden to stick together. The commuter single assistant nurse who lives outside Piteå and who is completely dependent on his car to cope with both work and everyday life should not be forced to leave his home just because urban politicians are obsessed with raising petrol taxes. That is why we are reducing the tax on petrol in our budget, and that is why we are lowering the nurse's tax. You can not only talk about the whole of Sweden to live, but you also have to make sure that it is possible to live in the whole of Sweden. Keeping Sweden together is also about financial distribution – how a budget affects men and women. I can see that the budget that will probably win a hand here in the Swedish Parliament is a budget where men who earn a lot of money are the big winners. It does not benefit women pensioners, as the majority of them do not get a single crown in tax cuts with the government's budget. This concerns me. That's why we Moderates lower taxes for everyone who goes to work and for all pensioners. It's fair, and it's equal. Finally, Madam President, I would like to call on all the members of the opposition parties in this House to vote on the Moderates' budget when it is against the government. Our budget strengthens welfare, the police and the judiciary, establishes the work line and holds Sweden together. It is more equal, and it is fairer. It is simply a budget designed to solve Sweden's real problems. It stands against a budget designed to solve the problems of individual parties.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-31	Madam President, I would like I'll start by saying something nice. We are in complete agreement, Elisabeth Svantesson and I, on the need for the major investments that are now being made in the police force and in our rule of law. It is excellent and great that the political system can have a common and united front against crime and crime. Moreover, the expansion we are now making of, not least the police, is long-term and must be sustainable. Then it is important that there is broad political support here in Parliament. The same should apply to welfare. During the previous term of office, we put 35 billion more in government positions into municipalities and regions. In this year's budget, new billions will have to continue. When you listen to the Moderates, it seems that they agree with this policy, but when you look closer you see that it is not quite true. The new contributions are primarily targeted state subsidies, which have been converted into general grants. This in itself does not have to be wrong in substance– we do that in the bill– but it does not give more money to the sector. In addition, the Moderates pass on high costs from labour market policies, where they want to cut back. They also want to introduce the backlog in health insurance so that cancer patients are sent to the social services instead of receiving support. In addition, above all, they aim for money from those municipalities that have the greatest needs, often small municipalities that have taken great responsibility for new arrivals, instead of giving it to the richer municipalities, which have the best conditions, municipalities that also often dump their social problems, as they see it, on others with worse conditions. How does Elisabeth Svantesson justify this policy?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-36	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions. It is interesting when Social Democrats cannot read budgets. In our budget, we have a total contribution of 7.5 billion, which is 2.5 billion more than the government. It is not a redistribution of the targeted contributions. However, we do if they are aimed at more general, just like the municipalities I meet every week. So that is not true, and I think that the chairman of the Committee on Finance needs to read the budget a little more carefully. Then he can see that there will be more money for the municipalities with the Moderates' budget. I understand that it may be difficult for the Social Democrats, but that is the case. As far as overwhelming is concerned, I am happy to stop at that for the minute I have left. What is it that passes costs to the municipalities? A great deal of migration overwhelms a lot of costs. We know that after the establishment, the costs will be passed on to the municipalities. Overly generous family migration passes costs to municipalities. Lack of the work line in the Social Services Act passes on costs to municipalities. We want, and this is no secret, to have limits in both the unemployment fund and health insurance. What's this about? Well, it's not just that we forget people, but we want clear timelines and that people should receive support during both their sick leave and their unemployment so that they can get on to work. This has been our line all along, and it will continue to be. This is basically what strengthens the work line and strengthens the municipalities in the long term. To forget people in long sick leave is the Social Democrats quite good at, but we Moderates will never stand up for this.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-40	Madam President, I would like We have, of course, compared the budgets very carefully. It's not that simple, because the Moderates make it as difficult as possible to see what their policy really looks like. With the roll-over of costs that has in fact already begun through the major cuts in labour market policy that Svantesson is more responsible for than most in this House, we see that the opportunities for municipalities to finance their welfare are being eroded. We also see the great reversal. It is true that there is a debt of segregation that we want to break. But it is from the municipalities that have taken a great responsibility for Elisabeth Svantesson's migration policy that they take, and then they distribute to the municipalities that have the best conditions. How can such a policy be justified? And how can one, as party chairman Kristersson did the other day in today's industry, justify that it is right that the richest municipalities dump social problems on the poor?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-42	Madam President, I would like An untruth is no more true because you repeat it. We have more general state subsidies than the government has, because we see the needs of the country's schools, out in retirement homes and in our regions in health care. In addition, we switch targeted grants to general ones. What are the consequences? Yes, it strengthens the finances of municipalities in the years to come and affects those who live there. In addition, we lower taxes on petrol and make it more possible to live in rural areas and lower taxes for everyone who works in welfare businesses. We strengthen people and we strengthen Sweden with our policy. I'm proud of it, and I stand for it every day of the week.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-44	Madam President, I would like In her speech, Elisabeth Svantesson did not mention in a word the huge savings proposed by the Moderates in health insurance. 10 billion should be saved on sick people in order to reduce taxes on economically well-off people, especially men. To make a comparison, Ulf Kristersson is proposed to receive 10 000 in tax reductions each month, while a worker receives about 300 SEK a month. So sick people should pay for the tax reduction of healthy, well-behaved men. The Moderates state in their exercise that the person who is ill or injured and unable to work shall be entitled to compensation, care and rehabilitation. This sounds good, but apparently the compensation should be so low that the sufferer will also have financial problems or be poor. The Moderates call this incentive to start working, just like people get healthy from being poor. I do not know which sick people Elisabeth Svantesson knows who would not rather be healthy than sick. I don't know anyone. On the other hand, I know many sick people who are poor and who live in financial vulnerability. I hear countless stories about people denied the right to be ill, that is to say to be on sick leave. Broken teachers are denied sickness benefit, and worn-out nurses and construction workers are denied sickness benefit. These are the thanks that they have worn themselves out at work. And I hear about people going to work because they're sick because they can't afford a Karen's Day. But the Moderates are proposing savings of 10 billion. Let this sink in – 10 billion should be saved on sick people, just as if the pain and difficulties are not enough but they should also have financial problems. I would like to ask Elisabeth Svantesson how many people she knows who are ill by malice or who pretend to be ill or how many sick people are too well off financially.
i-NnnaYoEL3CQiU5wNaoDh3W	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ulla Andersson, for the question. It cannot be easy for Ulla Andersson, who has released a government that is now presenting a budget in which the majority of Sweden's female pensioners do not receive a tax reduction. Nor can it be easy for Ulla Andersson when the government only lowers taxes for those who earn the most. Of course, the questions that Ulla Andersson put to me and to which I am about to answer should also be addressed to the government that she has released herself and which has now been sitting for five years, because it is it who decides who will receive sickness benefit, when and how and not me. SEK 10 billion is about both the labour market and health insurance systems and not just about health insurance. But let me also make it very clear, which is no secret, that we Moderates have another way of looking at health insurance. We believe that you should get early intervention, that there should be a timeline and that there should also be a limit to how long you can be on sick leave in Sweden. If you are too sick to work, you should either go into an early retirement pension or receive another type of support. No, I don't know anyone who thinks you get too much money from health insurance. But I also know that driving forces play a role, and I know it matters what support you get. I realize that I now sound like a social democrat when I go back a little further in time. But we had very big problems with sick leave in the early 2000s. There were huge numbers of people on long-term sick leave who were retired early, even though they had the capacity to work. This we changed and broke this trend. It was very important, not least for the sake of people who actually had a chance to enter the labour market. It's not just about money; it's about how you look at people. I look at people in such a way that every person needs the support that he or she needs, both financial support and help to get on to work. We make the assessment in this budget that the levels we have laid down are working. Above all, however, people need support to get to work. It misses every left-wing party and every Social Democrat. The whole left misses this whole issue and leaves people in passivation.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-54	Madam President, I would like Unlike Moderates, leftists do not believe that being poor does make people healthy. It is a strong dividing line between Moderates and Left Partyists. We find it very difficult to understand how people's lives can be facilitated, how rehabilitation can be improved and how they can get back to the labour market faster by having to go and worry about their finances every day, except that they should worry about their illness. Many times they have a chronic reduction in work. The Moderates will think that the policies pursued in the field of social security are very good and even in the right direction, because they want to cut even more into health insurance than this government does. I intend to take as little responsibility for the policies that have been pursued as you did when you released this government in 2014. I believe that we have the right to criticise the policy pursued and that it is essential in a democracy. But I understand that the Moderates find it difficult to defend a policy that cuts 10 billion dollars on sick people.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-56	Madam President, I would like Apparently, it was a sore toe toe by letting a government that is very unequal and that invests in men. We don't. It's the Left Party that does. But we have different views on levels and how long you will receive benefits from health insurance and unemployment insurance. It's not a secret. We have had this discussion many times. But I really do not think that people will be happier or healthier by a certain level of compensation. What I think makes you happier about is getting support to come back, that someone sees you and cares and that you do not passivate year after year at home. In the years that this government has been in power, long-term unemployment has increased — in a boom of fire. People sit at home and are depressed. Then the level of compensation is not the most important. The most important thing is how to get an opportunity to come back.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-58	Madam President, I would like The economic situation in Sweden's municipalities has been strained for a long time. In the report that SKL – SKR says it now, Sweden's Municipalities and Regions – presented last month we see how this negative trend is further strengthened. Expenditure increases significantly more than revenue. Towards the end of this term, the difference between expenses and revenues amounts to SEK 38 billion. The following year, in 2023, it amounts to SEK 47 billion. We hear from the government that this is because we are getting older and that we are living longer and longer. Of course you can blame the old ones, that they haven't the sense to go and die in time. But it's not very sympathetic. Another explanation may be that we have an enormous proportion, which is neither young nor old, of working age that is not working. It is people of working age who, instead of contributing municipal tax revenue, receive municipal income support. Very many of these people are born abroad. The unemployment rate for natives is 3.8 per cent. Among immigrants from Asia or Africa, for example, unemployment is up to 30%. Among those enrolled with the Employment Service, which is either openly unemployed or has some form of activity support, the proportion of births outside Europe has increased from 10 per cent in the early 2000s to around 50 per cent today. This means that at least half of unemployment is imported. It could also have been an explanation of the extremely strained situation in which many municipalities today find themselves. But it may be easier to blame the elderly. The Swedish Democrats will help the municipalities in the situation they are in now. It is quite simply reasonable to allow the state to assume a much greater responsibility for financing for the simple reason that it is the government's policy that has put the municipalities in the strained position that they are now in. It is quite correct that it has the consequence that public debt is falling at a somewhat slower pace. That is a priority that we think is reasonable. However, this in itself has no bearing on surplus targets, on debt anchors or on the fiscal framework, as they aim at the accumulated public sector, thus gaining a stronger financial position in the Swedish democrats' budgetary options compared to the government. Madam President, I would like It is clear to us – I think I speak for the whole opposition, but you have to correct me if I am wrong – that the government has lost its grip on crime. Clearly, they are neither willing nor capable of dealing seriously with these deeply serious problems. Perhaps it is not surprising when the head of government himself says: We did not see it coming. Everyone else saw it coming, just everyone except the head of government and his minister. It's absolutely astounding. One could seriously pick 20 to 25 people randomly from the street and put them in charge of Sweden, and they would have done a better job than this government. Just that you cannot understand the link between crime and migration policy – you cannot ethnify crime, as the Prime Minister said – says so much. Of course, if you do not understand the root causes of the problem, you will not be able to solve the problem either. It is as if the alienation areas had looked exactly the same even if it only lived native born Swedes there, as that it is in some way precisely these places – small delimited geographical areas around the territory of Sweden – which in some incomprehensible way are haunted and condemned, such as that there is some deep and diabolical curse just on these small demarcation areas. When it comes to income inequality and unemployment, it is like less well-off people – poor people – have worse morals than people with a lot of money. Of course, that is not the case. The vast majority – almost all – who receive unemployment benefits and are unemployed do not look for an automatic carbine and start killing people. They are busy looking for a new job, perhaps taking a course or additional training to make themselves more employable and strengthen their position in the labour market. Madam President, I would like First of all, of course, it is the person, the natural person, who is the victim of this crime who has to pay the very highest price. But there is an additional dimension to this, namely that it affects the business community. It affects companies' willingness to expand or to establish themselves at all. It affects the ability to attract the right kind of labour force, because of course no one wants to live or work in an area where people die in shootings and bombings. The Swedish Democrats provide the resources needed for all law enforcement authorities to restore law and order. Madam President, I would like Sweden undoubtedly has the single most lax and undemanding regulatory framework for labour migration from all over the world. While other European countries are in principle solely looking for highly skilled, highly skilled workers from other countries, the trend in Sweden is directly opposite. The proportion of low-skilled labour migrants is steadily increasing, and now only about four out of ten are highly educated. It is about berry pickers, dishwashers, kitchen assistants, and many have a salary as low as $15,000 a month. Then, of course, the question must be asked: how is this socio-economically justified? That at the margin it becomes somewhat easier for the individual company to be able to recruit from just around the world with almost no reservations at all I can of course have understanding and also respect for, but at the same time we have a large and growing unemployment here in Sweden. We have free movement in the Nordic Passport Union, and we also have free movement of labour within the EU. What is being done with this policy is to increase competition among people who already have a weak position in the labour market and who already have only one or perhaps only half a foot inside the labour market. Those with a little higher education, for whom there is a clear demand, will manage, but those with a little lower education and with less experience and qualifications will suffer. If I have not understood the matter quite wrongly, Madam President, there is a clear majority in this House to tighten up on this lax regulatory framework. Why are the Social Democrats so incredibly passive? The Swedish Democrats are prepared, together with the parties that are interested, to try to gather a majority and move forward with stricter demands – either directly here in Parliament or by forcing the government to act. I believe and hope that a majority can be gathered in favour of such a line. Then the Social Democrats will have to explain to their voters and the trade union movement why they think it is a good idea to have the Western world's most demanding regulations for labour immigration. That's not my problem. Had we set a limit on at least the median salary, the strain on welfare might not have been so felt. However, since wage demands are as low as SEK 13 000 per month and since tax revenues are thereafter – and because these people, as well as their relatives, are in need of welfare – the low-skilled labour migration places additional strain on Swedish welfare beyond the regular asylum immigration. It is a policy that is incredibly unempathetic and unsympathetic towards all those with a relatively weaker position in the labour market. Madam President, I would like I support the Swedish Democrats' reservations Nos 2 and 6.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-74	Madam President, I would like Oscar Sjöstedt mentioned the finances of municipalities in his speech. Over the last few days, we have seen reports that eight out of ten municipalities are planning cuts next year, which is of course very serious. In August, Oscar Sjöstedt and his party leader in Expressen wrote about this problem. Among other things, they wrote that we will not sedentaryly look at small communities being torn apart and driven to the economic abyss. ..................................................... Oscar Sjöstedt and Jimmie Åkesson also had a number of proposals, and since it was Swedish democrats who wrote, it was of course about immigration. Citizenship would be upgraded, and they wrote that additional resources would be required for the municipalities from the state. That is why I am a little curious to have read the draft budget of the Swedish Democrats. While you want to raise the municipal grants by EUR 5 billion, Oscar Sjöstedt, there is also a series of cuts that are to a large extent affecting the municipalities. I am therefore interested in hearing how you think. No establishment allowance shall be paid to new arrivals; there you take in 2 1⁄2 billion. Nearly 30 000 new arrivals are at risk of receiving supply aid. Labour market measures such as start-up and start-up jobs halve, which gives 2.6 billion. Already here there are 5.1 billion reductions. All this will not be loaded onto the municipalities, but very much. Then labour market policy measures are reduced by a further EUR 4 1⁄2 billion and, in addition, municipal reception allowances for refugees are reduced by EUR 4.2 billion. It is therefore a total of 13 billion, most of which are at risk of landing in the municipalities' laps. How does this prevent municipalities from being driven to the economic abyss?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-79	Madam President, I would like That is quite correct: we are moving forward with strong reinforcements of the municipal sector gathered in Sweden. We have listened to SKL, as the organization was called then, and what they say the needs will be. We adapted our budget exercise to what SKL says the needs are. These needs are simply about maintaining the current level of well-being, and then it would probably have to be done even more – I do not think that either I or Jakob Forssmed are very pleased with what the situation is today. Then came a new report from SKL after we presented our budget, and we will have to come back to that later. However, it is quite correct that the start-up allowance and the municipal allowance are significantly reduced. This is linked to the fact that we have a completely different focus on migration policy overall. After all, our approach is far more restrictive than the lax approach of the present government and its obedient parties. This will reduce the need for start-up compensation and localisation, for the simple reason that fewer people come to the country. So for the municipalities it is a zero result, you might say. We are very critical of all the types of subsidised employment that have been introduced, such as entry and start-up jobs. They have been reviewed and evaluated so many times by different types of authorities, and the effect is very low. We believe it is better labour market policy to invest in small and growing companies. If we remove some subsidised employment, we can reduce the employer's contribution for the small and growing companies in particular, and then jobs will come that way instead. We believe that this is a much more effective labour market policy.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-83	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Oscar Sjöstedt! That is logical reasoning in its own way, but the problem is that people already exist. It is not possible, as it were, to make them disappear, even if you want to. The municipal compensation is available to cover the costs for people who are here. Therefore, it will be very problematic to say that a large amount of resources will be allocated to the municipalities if they are taken back – especially when it comes to municipalities that have received many new arrivals. I do not think that this argument really holds together, especially when plus and minus are as far apart as in the alternatives of the Swedish Democrats. However, Oscar Sjöstedt is happy to develop this further.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-85	Madam President, I would like That is quite correct, and Jakob Forssmed is absolutely right – the people exist. That is why we are not removing this; if you look at local government funding, you can see that we are not removing 100% of that funding already starting on 1 January 2020. Instead, it is gradually being scaled down, because we too understand that there will be time. Even if there were to be extra elections tomorrow and the Swedish Democrats got 51 percent, I understand that it would take some time to turn the ship around, so we need to do this gradually. If you look at our budget motion, you can also see that the cuts take place over time and not instantaneously, at once. Jakob Forssmed is therefore quite right that the people are there, and the municipalities are definitely there. People also live in socially-governed, rather misplaced municipalities, and we cannot leave them there. We feel that we need to take responsibility for them too, and that is why we are making the large contributions to the municipalities.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-87	Madam President, I would like The Swedish democrats often talk about integration and above all about the shortcomings. In fact, however, they want integration to fail. It is very clear from their budget, where they cut down on – or even remove – the money for the efforts made. However, their policies do not just strike, as they want to point out, at people seeking asylum or protection — against people on the run. It is a classic right-wing manoeuvre, for this policy strikes hard from a class perspective. It is obvious for a right-wing party like the Swedish Democrats to deny that class and economic divides would have an impact on crime. It turns a blind eye to research and the world around it, where it can be seen that countries with major economic gaps also have a high level of crime. This is done in order to blame the genes of some people from certain countries – genes that should be haunted and condemned, as Oscar Sjöstedt put it, by crime. It's racism. To move on to what they do that strikes very hard from a class perspective, you can say that the Swedish Democrats want the unemployed and early pensioners to pay almost twice as much in tax as a healthy person with a job. They substantially reduce support for primary schools in socio-economically vulnerable areas, making it more difficult for the children of workers and those with a low level of education to pass school. This increases the risk of vulnerability and unemployment. The risks to the young of the working class are increasing. They remove the student start-up allowance, which is intended for the unemployed to be able to enter upper secondary school education. They'll probably slaughter Arbetsförmedlingen one more step, if that's possible. They want to remove the salaries of 2 000 employees at the Employment Service, and they halve the labour market policy programmes. It should be difficult to be ill or unemployed and to have parents with working background in Sweden Democrats Sweden.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-95	Madam President, I would like I do not know if I understood any question, but we can at least note that Mr Andersson has quite a lively imagination. When has Ulla Andersson ever heard me stand in the speaker's room talking about genetics? I never have. I never will. What I do note, however, is that I do not believe in the claim that poor people have worse morals than rich people. I do not buy that analysis – absolutely not. It is also an unsympathetic analysis, which says that anyone who loses his job goes and becomes a criminal, kills people, rapes and kills. I know many people who have lost their job; they have not become criminals. I don't buy this at all. Then there was quite a bit of incoherent stuff. At least I understood that there was something about taxes. I did not quite understand the question, but I can see that what we are making with regard to fiscal policy removes the gap between wage earners and pensioners. We see pensions as deferred wages, and pensions should therefore be taxed as wages. This is also the case. Ulla Andersson has released a government that is unable to remove the tax gap between employees and pensioners, and pensioners then have a little higher tax than employees. We think this is wrong; that is why we are removing it. As far as the Employment Service is concerned, we'll see how it goes. I am not very impressed by the government's lack of – what should we call it – impact assessment in its approach to phasing out or reforming the Employment Service. I am absolutely convinced that the Employment Service is not needed in its current form. It is not just an opinion that I have grasped from the air, but there is quite a lot of support there. The benefits in relation to wagered crowns are quite low, and I think this is an ineffective policy. I want to make better use of taxpayers' money.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-102	Madam President, I would like One wishes that the Swedish Democrats' budget motion was a fantasy. In fact, the Swedish Democrats want the unemployed to pay almost twice as much in tax as healthy people who are lucky enough to have a job. You want early retirement pensioners to pay almost twice as much in tax as people who are healthy and who can go to work. In fact, you are halving the opportunities for the unemployed and the long-term unemployed to get help and support to get back into work. In fact, you are removing almost three quarters of the funding for socio-economically vulnerable schools. It is a class policy that strikes very hard. You are removing the support for the unemployed who are supposed to be able to study upper secondary education. Low levels of education are the main cause of unemployment. Oh, Oscar Sjöstedt : You spoke about genes in your speech. You blame crime on immigrants. What is it if not to claim that people from some countries have certain genes that make them criminals? You deny research, and you deny your world.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-107	I would remind Members that we are speaking through the President of the House. That goes for everyone.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-108	Madam President, I would like Mr Andersson is a little confused. After all, it is difficult for the unemployed for a number of reasons, not least economically. Therefore, we strengthen the unemployment fund strongly, with 1,200 SEK per day. I also think that the unemployment fund should be centralised and administered at government level in order to achieve an increased degree of equivalence across the country and across all sectors. We think that is a wise policy. We can talk about income inequality and inequality. Those who have the worst are the poor older. It's almost just a bunch of old ladies-- there's a couple of men too, but they're mostly old ladies. It's the guarantee pensioners. There the government came forward with 200 kroner. Instead, we say SEK 1 000; it is included in our budget. And so it goes on. If you look at our budget and at the distribution of the reforms that exist there, it is clear that it is the groups with the lowest incomes that are most strengthened. We think that is a wise policy.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-112	Madam President, I would like It's an experience to listen to Oscar Sjöstedt. It is a language and a tone reminiscent of what is heard from the extreme right wing of other countries, such as Hungary or during the Brexit campaign in the UK, or of how Donald Trump describes his fellow human beings and fellow debaters. It's very strange. In addition, Oscar Sjöstedt is as fact-based as those he is inspired by. He claims to be investing in welfare. Jakob Forssmed, however, showed very clearly in his reply what the Swedish Democrats are actually doing: They are rolling over large costs at the municipalities. Whether it is a matter of labour market policy or of cutting down on the start-up allowance or local government provision, the net – everyone who looks at this – is aware of major cost increases that have to be financed by taking from welfare, from care for the elderly and from school. That is how it will be; we all know that. But Oscar Sjöstedt is trying to deny this. In addition, this is also a shift from the municipalities that have the toughest conditions to the municipalities that have the best educated, to those that have the highest wages and to those who earn the most. This is how Sweden's democrats beat politics. This is what happens when you remove Delmos and when you remove the resources for the municipalities that have done the most. This is what happens when you re-weight between local government and other efforts. That's how you beat. That's how politics beats. Is this because you are now to adapt to the Moderates to be involved in forming government with them eventually, or are you standing up for this yourselves? Is it your innermost desire to increase the gap in this way and to hit the welfare in the way you describe, Oscar Sjöstedt?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-117	Madam President, I would like This is a little symptomatic for the Social Democrats. Delmos is the Delegation against segregation. Am I right out there? We have a big and incredibly serious social problem that we have had for a long time and is getting worse. The standard response of the social democrats is that we set up an authority, so it can solve the problem. ..................................................... This was just a small reflection, Madam President. I am not as saved in this view as Fredrik Olovsson is. Let's just drop it for now. I do not understand very much; even the chairman of the Committee on Finance is a little confused today. We clearly support the changes in the municipal equalisation system that the government was making. It is in any case my picture – correct me and I am wrong – that it increases the resources for the municipalities that have the toughest with what is called sparsely populated areas, in practice the number of people divided by the area of the municipality. Municipalities with few people spread over a larger area get a little more money. We know that such municipalities are having a difficult time. Municipalities that are burdened with high sickness rates receive some supplements with this change. The socio-economic background is also relevant. If you have an average lower income in a municipality, you gain a little from this. I want to be very clear that we support the changes so that these municipalities benefit, so I do not understand Fredrik Olovsson's entrance at all. And of course the local government sector becomes a big net winner with the budget motion that we will vote about later this afternoon. We live up to what SKL says it needs.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-122	Madam President, I would like It is very clear that Oscar Sjöstedt does not understand that it naturally hits the local government sector hard if you do what the Swedish Democrats are proposing in their budget exercise and cut 10 billion in the labour market, remove the municipal allowance for new arrivals and remove the establishment allowance and pass on the costs to the municipalities. But it does not strike the balance over all municipalities, because those with the best conditions, those with the richest, have not taken responsibility and do not need these government efforts. Oscar Sjöstedt does not understand and cannot therefore ensure that we have welfare throughout the country.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-124	Madam President, I would like We remove the grants linked to new arrivals, and we may not have so many new arrivals. Maybe that's the difference. After all, you are pursuing such a lax and unconditional migration policy. What you do not understand is that it has an impact on crime and the finances of municipalities. If you don't see it, you're blind. But obviously you are, because you don't see it coming. You're all blind. Maybe you should go to Specsavers. Yes, it is quite correct that we are cutting a great deal at labour market policy, at labour market policy measures and at the Public Employment Service. And why do we do that? Because it does not have effects. There won't be that many new jobs in relation to the money invested. Your labour market policy is ineffective, expensive and ineffective. We don't buy it.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-127	Madam President, I would like First a reflection: It is actually incomprehensible to me that the Swedish Democrats year after year do not develop any policy for all the new ones that have come to Sweden. I share the view that we need a very tight migration policy for the years to come. But we also need to have a good policy that allows those who have received a yes to enter Swedish society and working life. I know that we do not want to use the word integration policy. Call it anything, but there is a need for policies and reforms that will allow more people to enter the Swedish labour market, and I mentioned several of our proposals in my speech. But that was not what I was going to ask about, but it was my reflection on the previous lines. I would like to talk briefly about something quite different. The Swedish democrats say they want to reach 2.5 per cent of the bnp when it comes to defence. Those are big words. Unfortunately, one sees nothing of this in their budget, but the Swedish Democrats settle on exactly the same level as the Left Party and the Green Party to the defense. My simple question, then, is: Why do the Swedish Democrats not invest more in the Swedish defence if they now have this high objective?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-130	Madam President, I would like You have to call it integration policy. I have no problem with that at all. But let's leave it at that. I will try to answer the question, but I have to admit that the recent tours of the defence economy have made me a little confused. There have been a lot of numbers back and forth from various politicians, the Swedish Armed Forces, the Commander-in-Chief, journalists, experts and general opinioners. We think that the report produced by the Swedish Defence Committee was very good and well thought out. It also came with a bill. We were early out and said: We are prepared to pay the bill, because we need this. That is about what we understood the government, C and L were prepared to do with the budget they went forward with. Therefore, our budget in this particular area of expenditure is not very different from that of the four parties. That is the short answer. Later we have concluded that it was not secured by value, because there is inflation, a rise in prices. Of course it must be secured; of course it must be. Then I must admit that I do not dare to answer what is right and what is wrong. I have no problem with that, because I think I share the picture with many of the fact that various amounts have been thrown out – 30 billion, 55 billion, 40 billion – which are missing. In addition to the list drawn up by the Swedish Armed Forces, which is a political preparation, the Swedish Armed Forces have added additional items on their own and thrown another number. Then you get a little confused. But we are prepared to deliver the total amount of space that the Defence Committee's report costs.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-134	Madam President, I would like You have to be up-to-date, says Oscar Sjöstedt. And we really must, because this is about the budget for next year and not about the defence committee's budget for the years to come. The Moderates have responded to the defense's request to be able to do more exercises, to have more material and to strengthen general defence capabilities. We, as a party, add more than 500 million more in the budget for next year to the response, because it is simply necessary. The answer given by Oscar Sjöstedt cannot explain why the Swedish Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have ended up on the same side of the defence budget for next year. Madam President, I would like I shall conclude by making another motion. I realise now that we are talking about the budget for next year that not only the direction of economic policy but also the framework decision itself is important. That is why, on behalf of the Moderates, I support reservation 5.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-138	Madam President, I would like I don't really think we have a huge non-consensus here, because I understand that the Moderates are also behind the Defence Committee's report. Then the Social Democrats seem to be very confused today – something has happened, and I don't know what – when it comes to funding the report. The Moderates chose to leave the Defense Committee, because it is unserious to talk defence policy and completely leave the economic dimension. I can understand that. We had a discussion and came to the conclusion that it was probably better to sit around than to drop out and then see what it came out of. You can do it in different ways. But I am not entirely sure that we are diametrically different here, because I have understood that the Moderates are also behind the excellent report presented by the Defense Committee.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-141	Madam President, I would like After the previous confused speech, I can see that some people want us to believe that the country is being torn apart because we originate in different countries, have different mother tongues, different religions or come from different cultures. But that is not the reason, it is that an economic elite has been able to shoe at the expense of everyone else, because that is what politics has prioritised and allowed. How else could it be that 184 billionaires own as much as half of Sweden's bnp, while one in five children is forced to grow up with low economic standards? Otherwise, how can it be that some can afford breakfast at one of the city's fancy hotels, while some 90 000 people are estimated to live in food poverty and not even have food on the table every day of the month? How else can it be that Åke in Danderyd will get another tax cut, while Elin is forced to walk around freezing because her mother cannot afford to buy her a new winter jacket? Otherwise, how could it be that we allow people to take insurance policies that allow them to take the lead in health care, while others are not even allowed to be on sick leave despite illness? How else can it be that four out of five municipalities are forced to save the school while we remove the military tax? How else can it be that we let employees in welfare wear themselves out while we do not tax large inheritances or wealth and tax subsidies private cleaning in Djursholm? The focus of politics in recent decades has been on increasing economic inequality, prioritising the best in society and strengthening the class society. And as it would not be enough for us to have increased the economic gap most among the OECD countries in recent decades, the 73-point group headed by the Social Democrats is of the opinion that we should speed up further. However, general welfare is a central part of the Swedish model and is seen as a success for Sweden. Both the OECD and the IMF call it our main competitive advantage. Yet there seems to be an eagerness to prune it heavily, because in some other way the budget proposal cannot be interpreted. Inequality is apparently to increase, and savings packages on savings packages in welfare roll forward with tremendous consequences for children, young, old, sick, disabled and all of us in need of welfare. This is being done at the same time as new tax reductions are being implemented for those who are already in the best position. It is just as if tax cuts would be more important than good staffing for the elderly in retirement homes or than school, health care, field assistants in the city, travel services, substance abuse care, cultural schools, night ice and all that is saved on. The list is almost endlessly long. While the Social Democrats prioritise well-behaved men in Danderyd and while they choose tax cuts before welfare, we in the Left Party prioritise the pre-colleagues, children, old and welfare. Left Party Budget Movement A plan for equality and green transition shows that another policy is possible. It is a policy that makes Sweden more equal, safe, green and fair. The Left Party believes that it is reasonable for high income earners like Åke in Danderyd to pay more in income tax. We want to tax large fortunes and large inheritances, introduce progressive capital taxation, scale down interest deductions and allow homeowners in Danderyd, Djursholm and Lidingö to pay much more in property tax than a homeowner in Kiruna does for his small wooden hut. At the same time, we are reintroducing the principle of equal tax in the case of equal income. It is not reasonable that those who have the bad luck of being ill should also pay the most in taxes. We also lower the tax on those who earn less than 30 000. We are simply using the tax system to redistribute from high to low wage earners, unlike the Social Democrats who have lost faith in using the tax system for redistribution. Through our tax proposals, we thus gain income to build Sweden more equally. Mr President, I would like to For us, welfare activities are central. That is why the shortage of staff is so important to solve. We are therefore proposing a major reform of 50 billion over ten years in which the state takes responsibility for ensuring that welfare has the staff it needs and pays for it. We believe that the so-called Dala model of workplace-integrated learning should be used for the whole country. It means that you study part-time and work part-time on a contractual salary, and it should apply to shortage professions such as nurses, socionomists, teachers, nurses, preschool teachers and others. Studying without having to take out student loans would be a benefit that would also ensure that welfare would have more employees, and that is needed. We are also investing in giving older people more resources for more employees and more training, so that stress can be reduced and more time given to the old person's care. We want to invest in home-cooked food in home care, because you should be able to smell and get freshly cooked food even though you can no longer cook it yourself. You shouldn't have to eat micro-heated food day in and day out. The early ages in school are seen in research and in reality as very crucial. That's why we put our biggest resource supplements for the school right there, as well as the preschool and recreation centres. Group sizes should be able to be reduced or staff density increased; more time should be given to each individual child. The local government sector will receive 20 billion next year in both general and targeted state grants, such as extra money for rural health care, because we want to secure welfare funding Today, many people are forced to refrain from going to the dentist. Between 2017 and 2018, only 52 per cent of people with low income went to the dentist, while 82 per cent of those with a high income went to the dentist. In fact, people with low income are forced to pull their teeth out more often as they cannot afford root canal filling. Class is important in so many ways, and therefore we propose high cost protection in dental care. It should cost a maximum of 2,000 SEK per year to go to the dentist. Do you know that it would actually cost less than RUT? What is most important: tax-subsidised private cleaning in Danderyd and Djursholm or healthy teeth for everyone? The answer should be simple, in any case it is simple for the Left Party. Mr President, I would like to Anyone who claims to stand up for the Swedish model should be very worried when they see what happens in health insurance. The fact that people are not allowed to be on sick leave even though they are ill or that chronic illness and therefore chronically impaired work capacity means poverty is a disgrace to our welfare country. The health insurance must therefore be repaired and the sickness benefit increased significantly. In our budget, the income of the person with the highest guarantee is increased by SEK 2,300 per month, since that person also receives a substantial tax reduction. I can promise you it'll make a difference. If you have 10 000 kroner a month in income, every penny is welcome. So it makes a very big difference. We also propose that the guarantee pension be increased substantially, by SEK 1 000 per month. We propose free medicines for all over 80 years of age, and we propose that security alarms should be free of charge. It is not reasonable that, as an old person, you should have to twist and turn every penny and still have to ask your children for financial help or to give up social life with your friend or give gifts to your grandchildren. We simply want you to have a dignified and safe life when you grow old. The Left Party also has the biggest investment in the climate, a real green transition. We propose a massively expanded public transport system with reduced charges so that more people will choose the bus, metro or tram. We also make a special, targeted investment in rural public transport, charging infrastructure and conversion support for cars. We are introducing support for the installation of solar cells on the roof of public buildings. Support is also provided for greener agriculture and locally produced food. We are cutting down on motorway construction in Stockholm to make investments on rail across the country, because we take climate change seriously. Mr President, I would like to Either you pour new and larger RUT grants over the richest in society, lower taxes for wealthy men in Danderyd and save on economically vulnerable and welfare as the 73-point gang does – a country that is torn apart. Or you invest in building a more equal society, which combats segregation and poverty and redeployment. They invest in welfare and green transition, as the Left Party does, for a Sweden for all, not a few, and for a Sweden that stays together.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-165	Mr President, I would like to Last parliamentary term, the Left Party had to try a lot of its health policy. Then we could see dramatically longer care queues in Sweden. One reason for that was that the queue billion was removed. Now it is to be reintroduced in an updated and improved version, thanks to the M-KD budget. This is also something that the government and the January parties have adopted. This, however, has not sunk into the Left Party. The Left Party's draft budget removes almost 3 billion from compensation for reducing care queues. It is compensation that will increase the availability of healthcare.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-168	Mr President, I would like to Medical care suffers from a shortage of staff. That's why care places are being shut down. It is the shortage of staff that is the basic reason why you cannot cope with the care queues. I think Jakob Forssmed knows that in essence. The Left Party received EUR 2 billion through the last parliamentary term for an extra investment in health care workers to enable, for example, better schedules, more people to be hired or, overall, better working conditions and wages. In our own budget, we are also spending much more on health care staff rather than spending the money on a cue billion. The Left Party is investing a great deal in health care, because it is a fundamental issue for us. We think we need to solve the staff shortage. That is also why we are proposing a major training effort, that is to say 50 billion over ten years in order to train to the shortage professions. Solving the shortage of staff must surely be the most fundamental thing, because then we will also solve the crisis in health care. If I were Jakob Forssmed, I would probably be a little quiet, because it is well that the right is in control in most regions today. What does it look like here in Stockholm with the deficits that exist? Aren't the Christian Democrats involved in deciding on New Karolinska and the major reductions in staff in various hospitals? Aren't you the ones who rule with the Moderates here in Stockholm? Is it not you who always prioritise reduced tax in Stockholm before good health care?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-172	Mr President, I would like to Now, for example, Stockholm County Council does not have very low taxes. But if the question is whether we are in control in many places, the answer is yes. That question was easy to answer. Ulla Andersson, on the other hand, does not answer the question. Why are you abolishing the tool that has proved to be working? SKL has said that it works and that it was necessary to focus on this. In an evaluation, the National Board of Health and Welfare has shown that it works. This is the question. I don't mind more resources. We also provide more resources: to staff, to an investment in rural areas to solve the human resources situation there, just as the Left Party does, to more training places and so on. This tool means that you get performance-based benefits that you can use for example for more staff but that keep the focus on accessibility. What we have seen with your policy is doubled care queues.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-176	Mr President, I would like to Doubled care queues surely know a lot about when you are in the regions, because that's where it's determined what the care queues look like. I remember – perhaps not Jakob Forssmed does – a number of debate articles where the profession went out and questioned the queue billions. It was thought that multi-sick elderly and chronically ill people got caught up when more affluent people got ahead of the queue, i.e. the queue billions meant that the principle of need-driven health care was abandoned. That principle is central to us. That is why we think it is better to spend money on health care, to ensure that employees have better working conditions, so that they stay and do not run away, and to ensure that you get better salaries and that you can study and get paid in the meantime. Then more people will choose these professions. It is still the most crucial thing for how we should handle queues and the needs of sick people in the future.
i-UZodhj81rQwZn6LkR2FkeW	Mr President, I would like to I support reservations 4 and 8 in the report. We see clouds of unrest in the economic sky, with trade wars, Brexit, escalating conflicts in the Middle East and China taking on ever greater freedoms in expanding their freedom. We see a growing national egoism that challenges international collaboration, while the EU finds it difficult to get together and become a force of counterweight and global leaders. In the tracks of this, polarization and conflict increase. The fight against poverty and climate change is made more difficult. Democracy and human rights are in danger of being repressed. But this national egoism also affects the international economy, trade and belief in the future. It can add to the gloomier economic outlook, which poses major economic risks and can hit a small trade-dependent country like Sweden. Mr President, I would like to We also have our domestic problems, which are at risk of deepening when the economic cycle turns around. People on the labour market end up further away from a working community. There's no room for you. Municipality after municipality is now making cuts that affect elderly care. Sick elderly people get worse when loneliness crawls along the walls while waiting for a retirement home. There's no room for you. 122 000 people have been waiting illegally for treatment in a healthcare system that is not working. There's no time for you. Mr President, I would like to The welfare staff in Kommunsverige sound the alarm about unreasonable working conditions. Municipalities are struggling with failing economics. There are too many school failures that reinforce exclusion. Dreams and growth are threatened when ordinary wage earners cannot move to the new job because they cannot find their own home. The long - growing crisis of security has now come to an end. The shadows go further. Mr President, I would like to Reforms and priorities are now needed. The budgets of the Moderates and Christian Democrats began to do so and provided considerable resources for health care, police, defence and municipalities. There were more training places and removed special payroll tax for older workers. Wide groups received reduced tax on labour, which benefits more jobs, but also reduced tax on pensions. We added resources to more retirement homes and major care reforms. But more is needed. The January parties can't do the job. Priorities that should be based on a common social analysis have been replaced by a kind of political vigour. When the party Prestige projects are to be ticked off, it is the welfare and security that gets to pick up the bill. Instead, we will have military tax abolition, entry deductions, rent-fixed building subsidies, climate-inefficient measures and so on. This is a kind of priority deficit that goes hand in hand with an escape from responsibility. Parties should implement policies they have been fighting for decades. Someone else wanted this, not us. It was the others who stopped the money for the municipalities, they say. What does that do with confidence in politics? And how is confidence affected when the new welfare efforts are actually fig leaves in front of a rather naked budget body? The big stakes in care for the elderly, about which press meetings were held, basically meant renaming already existing money. If we add up our amending budget and the budget proposal, we are actually talking about cuts that mean hundreds of millions less to retirement homes, even though the Ministry of Finance has pointed out a shortage of tens of thousands of places by 2026. The school received the same treatment. Debate articles were written about five new welfare billions, but they were all announced and already entered with the M-KD budget. These are January illusions that are seen through when they face reality. 25 billion in reform space had the government, but hardly anything new to the municipalities. There were the most cuts left to distribute. We see it in the municipality by municipality. We Christian Democrats have different priorities. We spend a total of 8.9 billion more than the government on welfare and security next year. We see that the local government crisis is both an economic crisis and a staffing crisis. That is why we are making a 3.4 billion investment in care for the elderly, of which 2.6 billion is spent on elderly care, which is now threatened by sick leave and stress. In our proposal, municipalities will benefit from this money if they improve their active efforts to reduce shared tours and have reasonable management responsibilities, good employee satisfaction and increased participation. In addition to this, we focus on opportunities for professional development and career paths for the care staff with further training in, for example, dementia and multi-disease. We reintroduce and extend the investment in continuity of personnel, which the government deleted, in order to increase the opportunities for staff to do a good job and for more people to want to join the profession. But we also continue to invest in better social content and increased awareness of dementia. We want to make a big effort on retirement homes. We've got to get this shortcoming out of here. In particular, shelters with Community opportunities can counter the loneliness that is so harmful to health. The moderate and Christian-Democratic budget made a huge contribution to health care. Among other things, new queue billions and standardised healthcare courses were introduced for more diseases, and large general resources were added to prepare a primary care initiative. To this the Christian Democrats now want to see further reforms: more available care places, funds to improve patient law, support for care in sparsely populated areas and, not least, more resources to restore LSS. We need to increase accessibility in health care. I can tell you that I personally feel an extra need for it today. We need to make major investments in the supply of skills. We propose a degree bonus for those who pass their education in a short time so that they get out faster with their skills in the workplace. We also need to reinforce the ability and drive to work if you can and want when you are older. We need to invest in vocational training, and we need a study aid reform that allows for more retraining and to invest in a new career later in life. Mr President, I would like to Security must be restored step by step. Then it is not good enough to under-finance the police, the prosecutors, the courts and the penitentiary. We Christian Democrats are denouncing what the authorities have requested, and we are devoting more than that to enable them to increase their physical presence throughout the country. As an example, we want to open a number of new district courts. But we also want to streamline the police's tasks and increase prevention. We believe that the 15 000 police calls for suicide attempts made last year can often be made better by psychiatric ambulances. That is why we are putting great emphasis on it in our budget. It relieves the police and improves the care of people in need. We propose more resources for collaboration between school, social services, police and fritis to stop young people at risk of crime. We invest in method support and training for social services, more family homes and better lock-out. We devote a total of almost EUR 2 billion to the judicial system and to crime prevention measures. In addition, we make a historic effort to enable children in financial vulnerability to participate in the association life. It can create hope, community and counter mental and physical ill health. Mr President, I would like to There are basic social functions that do not work properly. I have repeatedly pointed out in this House how the trust and warmth of a society can then find it more difficult to spread. It can also affect growth and business opportunities negatively when it becomes more me and mine than we and ours. Politicians have a responsibility not to black out and not to fuel fear of then capitalizing on it. But the absence of focus should not be confused with belief in the future. The vigour of government policy is not good enough. Now we have to use our resources and our reform efforts to get in touch with social problems we see. With wise, focused and powerful reforms for security, welfare and work, we can build a better society together where politics does its part. We do this for old and new Swedes in communities such as families, associations, parishes and companies for a society where we leave no one behind but neither hold anyone back.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-203	Mr President, I would like to I was going to do something quite unusual in a budget debate such as focusing on an issue that the Green Party and the Christian Democrats have in common. Unfortunately, these issues are fewer now than before, especially after the last days of the country. We no longer agree on the protection of families in Sweden. But we agree on international solidarity and the protection of families and vulnerable people in the world. I see that we agree that the 1% target in terms of aid is important to safeguard. My question is about what is going forward. I would like to ask Mr Forssmed to comment on how he sees the possibilities to stand up for and safeguard the 1% target for aid in the future when the Swedish economy might be a little tighter.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-206	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. Karolina Skog is right about that. We don't agree on much, but we agree on some. We agree, among other things, that Sweden should have high and generous aid and that it should correspond to 1 per cent of bni, also according to the new calculation method. I think it's important. We are now seeing a trend in the world towards falling levels of aid in recent years. It is becoming increasingly difficult to fund important projects that can lift people out of poverty and also basic things such as vaccines, health care and such things. I fundamentally believe that aid contributes to a more secure and secure world for us too. Although we do not do so primarily for our own sake, it also has that kind of effect. If you do not really want to see a world that is fragile and flawed and take that responsibility, I think this is a small thing we can do. We're gonna do it, I think. We shall ensure that we also strengthen the follow-up and effectiveness of aid all the time, just as we shall do in all other areas. For me, it is an important issue, and it is an important issue for the Christian Democrats. In the budget passed by the Moderates and Christian Democrats in this House, aid was 1% of GDP. I note that Karolina Skog's party last spring withdrew the aid through a calculation that was very non-transparent. I hope we get less of it in the future.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-211	Mr President, I would like to It is good that we can see that, in addition to agreeing on the 1% target, we also agree that the settlements should be kept down. Swedish aid is effective. It reaches those in the world who are in greatest need of support. It reaches out to those countries that need support in their work against corruption and in developing democracy. Swedish aid also maintains very much of the international climate work that is a prerequisite for the Paris Agreement to be held together. I also know, not least now that the economy is being dampened, that it is difficult to be the small party that defends the aid when a common budget is to be drawn up. I very much hope that this priority will be safeguarded even in the situation I do not want to see with a common budget from the new little Conservative bloc.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-213	Mr President, I would like to I hope that we will also be able to have high and generous aid from Sweden in the future. It is very important when the willingness to provide aid is reduced in the world. We still have very great needs. We have opportunities to finance and lift people out of poverty. It's a chance you should take. We can look historically at what it looked like all along with the alliance government. That's when we made 1 percent of the bni every year. My hope is that we will also make it forward, regardless of which government is in charge.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-215	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for reminding me to ask for my reservations 3 and 7. Then I would like to say to Jakob Forssmed: I wish you a speedy recovery. Your performance here is very good, not least considering the condition. But now I'm gonna stop sucking up! I'm sitting here with an article that I find very interesting. It's written by three senior doctors, one of whom is a professor. The title is: Free mammography causes more to come to the examination. The article notes that 30 more cancer tubers have been discovered than would otherwise have been if the mammography had not been so accessible by being free of charge. There is quite broad support for the free movement of goods, but also for other measures. Increasing availability and access to mammography makes it easier to detect cancer lumps in good time, which obviously affects the possibility of getting well again. The Breast Cancer Association is very critical of the Christian Democrats, who in their budget motion removes the very targeted state contribution to free mammography. My question to Jakob Forssmed is: Is it not now time for you to change your mind and note that on this particular issue you were wrong? You can't deny women the right to discover a cancer bundle in time, can you? Many women have to refrain from examination because they can't afford it. Don't you think it's better for everyone to leave?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-220	Mr President, I would like to There's a lot to say about this. One can start with a general discussion about self-taxes. You removed a lot of social security contributions during the last parliamentary term. We believe that this is fundamentally problematic. What happened during the last parliamentary term was, on the whole, that it was free of charge to sit and wait in ever longer queues – also for cancer treatment. That's not very good. Above all, it is not good to extend the public commitment and, at the same time, to reduce the conditions for jobs and growth. That is the background to our criticism of doing things free of charge. Then I think Ulla Andersson has a point in that screening is something other than general fees in health care. There is reason to consider how this should be handled. We removed the earmarked state grant. At the same time, we will add EUR 7 billion to municipalities and regions next year with our policy, so there are opportunities for those who want to retain this. We also know that it is likely that other measures, other than tax-free, might have an even greater effect. This could involve outreach and more dissemination of information. It is not only the fees that affect whether you are looking for mammography or not. This money could also be used for other efforts to bring even more to the screening programmes. I would also like to point out that, with the Christian Democratic budget, we are focusing above all on those with the lowest incomes, decile 1 and 2, as it is called. Those with the lowest incomes receive three times more in our budget than they get with the government and January parties. For example, we increase the guarantee for those with sickness and activity benefits, which are some of those with the lowest incomes in Sweden. They get 2,000 kroner a year more with our politics.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-225	Mr President, I would like to I have seen the Christian Democrats' distribution policy, and I appreciate seeing the group on sickness benefit. I appreciate the fact that they are no longer denied the tax cut that we achieved in the last parliamentary term and that they are moving forward with their own, new tax cuts. But I can also see that your distribution policy in tax policy gives the tenth with the highest income almost ten times more than the tenth with the lowest income, so it is quite distorted anyway. I understand that Jakob Forssmed has difficulty defending the removal of the targeted state contribution to free mammography, because it has an effect. Of course, other actions are also important, such as calling and information documents in different languages and outreach activities. But the fee is important. I have been a single mother, and I can say that with the economy I had then I would have turned down leaving if I had been called. This should not be the case; the conditions should not be such that you miss a cancer bundle because your wallet is empty. I think the Christian Democrats will come to the same conclusion.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-229	Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats are always open to discussing improvements in our health policy. I note that we provide large resources to municipalities, county councils and regions to cope with healthcare. We see that there are different methods of reaching out so that we get as many as possible to participate in screening. There was a high presence in the screening programmes even before the introduction of the fee-free regime. But let us return to the question, and let us evaluate what is best. Is it more information, are there more calls in different languages, as Ulla Andersson requests, or is it other methods that best reach out so that you discover cancer? But it is not just about discovering cancer, but also about getting care where people are treated and where the deadlines we have set for people to receive treatment on time are met. We are a long way from this today.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-231	Mr President, I would like to Once again, there is a proper government budget on the table! A year ago we stood here and debated the budget under completely different conditions. We had a transitional government with a transitional budget, and the right-wing conservative parties then took the opportunity to push their napkin sketch through the Chamber. Dismantling and tax cuts were given priority over welfare. Climate policy was slaughtered. The shortcomings were perhaps the most obvious in retrospect when it comes to labour market policy. The contrast between then and now is clear. Today we are debating the first budget presented by the four parties of the January Agreement. While others are prioritising a political game, through broad parliamentary cooperation, we are addressing the social problems that we see: the growing needs of welfare, crime, the gap between city and country, integration and climate change. This means that we Social Democrats can continue the work that we started in the last parliamentary term. It was a policy that, in many respects, gave us positive results. Since 2014, more than 300 000 more people are going to work in Sweden, of which about 100 000 are going to the important workplaces in our common welfare. Employment and labour force participation remain the highest in the EU and at levels that we have not seen in Sweden since before the 1990s crisis. In addition, the share of the population in compensation or insurance schemes has been the lowest since the early 1980s. We have kept order in public finances, where deficits from previous governments have turned into balances and surpluses. By paying off our national debt, we have created a strong protection for jobs and welfare in our country. It is a reserve for poorer times and for a more difficult demographic situation, with above all a higher proportion of older people in the population. It's a backup that's needed. Mr President, I would like to Concerns about world trade, weaker international economic activity and Brexit affect the Swedish economy and the conditions for us. It has simply become a bit more November grey. It is about the slowdown, which we see to be met with efforts to maintain a high level of employment and good welfare. There are still 100,000 job vacancies available in Sweden. In order to meet employers' needs for skilled labour, education and labour market policies need to be developed. In the budget, we continue to expand the knowledge boost, and we strengthen the opportunities to study through study start-up support. As you know, the Swedish language is a key to establishment both in society and in the labour market. Therefore, the focus on Swedish teaching is extended from the first day. Funds are also provided for language training for parents on leave. Conversion and education should be available throughout life. Yet, education may be the first in life to be the most important. All children are entitled to as good and stimulating schooling as possible. Next year, we will increase state support for improved equivalence and knowledge development. The budget is also based on the state grant to employ more teaching assistants. Mr President, I would like to As we know, more and more people are getting older in Sweden – or old, because we all get older every day. In ten years' time, the number of people in Sweden aged 80 or over is estimated to have increased by over 50 percent. It is gratifying that we are getting older, given the alternative! This is the result of a long-term welfare policy. For us, pensioners are an extremely important group to protect in society. It is people who have built this fine society and given us younger generations an opportunity that has been granted to other people in the world. That is why we are once again taking steps to close the gap in taxation between pensioners and wage earners, as the right-wing conservative parties increase as soon as they get the chance. That is why we are strengthening the economy of the most deprived pensioners through improved basic protection and increased housing allowances. At the same time, a higher proportion of older people in the population places new demands on welfare, not least on elderly care and health care. Extensive expansion will be required, and substantial additional resources will be needed. Last parliamentary term, we invested EUR 35 billion more in welfare activities. Tens of thousands of new employees were employed in school, health care and care for the elderly. We are now continuing with new billions in increased general government grants but also in targeted initiatives for dementia care, support for new retirement homes and efforts towards loneliness among the elderly. But more is needed – not just next year but the following year, not just this term of office but the subsequent one and the subsequent one. We Social Democrats will always give priority to welfare. Mr President, I would like to The whole country will grow. The gaps between municipalities and landowners must be reduced. A few weeks ago we decided on a new cost compensation system. That's good. In the budget, the state also takes responsibility for improving the conditions for the many smaller municipalities that have taken a great responsibility for new arrivals but also for municipalities that have particularly difficult socio-economic challenges. We want and want to exploit the potential of the whole country. More service offices will open. Support to maintain proximity to shops in sparsely populated areas is strengthened. Investment support is developed so that rental apartments can be built throughout the country. The digital infrastructure will be expanded. Sweden will be connected with improved maintenance of railway where new rails will be laid and worn-out switches and old overhead contact lines replaced. Mr President, I would like to Security and democracy must be protected. The fight against crime and its causes are becoming increasingly intense in the government budget. Society should be strong enough to protect us from crime and terrorism. The applications that are now being made to the police are the largest in modern times. The expansion of the Agency is very extensive. Barely 30,000 police officers will be close to 40,000 in a few years. Just last Monday, more than 540 police aspirants stepped into work. This is what it looks like now. Every six months, a new litter comes out. The reinforcements continue as they leave both old police colleges and the new ones we have set up. But it is not just the police who receive increased funding. The whole chain of justice is being strengthened. In order to meet the serious and organised crime, it is proposed that reinforcements be made by the Police Authority, the Security Service and the Prosecutor's Office. The penal services will receive more money to cope with the increased penalties that we have already implemented and which are about to be implemented. In addition, the courts receive more money to deal with the increase in the number of cases. The National Board of Forensic Medicine is being strengthened, and Customs is receiving an increased grant for increased presence at the border. However, we know that preventive action is also needed. Segregation and divisions are a breeding ground for social problems and crime that must be combated. High employment, good schools throughout the country and general well-being lay the foundations for a safer and stronger society. I would also like to say a few words about what has been said earlier here, even though we have had some lines. I think that the tone that the Swedish Democrats had was absolutely extraordinary, even though they continue their dismantling agenda that they pushed through in Parliament a year ago and now do not want to take any responsibility whatsoever for. They say that they want to invest in the municipalities, but they pass on very large costs for labour market policy and establishment to the municipalities and therefore welfare. In addition, they have an anti-union policy. So far this year, 35 people have died at work. In this situation, strong trade unions are required, but the Swedish Democrats want to remove their right to appoint safety representatives. They want to nationalise the unemployment funds and slaughter the Employment Service also in this budget, not just in that of this year. As the crown of the work, they reduce the grant to teachers' salaries by SEK 2 670 million. Less well-being, less opportunities to support the unemployed, more dangerous workplaces, lower wage increases for ordinary people when unions weaken, less education when teachers' salaries fall – we see very different ways forward to improve for ordinary people in our country. Mr President, I would like to With our broad cooperation in the Riksdag as a basis, we take responsibility for Sweden and tackle social problems. With those words, I would like to support the proposal in the committee's report.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-258	Mr President, I would like to I would like to respond to something that was said at the end of Mr Olovsson's speech. The Regional Safety Officers should absolutely not be removed, definitely not. We have never proposed this and will never propose it. Here are the Social Democrats. They have tried a little different strategies for how to relate to the parliamentary landscape that has emerged and continues to grow. The lie is then number one. When it doesn't work, we'll see what they do. Desperation is obvious. Then you can think about who will appoint the Regional Safety Officers. Should the regional safety representatives be appointed indirectly by the Social Democratic Party and run around the workplace and campaign for elections? Or should they do their job and be appointed and financed by the Swedish Work Environment Authority? There's a difference. We do not think that taxpayers should pay salaries to the Social Democratic campaign workers. The safety representatives must do their job and be financed by the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Then perhaps even a Swedish democrat could be – or a Christian Democrat, what do I know – or someone who is not a politician at all. Definitely shouldn't the Social Democrats run around there. No, we're not going to lower teachers' salaries. On the other hand, we have a different model in terms of strengthening teacher salaries than the government has with its system of first teachers, which is quite strongly criticised both by principals and by the industry. But it is clear that if we provide a great deal of resources to the teachers' employers, that is to say, normally the municipalities, it will ensure not only for higher teachers' salaries but also for higher salaries for nurses and so on.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-264	Mr President, I would like to In previous shifts from several parties, we have shown that the Swedish Democrats do not at all provide increased resources to the municipalities. On the contrary, other costs are passed on so much that there is no money left for welfare. When you remove money from teachers' salaries in this way, there is no money in the municipalities to pay them. Or you have to make savings and have fewer teachers and fewer nurses to pay the wages to those who remain. That is what will be the effect of the policy of the Swedish Democrats. In addition, we have the great reweighting from the municipalities that have the toughest conditions, not least in our sparsely populated areas in Sweden, to the municipalities around our big cities that have the absolute best conditions. So it also beats very unfairly regionally. When it comes to the anti-union attitude of the Swedish democrats, we now understand what it is based on. It is because Oscar Sjöstedt believes that everyone who has a trade union mission is a social democrat and uses his trade union mission to pursue political issues. This is a very strange attitude, not least because TCO and Saco associations have absolutely no connection with the Social Democrats. With LO we have a close cooperation that has been very good for working people in this country. We think it is very important to have strong unions, whether they are police officers, officers, industrial officials, metal workers or municipal employees. We think it is extremely important that we have strong unions. It is an important part of the Swedish model. When it comes to safety ombudsmen, the Swedish Democrats are targeting them. When it comes to the fact that it should be expensive to be in the union, the Swedish Democrats also focus on this point. This is how you can go on. On point after point, you are pursuing a policy that is bad for the Swedish model. And when it is bad for the Swedish model, when the unions become weaker, people also become more vulnerable and the wages for ordinary people are lower.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-269	Mr President, I would like to Please! Surely it cannot be denied that people who may belong to the same party that I belong to are excluded from the trade unions because they have the wrong party book, the wrong party colour. That is the case for hundreds, perhaps even thousands. The union comes and says: You vote for the wrong party, you can't have any missions here. Even though you have the trust of your employees to be a safety representative or whatever it is, the union pampers up there, the sossies, and say: You have the wrong party color! Get out of here! And then you get kicked out of the union. Then the unions complain that the degree of organization is decreasing. It is no wonder that it decreases when they throw out members who vote for the wrong party? Come on!
i-78f02675b5b2464b-270	Mr President, I would like to It can also be about Oscar Sjöstedt making it more expensive to be in the union. It can also be about Oscar Sjöstedt trying to reduce the possibility of strong trade union organisations in Sweden in all his political proposals. He describes trade union organisations as some kind of political party when we have three major central organisations and there is one who has political cooperation – we have a trade union-political collaboration because we want there to be LO workers in politics, for example. We think that is very important. Oscar Sjöstedt clearly shows that he does not want free trade union organisations and that he does not want strong organisations that can negotiate good terms for their members. It is about transport workers, municipal workers, police officers and others. Oscar Sjöstedt ignores them because he does not understand that this is an essential and important part of the Swedish model that has built Sweden strong.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-272	Mr President, I would like to If you say we're on top of a boom and do it often enough, sooner or later you get it right. In a number of recent years' budget debates, I have just stated that we are at the peak of a boom. Now in retrospect, I would like to say that I was right on one of those occasions, because now it is clear that we are seeing a slowdown. The peak of the boom is behind us. The situation is still relatively good in Swedish public finances, but given this slowdown, I think it is important that we in this House remind ourselves of some simple truths. The first of these truths is that the foundation of Swedish welfare is job creation. The basis for job creation is entrepreneurship policy and, not least, small business policy where the new jobs in Swedish business are emerging. This is always important for a country, but not least it is important in a situation where the economy is slowing down. We will get less free of charge in the coming years, and then we need to keep track of fundamentals and create an economy where jobs grow in small and large companies. We need to pursue an offensive employment and entrepreneurial policy in the coming years. The second truth I would like to remind us is the importance of order in public finances when we go into a tougher position. At present, we also have relatively good conditions here. A few years ago, we laid down a new fiscal framework. It came into effect at the turn of the year, and we can see that already in year one for the new fiscal framework we are reaching the sovereign debt anchor that we jointly put in place. So there is a legitimate discussion about how we should relate to the framework when we have actually achieved one of two objectives for Swedish economic policy. However, the discussion that we are seeing in Sweden today where we are concerned that the public debt is too low or that it has gone too well can very soon be changed to something else. There is therefore every reason to continue to maintain consensus and caution as to how we manage the fiscal framework. Mr President, I would like to We are discussing a number of budgets today, both the budget proposal and the budgetary motions, but as far as the budget proposal is concerned, which is supported by the Center Party – I would like to take this opportunity to call for the committee's proposals in the report as a whole – I would argue that they bear a number of themes. The two perhaps horizontal themes on which the budget proposal is based are what this term of office must be about for Swedish policy in general. We must defend Sweden, and we must renew Sweden. When it comes to the defence of Sweden and that we strengthen the functions that we expect Sweden to be able to deliver, I would like to highlight defence, justice and welfare. The budget now under discussion, on which we will decide, takes a number of important steps to cope significantly better with the core tasks of the state. At present in the Swedish political debate, we have, above all, a political discussion about what defence efforts do not apply and what they do not suffice and so on. It obscures the fact that, with the budget that will take effect at the end of the year, we are taking a historic step in the financing of the defence and that we are increasing the Swedish defence appropriations. That's very good. Now we have a long-term defence perspective, and it can be said that the main discussion in the political debate is about what happens in the years after 2025. Until 2025 we have a long-term staircase where we aggressively increase the Swedish defence funds. That is good, because it is only to be noted that previous generations of political leaders were a little too offensive to reduce Swedish defence efforts. There are also serious steps to be taken in defending the Swedish rule of law. We are investing heavily in the whole legal chain from police and prosecutors to court offices, customs and other parts of the judiciary. The efforts made here together with the reinforcements made a year ago when the M-KD budget went through mean that we can talk about a new playing field in terms of the ability of law enforcement authorities to work to strengthen the Swedish rule of law and to counteract Swedish crime. It is very possible that additional funding will be needed, but we have said in common in recent years from this House and all eight parties that we now need to step up our efforts to counter crime and strengthen the justice chain and the rule of law throughout the country. That's very good. We also take steps to defend Swedish welfare. The most important initiatives are the increase in general government subsidies to regions and municipalities. The municipalities and regions are in many ways the front line for the Swedish welfare policy in the coming years. More money is needed here. There is a need for increased government efforts here, and I am the first to admit that we will have to fill in further on the basis of the information given today and in this budget. But we are increasing this budget by 5 billion annually, and it is a major strengthening in a situation where Swedish municipalities and regions need just the long-term information and reinforcements. Once again, further efforts will be needed, and this will be an area that we must follow up and where we will have to fill in, I believe, all the budgetary processes in the coming parliamentary term. I would also like to highlight a small but important initiative, namely the reinforcement of child and youth psychiatry. If there is an area where we must not only defend but also really develop and make available the Swedish welfare offer, it is when it comes to counteracting mental illness, not least for children and young people. The reinforcements made at the BUP and other parts of the Swedish child and youth psychiatry are extremely important and clearly show that we see this societal challenge and will put in the funds needed to counteract the very worrying development that we see in the country's young people. But we can not only defend Sweden, we must also renew Sweden. We take a number of steps in this budget which means a renewed Swedish playing field in a number of areas. In fiscal policy, taxes are reduced by a total net of EUR 13 billion. Important tax cuts are being made in the case of employers' contributions for employees, in the case of marginal tax as a result of the abolition of the military tax and in the case of pensioners' everyday lives with reduced tax on pensioners. There are some further sensible tax cuts here, but overall the three I mentioned are the top ones. Of course, these tax cuts will produce results. They will mean that more Swedes will have more money left at the end of the month and that we will reduce the cost pressure on the business community with an ambitious reduction in taxes through a reduction in employers' contributions. It is good for Sweden to wisely reduce taxes as happens in this budget. We must also renew climate policy. Clearly, we are not achieving the goals we have set ourselves. This budget proposal takes a number of important steps. We see the largest and most ambitious climate budget we have ever had in Sweden. We see important investments in infrastructure, electrification and moving to a more bio-based economy. We see many other important initiatives in both Industriklivet and Klimatklivet, both of which are strengthened. But here too, it is clear that further efforts are needed. We can do almost all of the Swedish forests that we are doing too much of foreign oil today. It would be good environmental policy, it would be good job policy and it would be good for Swedish entrepreneurship. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say a few words about the need to renew rural policy. All too often, rural policy in Sweden has been about short-term projects and plotting with various smaller initiatives. In this budget, we are investing, above all, in the very fundamentals of rural policy, in rural development, which can be squeezed and felt. It is about railways, it is about smaller and individual roads and it is about broadband. It is about the type of investment that creates opportunities for much else, which creates opportunities for life and entrepreneurship around the country. That's exactly how we're going to work. There are also a number of areas that are important for Sweden that are not included in this budget. I would like to mention the need to create a digitised Sweden and that we prioritise it within the public commitment. In future budgetary processes, we must therefore make an ambitious effort to modernise Sweden and ensure that we really protect what is important: the core of welfare. It will be a number of tough years, and it will require a lot of us political decision-makers when it comes to prioritising. We must prioritise jobs, welfare, defence and the renewal of Sweden. However, the budget proposal on which we are going to take a decision, supported by the Center Party and to which we are calling for approval, is an important step along the way. It's good for Sweden.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-294	Madam President, I would like It is always nice to listen to Emil Källström in the speaker's chair. There is a solid commitment. There is a prospect and a willingness to see opportunities that I truly appreciate. On many issues we have a consensus with the Center Party, but there are also issues where we differ. One thing is illustrated by Emil Källström himself in the speech and also in an interview in Dagens Nyheter just a few weeks after the budget was presented. As far as local authorities' needs are concerned, Emil Källström stated: In his speech, Emil Källström was also talking about more resources for the municipalities and that we will need to replenish based on the information given in this budget. But it was the Center Party that was in the news. That's what worries me a little. The government and the other January parties considered themselves to have SEK 25 billion in reform space. But now a spit styre of it comes out to the municipalities. The forthcoming additions are a consequence of the moderate and Christian-democratic budget. And there would have been more to it. A significant proportion of the 25 billion would have to come out in the local government sector. Instead, the Center Party prioritises entry deductions, an employer's contribution reduction. I have nothing against tax cuts for job creation. But then you should choose those that are most effective. Lars Calmfors said in Today's industry this week that it is hard to believe that the entry deduction can make a big difference. Why not give more money to the municipalities now, instead of introducing, for example, entry deductions?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-299	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Jakob Forssmed, for the beautiful words you started with! I would like to do the same, but I am concerned that there will then be no time to respond to the political content. Madam President, I would like We live in a world of chronological times. Things happen in a certain order, and when something has happened, it's hard to jump back and redo. If we had been negotiating the state budget here, and now I am not ruling out the fact that we had come to the conclusion that we would be further strengthening the local government sector. I have also communicated this both here in the speaker's chair, both in this and in the previous budget debate, as well as in the media, as Jakob Forssmed has noted. That is also why we have the opportunity to present new budgets. At least twice a year you present a budget proposal, once in the spring and once in the autumn. I would already like to flag, for everyone who is interested, because we see a need to further strengthen the municipalities. That is something that we will carry with us in future budgetary processes. I think that is an important message. And that is something we will of course have the ambition to deliver on. I would not like to oppose important tax cuts. On the contrary, we must retain the opportunity to think both short and long at the same time. It is important to lower the Swedish tax burden. And if we do so wisely, which creates jobs and opportunities for companies to grow, it means that in the future we will have additional resources to spend on welfare. That is how the Alliance's policy worked for eight years. We reduced taxes and received additional resources for welfare, both because of and because of these tax cuts. We will continue to cope with that combination and will not fall into left-wing rhetoric and set tax cuts against welfare.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-304	Madam President, I would like I have nothing against tax cuts on jobs. But then I think it is important to do so in the most effective way. I am not sure how much opportunity it will be for the next few years. I hope they'll be big, but I'm not sure. There is a kind of January-healthy complexion that passes into the pallor of thoughtfulness. When you entered the budget negotiations, priority was given to your own projects, but then – unfortunately after the budget proposal had been presented – it has been concluded that it is really the local government sector that needs money. Emil Källström is right about chronology. However, it was not just the three weeks between the presentation of the budget proposal and our shadow options that made this possible. The insight should have come earlier. Having said that, I welcome the promises that there will be more money for the municipalities. Better late than never!
i-78f02675b5b2464b-307	Madam President, I would like The line of argument from the opposition, that it is too little and too late, has been heard in this House even before. I am convinced that it will come back later too. However, when you are in a firm position to negotiate the budget, priority must be given. What is not included in the budget that is currently being decided is another chance. The development since the proposal was developed speaks clearly. Additional supplements will be needed. That's why we're flagging it and we're going to try to deliver it. Jakob Forssmed has no reply left, but it would be interesting to hear what company tax reduction Jakob Forssmed wants. All the corporate tax cuts we make are obviously wrong, but I hear very rarely any other bourgeois party talking about what business tax cuts you actually want to carry out. But it is probably a subject for a forthcoming debate.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-310	Madam President, I would like The fact that tax cuts are wrong may be based on the fact that research has shown that they have not had the impact that they were supposed to have. It has thus been an inefficient way of creating jobs. If we look at what you January parties do, Emil Källström, we see that you invest most in reducing taxes and significantly less in welfare. You're not really shooting at a crown in general government contributions to welfare. It is just as Jakob Forssmed said earlier; that money was in the M-KD budget. If the amount corresponding to the military tax had been added to the municipal equalisation system, i.e. 6 billion, it would definitely have benefited welfare rather than the economic elite. We have allowed the investigation service to look at what it would have given municipalities with less than average fiscal power if the 6 billion were to be allocated to those municipalities. In Emil Källström's county, six out of seven municipalities had received additional funding. They had had to split 133 million. That would've been good. In Örnsköldsvik you will save 30 million at the school next year. In this way Örnsköldsvik had received 51 million. Ånge had not been able to pull down on the night crew for older people, had not been able to close dining rooms for older people and had not been able to reduce the number of short-term places for older people. In Timrå, both night ice and culture school are on the saving list. In Kramfors they plan to cancel the service in evenings and nights. Students' assistants disappear. You don't even have ice for the kids to skate on. All municipalities in Västernorrland face huge savings that you could have prevented, but you chose tax cuts instead. Why does the Center Party always choose tax cuts over welfare?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-315	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to correct something I said in the last budget debate. Ulla Andersson then accused the Center Party of ruling in Örnsköldsvik. It's still wrong. She also accused the local council there of wanting to close down schools. It was wrong then, but it's right now. The Social Democrats in Örnsköldsvik have come forward with such proposals, but I think they will be stopped by a coalition in which both the Left Party and the Center Party are involved. The savings at the school described by Ulla Andersson are therefore not included in the Alliance's budget in Örnsköldsvik. Now I leave the regret-manish perspective. Ulla Andersson and Jakob Forssmed are in some form of coalition, where they both say that the 5 billion that we are now increasing the general state contributions are not really our merit, but it was someone else who said it earlier. Money comes sharp when we decide on it in the Swedish Parliament. The 5 billion is coming now. And they come because they are included in a budget bill that four parties have presented jointly. I agree with Ulla Andersson that we are likely to have to fill in further during the term of office. We follow the development of the local government sector and take a number of steps. The new municipal tax equalisation system and the fact that it is already in force at the end of the year are also part of it. It's about meeting the municipalities that are the toughest. A large part of the municipalities that Ulla Andersson is talking about, not least in northern Sweden, get reinforcements thanks to the new system. That is a good thing, but I am convinced that further efforts will also be needed. That is also why we will pursue this. Money can only make a difference when it comes to real life and when it lands on municipal accounts. It is not expressions of opinion, press release money or opposition budgets that make a difference. It is budget proposals that go through and become reality that makes a difference, Ulla Andersson.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-321	Madam President, I would like Due to the fact that the money has not landed on municipal accounts, major savings are now being made in Västernorrland. In Gävleborg, where I live, ten out of ten municipalities will save on elderly care, preschool and school. It is happening now, Emil Källström, and you knew about this when you negotiated the budget. All the signals and forecasts were in terms of how the local government finances looked. We can look at your budget. Emil Källström himself mentioned the figures of EUR 5 billion in general government subsidies, EUR 6 billion in defence taxes and EUR 13 billion in tax cuts. What's the biggest amount? What was the most important priority – was it welfare or tax cuts? Tax cuts, I would say, because 13 is larger than 5. In next year's budget, you have already ring-fenced almost 4 billion more to tax cuts, but I have not seen you ring in additional money for welfare.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-324	Madam President, I would like To some extent, what I am doing in both this debate and previous debates is identifying the need to strengthen welfare. We see that need. We have no ambition but to deliver on that need. We have had this debate a thousand times and we will have it a thousand more times. After all, the left-wing party's answer is always to raise taxes and distribute them to various welfare sectors. Then you raise the tax even more and hand out money, and then you do the same thing again. What happens in the end? Well, those who are to pay – i.e. those who are responsible for job creation in the private business sector – are slowing down, and the economy is folding. Then there are no resources to allocate. That's how the connections look. That's why we both strengthen welfare and lower taxes on jobs and businesses, because we want more entrepreneurship. We want a well-being to trust even in ten years. The Left Party never cared about that.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-326	Madam President, I would like I would like to support the committee's proposal. Many people I meet feel a huge frustration that no one is dealing with Sweden's problems. I can feel it, too. It can be about the growing crime, dependency and idleness in our vulnerable suburbs, weak school outcomes or that welfare does not deliver even though we pay among the highest taxes available. It is about the fact that we have a shortage of electricity in a modern welfare country. It is a question of solving the climate issue here and now. The last few years have been marked by a great deal of reform fatigue. Politics has simply not had the ability to deal with the problems that Sweden has. Looking back over the last five or six years, very few major economic reforms have been put on the table of this House. Leaving aside the pension agreement, it is almost clinically free from major, important reforms for Sweden. It is quite a number of years since the Alliance introduced the job tax deductions, which made it more profitable to work. It's been quite a long time since the Alliance started the school of knowledge. We have had many years when very little happened. For the Liberals, we now see as our role in Swedish politics to get things done. We do so within the framework of the January agreement and this budget, which we have been involved in negotiating and taking responsibility for. And we are prepared to form a majority in the Riksdag for other issues in order to step by step drive Sweden in the liberal and bourgeois direction and address Sweden's problems. Madam President, I would like It was entrepreneurs who built Sweden. It is entrepreneurs who build the welfare of our country. When we stand here and discuss how the money should be distributed, it is entrepreneurs who create jobs and the basis for our welfare – an entrepreneur who has gone up this morning to their employees and made sure to produce something that others in the world or here in Sweden buy. Then politics must also deliver proposals and reforms that make it more profitable to be an entrepreneur and that strengthen the business environment and Swedish competitiveness. That is why the Liberals in this budget have made it clear that we are abolishing the military tax, we are doubling the FOU deduction to research-intensive companies, the removal tax is reduced and we are investing money in defence. It is reforms that strengthen security and ensure that the business environment in Sweden is better. Madam President, I would like There are three areas that we highlight in this budget, and in the future we will need to highlight them considerably more. It is the school, integration and climate – three important issues for Sweden that will be important priorities for the Liberals in the forthcoming negotiations, and also in this budget we are taking a few steps in the right direction for them. The first area is the school. Too many people leave comprehensive school without being eligible for high school, and we see growing differences and gaps between those who receive support from their parents and those who leave school in the afternoon to support their parents at home. This is particularly evident in our vulnerable suburbs, where we see the emergence of dependency and idleness and the emergence of a new subclass. It is the breeding ground for the crime we see, not least in Malmö, Skåne, where I live, which rips apart our society, creates insecurity and makes society not stick together. It is a society where it becomes more important where you come from than where you are going. But your future should not be determined by your background. That is why, as in this budget, the Liberals will be giving priority to school in the future. We always will. In the budget that we are now debating, we are adding money to the municipalities, and we are doubling the state subsidy that goes to teachers' assistants. Basically, it is about teachers being able to be teachers and spend all their time in the classroom to teach students enough. It is an important reform to strengthen the knowledge vision in Swedish schools. Madam President, I would like The second area is security and justice and largely – if not only – has its roots in segregation and the situation of lack of integration in Sweden. In this budget, we are taking a first step to ensure that the judiciary receives more money. It is about the Customs Agency, the Prison Service and all the law enforcement authorities, which in this way gain greater powers and opportunities to combat crime. Is that enough? Probably not. We will have to do more these years, but we are taking the first steps to now expand and rebuild the Swedish judiciary. It is very important for people to feel secure and for us to be able to ensure that the criminal gangs are thrown back. In this context, this is about growing segregation and lack of integration, where dependency on subsidies is deepened. For many people, it is about living on benefits year after year. Children grow up in families where you don't see the connection between Mom and Dad working and there's food on the table at night. Your background and the idleness of your parents put an end to the hope of a better future. This is where the criminal gangs feed. When we have had a boom in Sweden it has not been a boom in Bishopsgården, Rinkeby or Rosengård. Liberals aim that we should not have any vulnerable suburbs in 2030. It is an incredibly ambitious goal, but the alternative is unsustainable: that we continue to grow and grow in vulnerable suburbs and that segregation is tearing our society apart. We must break that trend. We will be introducing language requirements for citizenship in the coming years. We will introduce compulsory language preschools, which will enable children to learn Swedish and which will allow mothers to look for work. These are reforms that will make integration work better, but of course we will have to do more. Madam President, I would like The third area concerns the climate. It's here and now. No one can be unmoved by the reports where the UN and others now state that climate change is happening very, very quickly. I will be honest and say that my party has not taken this issue seriously for far too many years. Let's do that now. We're self-critical. We have not seen the problems enough and have not put in place sufficient measures. But we do now, and we will do so in the future. The most important thing to see is that the climate change we are looking at is not about putting climate against growth or climate activism against entrepreneurship. Companies are the basis for solving the climate issue. The solution to climate problems is not to have zero growth. The solution is that companies can make money by developing new technologies and developing climate-smart products and services. That's how we solve the climate issue. What we are now seeing is that the transition we are looking at will require a great deal more electricity. The cars should go from being diesel cars to becoming electric cars. The switchover industry will use less coal and more electricity in its production, which will require an incredible amount of energy and electricity. The energy agreement concluded a few years ago is already obsolete, as the need for 2040 to 2045 is almost 60% more than it is today. This corresponds to the nuclear power we have in Sweden today, which will be shut down if nothing happens. Liberals want a new energy agreement to be initiated – energy agreement 2.0. There, from politics, we should not say from the outset that certain types of energy are wrong. Nuclear power cannot be excluded from the outset. We need everything. We need nuclear power, hydroelectric power, wind power and solar power. We need everything to cope with the transition that is now required to take climate problems seriously. It is to take responsibility for Sweden. Madam President, I would like This budget is a step towards breaking the wearyness of reform that for many years has become a hibernation over Swedish politics. It takes responsibility for Sweden. It drives Sweden in the right direction. It does not solve all the problems here and now – we will have to do more in the future – but it is a step in the direction of making Sweden more liberal and making Sweden more bourgeois. A first step is to address many of the problems that Sweden has to deal with today.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-348	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mats Persson, for your speech. The approach to companies was very good. It is about increased growth and reforms to achieve this. In particular, the supply of electricity is important for the Swedish base industry, but it also plays a major role if we are to meet the climate challenge. On these points, I very much appreciate Mats Persson's speech. There's one thing that worries me a little, or quite a lot. It's about the justice system. Mats Persson himself referred to this in his speech. However, when you look at the budget proposal, you can see that in the coming years, including next year, it is under-financing the activities of the law enforcement authorities with 3.4 billion. Next year, the courts will receive only half of what they have requested, despite a very strong influx of cases. This makes it difficult to meet the major challenges of security in society. What also concerns me is how the Liberals have argued that the courts should not get the full amount. Mats Persson's party leader said when the budget was presented that if the courts were to get the full amount, the whole chain would not work. I'm having a hard time getting that together. Why would the justice chain not work if the courts could take care of the large influx of cases that they now have? In addition, it is not just a case-by-case approach in criminal matters. The increasing length of processing times also affects children in custody disputes. These are also projects which cannot be brought forward because they cannot be tried in the Land and Environment Court. I think this is a major concern. There was 25 billion in scope for reform, but it was not possible to give the courts what they wanted. The judiciary is underfunded. Mats Persson is happy to develop a little how he sees it.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-352	Madam President, I would like It is clear that with the situation we have in Sweden today – with the criminal gangs, with insecurity and with growing crime – we have to deal with the problems here and now. In this budget, we are taking the first steps to do so. In recent years, politics in Sweden – this applies not least to the budget presented by Jakob Forssmed himself, which received approval from the Swedish Parliament – has contributed money to the police. However, enough money has not been paid to the other law enforcement authorities. If the police do their job and are better in law enforcement, the pressure on other law enforcement authorities increases. What we do in this budget is that we spend more money on all the law enforcement agencies: the Customs Agency, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the courts and the Criminal Service. It's a chain that has to work. Have all the authorities received the exact amount they requested? No, they haven't. Jakob Forssmed knows almost better than I do that a budget process works like this: not all authorities always get the exact amount they have wanted. But the contributions to the judiciary are in the billions in the coming years. Is that enough? We do not rule out the fact that in the forthcoming budgets we will have to spend even more money on the judiciary if it turns out that there are such needs. Now this budget is to be clubbed. Let us then evaluate and see how the authorities deal with it and whether the assessment is sufficient. If you make the assessment that even more money is needed than the billions we are now making, we are open to making a difference.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-357	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that answer. I can agree with Mats Persson that authorities do not always get what they are supposed to and should not always have what they love and want. But I think we are in an exceptional situation with regard to the law enforcement authorities. In the moderate and Christian-democratic budget, the courts received what they had asked for, but in the bill that is now on the table they receive only half of the contribution they had requested. I think that is problematic when we see a very rapid flow of targets at the same time. Unfortunately, my analysis is that much else had to be included in the budget now before us. There were too many different party-marked things that had to be included in order to prioritise municipalities and the judiciary to the extent needed. Mats Persson is welcome to contradict and say that this is not the case, but the problem remains. There is too little money for the law enforcement authorities to cope with the increased influx of cases that now exists.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-360	Madam President, I would like Jakob Forssmed is right that this is a budget that consists of many important parts. It's a historic investment in defense. It's the removal of military taxes. These are investments in the Swedish business environment. It's an investment in welfare. It is also an investment in the judiciary. It is clear that this is a budget that takes responsibility for the whole of Sweden. We are trying to deal with the problems we see in the short term. We are also trying to invest in Sweden in the long term. This applies, in particular, to the business side and the business environment. Does that mean that every budget line is Gud and perfectly constructed? Probably not. There is certainly something that may need to be changed at the next stage. The judiciary is such an area. If it turns out that the billions that are now being pushed into it are not enough, we are open to discussing and spending more money. We will study and follow this very closely, because the judiciary is a very priority.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-364	Madam President, I would like This time, too, I was going to start on a point that the Green Party and now the Liberals have in common, and it is the conviction that companies are absolutely crucial partners in dealing with the climate crisis. This is also why the government already started the broad work called Fossil-free Sweden during the previous parliamentary term, where each industry has to identify a roadmap towards fossil freedom and where the industries have the opportunity to go to the government with proposals for lower thresholds and how to sort out issues that can make it easier in the future. In that material we have a lot to work with in the future, and I look forward to doing so. However, the reason I requested a reply is different. There's one thing I don't understand. Mats Persson himself described a shift. There was a period, if I may believe Mats Persson, when the Liberals did not really take climate work seriously. Then the answer was nuclear power. Now a huge shift is taking place. Now you take the climate seriously. And the answer is nuclear power. So the answer now is the same as in the period when it was not as active as it should be now. I can't get this together. What's the new one?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-370	Madam President, I would like I'm a little surprised. I thought the Green Party was the party that thinks that the climate issue is superior to everything. This means that it is about so much more than just what energy we should have, even if it is an important part. I will come back to that. The climate issue is big and important and is, for example, about how we build our transport system. Are these electric vehicles, or are they diesel vehicles? How do we ensure that truck traffic in Sweden can switch from today's heavy traffic that vomits a lot of carbon dioxide to thinking more climate friendly? Therefore, in this budget, for which Karolina Skog is also responsible, we have pushed through an electrification commission with the aim of ensuring that heavy transport in Sweden will become more climate-friendly. That is how we deal with this issue: it is about transport and how society is built. We must do so in a much more climate-friendly way. Then we come to the conclusion, and it is not just us who do. Even the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, the Academy of Engineering Sciences and a number of different actors say that if we are going to pass this transformation and if the steel industry is going to meet its fantastic goals, then more electricity will be required in Sweden. The processes that now make climate change possible are electricity-based. We will have electric cars in the future. It will require more electricity. How are we gonna do that? If we have a need to increase the amount by 60% by 2040 or 2045, how are we going to do that? Then we conclude that all fossil-free energies will be needed: hydropower, nuclear power, wind power and solar power. Then one cannot rule out an energy type because one lives in a belief from the 1970s and 80s and is based on a view of a referendum that took place before I was even born. This is taking responsibility for the climate.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-376	Madam President, I would like I conclude that this major shift, the Liberals before and after, has so far not crystallized in any new answers. However, as the climate issue is indeed acute and needs to be superior, I welcome all men on deck and hope and look forward to a substantial turn and an opportunity to work on this together. However, I find it very difficult to see that the beginning of this would be that we withdraw the clear message that the Swedish Parliament has given to companies in Sweden precisely as regards energy policy. After all, the energy agreement was welcomed from the industry because we finally gave clear and long-term information on what will apply in that particular sector. To start by throwing those balls into the air I think is the worst thing we can do for Swedish industry and Swedish companies. We have a lot, many other things to deal with, including the transport sector that Mats Persson himself mentions.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-379	Madam President, I would like I have full respect for the agreement you have reached, but the reality has run away from it. This weekend the news came that Vattenfall says that it is open to building nuclear power. The Energy Agreement endorsed by the Green Party states that it should be closed. So reality has caught up with the agreement. From this I conclude that we must take responsibility for Sweden here and now and in the future. If we then see an increased need for electricity in the future to cope with climate change – and it is important to deal with – we cannot say that some forces are excluded from the equation. I am pleased that Karolina Skog is keen that the Liberals sharpen their climate profile. She must assume, however, that we will think of some things that we have always thought, because we have no ideological blindfolds about power strokes. The most important thing is to solve the climate issue. It's superior to everything else.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-382	Madam President, I would like We operate in a turbulent age where it is not difficult to see dark clouds in the sky. We have a global economic downturn, with increased pressure on municipalities and county councils as a result. We have terrifying violence on the streets that should feel safe. We have a sharp shift in the social debate, calling into question the fundamental pillar of democracy and, not least, xenophobia, which is allowed to flourish. In this situation, a unique budget collaboration has taken shape here in the Swedish Parliament. The budget that the government, together with the Center Party and the Liberals, have put on the table is a guarantee of a society that holds together, for a Sweden that stands firm against the right-wing populist wave that is nurtured by hatred and fear, for a Sweden that holds together. Madam President, I would like Racism and xenophobia divide and tear communities apart, restrict life opportunities and turn people against each other. And it is no less dangerous because it is polished in the edges and allowed into the fine room of power – quite the opposite. Staffanstorp, Hörby and Trelleborg are some of the municipalities that since the election are governed by blue brown parties in different constellations. The result of this is frightening and should cause any democratically minded politician to react. Bans on begging are imposed, culture and art are restricted, opposition political room for manoeuvre shrinks and national laws are ignored. Gender equality work is being strangled. More time is spent conducting cultural wars than taking care of the municipality's core business. We must never forget that this is the second government option. This is happening here and now in municipalities where leaders use their power to break down social institutions instead of building them, where democratic principles are easily thrown overboard and where the institutions of society are undermined. It is classical right-wing populist politics promoted by the party that was once formed out of the forces that wanted to preserve Sweden Swedish but which today are legitimised and applauded by parties that previously stood up for decency. That is the second government option. Madam President, I would like In the days, a newspaper stand outside the local desk for a newspaper in Staffanstorp has burned. The message to local journalists is clear: Critically reviewing a municipal management that does not do its job can cost. When newspaper stands are set on fire and journalists are threatened it is society that we feel it that burns. If journalists are silenced, democracy will also be silenced. When dark forces try to scare local media into silence, we increase support for the local media. When blue-brown rulers try to strangle young people's access to culture, we invest in the cultural school throughout the country. When cluttered politicians try to limit art, we stand by people's right to engage in free creation. That's how we create a society that stays together. Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago a child was shot on one of the streets in Malmö that I call my a. When a 15-year-old is killed by another child, you cannot be left untouched. How it affects the children, the family, Malmö and the whole of Sweden is difficult to take in, but for us politicians it is clear what the task is. We have to deal with gang crime and its causes. We must take the long and difficult path and not be content with populist explanatory models and short-term solutions. That a child shoots a child never happens in a vacuum. No child gets a hold of a weapon or comes up with the idea of using it by itself. This is happening in a context where young people's belief in the future has been broken down and has been replaced by fear and resignation. It is a context in which society has not been able to give every child a future to long for, and it is a context in which greedy and ruthless men do anything for money and power. It is the greed and ruthlessness of the men who lure and lure children into crime that we must fight by all effective means and methods. Together we equip society stronger and create a Sweden that stays together. Even though police officers are central to law enforcement work, that's not enough. Now we are strengthening all parts of the law enforcement authorities with additions to, among other things, the judiciary, youth homes and the Prison Service. Security is about preventing new crimes from being committed, not about locking up as many as possible for as long as possible. The 34-point programme presented by the government contains a broad range of measures that will, together, truly create a safer society with several ways back from crime and exclusion, with stricter penalties for those recruiting young people into crime, more and better coordinated efforts for a number of authorities and efforts to break the culture of silence. With this, we are taking decisive steps to really push back crime and to strengthen security and cohesion. That's how we build a country that stays together. Madam President, I would like A community that holds together is there when you need it most. The country's municipalities and regions face major challenges in the future. In order to give them a reasonable opportunity to maintain security and well-being, the state cannot pass on costs for the sick and unemployed in the municipalities. Yet that is exactly what the other government option proposes. When the Moderates in their budget motion choose to reintroduce the precipice of health insurance, the party shows its true face. Taxes should be reduced at all costs, even if they are at the expense of people's security. The slaughter of labour market policies that the right-wing parties started last year will continue. It will be the sick and the unemployed who will have to pay for the costs of the tax-deductive policies of the right-wing parties. The municipalities remain with increased costs of support for livelihoods. We know that Sweden can take a different path and be a country that stays together. Madam President, I would like There are those who devote a lot of energy to the fact that the January agreement, on which this budget rests, does not have a common story – as if that were the important thing. But what is the basis for cooperation, and which makes it possible to draw up a budget for the country, is a belief in democracy, cohesion, security and, not least, transparency. That, Madam President, is good enough for me. That is why I support the proposal in the Committee on Finance's report. I think that many people feel that it is now serious that the political choices we are making now will fundamentally affect which country and which world our children are growing up in. I choose a Sweden that stays together.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-399	Madam President, I would like Karolina Skog chooses a Sweden that holds together. Then she should support the Moderates' budget, which strengthens the municipalities, security and the whole judiciary. But those weren't the things I was going to mention. I found it refreshing that Karolina Skog raised the issue of aid earlier in the debate. We rarely talk about aid, even though it is the policy area that grows every year without us making a decision on it. You can call that generous, but you can also wonder if there are no better ways to be generous. I imagine that it is better to be generous with high aid and also decide what levels it should be every year, what to prioritise and how to do the follow-up so that the aid is used in the best possible way. That is why we Moderates have proposed that Sweden should leave the 1% target. Only Norway and Sweden have that goal. Instead, we should have a four-year framework and hold debates in Parliament where it is clear how the aid is to be used. Moreover, much of the aid is not really used for what we have in mind. We should also debate this more. Magda Gad is doing a solid job in Afghanistan. She reported in Expressen the other day that Taliban are actually financed by Swedish aid. You're amazed when you read the article. It is about as bizarre as the existence of a Minister of Defence in Iraq, which is also partly financed by Swedish taxpayers. These are two absurd situations. Now that it is an environmental party in place and you have that portfolio in the government, and given that this cannot be a completely new task for the Green Party, I would like to ask Karolina Skog how she views how the aid is actually being used.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-404	Madam President, I would like I agree with the view that we really should talk more about Swedish aid in this House. We have a lot to be proud of. Swedish aid is effective. When independent reviewers review Swedish aid, they conclude that overall it is effective. The aid is used by and reaches out to those who need it most, the most affected. It is also widely used to maintain active environmental and climate action in the global community in the world. Such a large policy area is, of course, also being developed. I do not think that any former Minister for Development, regardless of colour, or any sensible Member of Parliament can say that every crown is used perfectly. The assistance shall be kept under constant review and, when the audit is carried out, the work shall be adapted accordingly. It's continuous work. There's nothing finished where you say it's good. One thing that the Minister for Development has announced is that the share of aid that will go to the environment and climate in the future will increase. This is due, among other things, to the withdrawal of so many other countries on this particular issue. It is one thing that we need to adapt to the way other countries do, but we will also continue to strengthen work on sexual and reproductive health for the same reasons – needs remain but other countries are backing up. Of course, aid is constantly changing, and it certainly deserves to be debated in this House.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-407	Madam President, I would like Of course, much of the Swedish aid goes to very good ends. That is why we should continue to be generous. With Moderate politics, Sweden would have been the third most generous country in the entire OECD. That's good. But we need to get a better order on where the money goes. There's a need for a framework. It is time for the Swedish Parliament to make decisions on the matter. I did not receive an answer to my question about the Taliban and aid. This is an example of many where there are abuses that should be curbed, and we really should be even more evaluating and monitoring what Swedish aid is going to do. Aid should continue to go to the poor. It is 15–20 per cent of the aid goes to what is called emergency aid, but there is also a lot of money for things that the Swedish taxpayer probably does not know is quite right, especially in times when we also need money for the police and welfare.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-410	Madam President, I would like What Elisabeth Svantesson says in other words is a reduction in aid and nothing else. It is a priority shift from aid, from the world's poor, to tax cuts for rich people in Sweden. This is the transfer that Elisabeth Svantesson proposes, no matter what it is called. The Green Party and the government stand for something else. The parties defending the January Agreement and supporting it stand up for Swedish aid. More than ever is needed now that work on a global scale is going in the wrong direction. When many countries fail children and women, Sweden will increase that work, and we cannot do that at the same time as we greatly reduce aid. That doesn't make any sense.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-412	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karolina Skog, for your speech. There was a lot to grip on there, but I got caught up in one thing above all. It was the attacks on, among others, me on major tax cuts, which were contrasted with prosperity and cohesion. Maybe those were last year's speeches? I don't know. It is in the government proposal that the biggest economic policy reform is about tax reductions only for the most wealthy in Sweden. So it is Karolina Skog who is presenting this policy, not me. I invest more in welfare than Karolina Skog does – significantly more, many billions more, than Karolina Skog. Apart from that, I thought I'd return what Karolina Skog did earlier and find some common ground in the debate. After a certain period of absence, I think we are beginning to see that the Green Party is also addressing or drawing attention to the issue of young people who find it difficult to enter the market for owned housing. They cannot buy apartments in growth centres, now they can't buy apartments in ordinary medium-sized towns. They are becoming increasingly difficult with this because of credit restrictions and the conditions prevailing in the housing market. You have opened up proposals on start-up loans, for example, to make it easier for young people to enter and not be driven into poverty traps, as newly produced rental apartments can sometimes be. My question is mainly when you intend to present proposals that will remedy the problem that young people cannot enter the market for owned housing to a sufficient extent.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-418	Madam President, I would like I thank Jakob Forssmed for the initiative to identify that we agree that we need to do more to facilitate entry into the Swedish housing market. There are several groups affected. Young people often live in a relatively precarious labour market situation. Their position in the job market could be bad. But even the new arrivals find it difficult to enter the Swedish housing market. There are quite a few who dream of owning their home. We have announced a major review of the Swedish tax system. In it, questions related to the housing market will be given. That's part of the answer. In addition to that, both me and my party partner, the Minister for Housing, have a lot of dialogue with the actors in the housing market who are looking at what can be done to facilitate the entry. We welcome with interest some of the proposals that have been made. It is an important dialogue that is being conducted, and we will come back with proposals. We will also give some time to discuss with our partners in the January agreement with the hope that we will be able to come up with joint proposals in these parts.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-423	Madam President, I would like My problem / my opportunity is that I have to rely on the Green Party, which sits at the steering pacts when it comes to housing policy. I have previously had a change of line with Emil Källström on these issues. There has also been an interest in this. I hope that the talks you are about to hold will really lead to rapid results and that you will not refer the whole discussion to the major tax reform that the January parties want to carry out. We heard in the Saturday interview with the Minister for Finance that you do not yet agree on the forms in which you will discuss the tax agreement. Then it may be a while before it is in place. I very much hope that measures such as start-up loans, which can play a fiscally neutral but yet large and important role, will be put in place very soon. It needs the Swedish housing market, it needs growth and it needs the first-time buyers who do not get the chance.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-426	Madam President, I would like I would like to take this opportunity to say that, as a new member of economic policy, I am very pleased that the debate on housing policy has finally ended up where it belongs. It is about funding, and it is about money. For a very long time, not least during the time when the Christian Democrats held the Ministry of Housing, we were seduced to believe that everything is about rules. If we make some rule changes, everything's just gonna be okay. It didn't. I also draw that conclusion from the lines here today. It is about financing, about the possibility of financing new housing and the possibility of entering the housing market. There we are now in the discussion. It opens up the possibility of finding real and future-oriented solutions.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-429	Madam President, I would like The Government submitted this year's budget proposal to the Riksdag at a time of economic slowdown both in Sweden and abroad, where the international economic cycle gives a clear impression on the Swedish economy. The projections since then confirm the government's picture of the state of the economy. The risks also persist in our world, even if a disorderly Brexit is temporarily averted and trade talks are now taking place between China and the United States. At the same time, Sweden faces both problems and challenges that do not take account of the economic situation but, on the contrary, become more costly the longer we wait. Recent shootings and bombings require more powerful reforms that fight crime but also counter the causes of crime. Health care, education and care must be expanded with tens of thousands of new employees as the 40s approach their 80s. They've built this country, which we're so proud of. They have the right to a safe old age. At the same time, the large children of the 90's are now about to start their own family. In addition, the effects of climate change are increasingly visible. That is something that we know must be met with an ambitious and fair transition, both to hand over a sustainable society to our children and grandchildren and to secure the jobs and prosperity of the future. Sweden's employment rate is the highest in the EU, but the slowdown is now also visible in the Swedish labour market. More people born abroad – not least women – need to get to work, and when old jobs disappear, the opportunities to change must become more. Not least, the cohesion of our society must be strengthened. The gaps must be reduced, both between city and country and within our cities. Madam President, I would like The government has equipped Sweden for the slowdown. With the lowest public debt since 1977 and the highest employment rate in the EU, we can both face the slowdown in the economy and build society stronger to tackle social problems. To reach the target of 10,000 more police workers, the government has more than doubled police training. Next year it is proposed that the Police Authority receive the largest increase in funding in modern times. On Monday 546 new graduates went to work for the first time. However, as the police themselves say, the whole of society must play its part in the fight against crime. The increased influx of cases will be met with more prosecutors, judges and correctional officers. The presence of the Customs Department at our borders will increase to stop the smuggling of weapons and drugs. The enforcement body shall ensure that life criminals, who often have large debts to their victims, should not walk around with gold chains or drive luxury cars. If you're a criminal, you're not driving a luxury car. You're going to jail.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-443	Preventive work in municipalities must be strengthened. The social services will capture young people who are at risk of being recruited for crime, and the school will provide all young people with dreams and opportunities to form a future with a livelihood on their own work. At the same time, many municipalities and regions currently have a strained economy when it is necessary to expand welfare to ensure a safe old age for our elderly. The Government's contribution of SEK 35 billion to the local government sector continues to grow throughout its term of office. Municipalities with the greatest socio-economic challenges and those who have taken particular responsibility for the reception of asylum seekers and new arrivals also receive additional financial support. At the same time, the government is well aware that although the contributions facilitate, more will be needed in the coming years. For our older people with the lowest pensions, basic protection is being strengthened, while the unfairly higher tax rate for pensioners is being abolished for more people. With the tax cut we are now proposing, the election promise of the Social Democrats of 2014 if completely abolished pensioner's tax is fulfilled. The Swedish Democrats, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats, however, again created a new tax gap for pensioners last year. The pace increases in the work to make Sweden the world's first fossil-free welfare country, and Industrikliv is being expanded to support and drive industry's own investments in reduced emissions. We increase the state presence throughout the country, including new service offices in Storuman, Torsby, Vansbro and Åsele. In the context of the green tax shift, reduced tax rates are proposed for many people living in sparsely populated areas. Sweden is linked with improved maintenance of roads and railways, and the pace of broadband roll-out is increasing throughout the country. In addition, support continues for the construction of rental apartments, with rents that ordinary people can afford to pay. The defence is given new resources through the introduction of a bank tax. So, Madam President, we are building Sweden stronger to face the problems of society. Madam President, I would like The last time I stood here to debate the budget bill, the opposition parties had not yet put their cards on the table and presented their own draft budgets. In today's debate, the options are much clearer. I note that the opposition shares the Government's ambition to expand not only the police but the entire judiciary: the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Prison Service, the Customs Agency, the Kronofogden, the State Department Board and others. At the same time, I can see that the high tone of the right-wing parties is not quite in line with the concrete proposals it makes. In addition, the opposition has finally discovered the worrying economic situation in municipalities and regions, which the government has pointed out for many years. During the last parliamentary term, resources for welfare increased step by step by 35 billion, partly during protests by opposition parties, who preferred to lower the tax. The fact that we are now talking about increased state subsidies is certainly welcomed by both local and regional councillors until they know how to finance them. There would be a new stock of health insurance, which would roll over the cost to the municipalities when sick and others are thrown out and had to seek support from the social services. We would have an almost completely dismantled labour market policy, which would shift all responsibility for conversion and labour market training to the municipalities, which would drive up the cost of supply support even more. The state would completely abdicate its part of the responsibility for new arrivals through the abolition of start-up aid. The right parties give to the municipalities with one hand but take at least as much with the other. I can still note that the lack of interest in resources for welfare in practice does not go beyond rhetorical. Madam President, I would like What the right parties think they can afford, however, is more tax cuts. It was not enough with the tax cuts of 20 billion that the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats pushed through before Sweden even had a new government in place, money that, by the way, had done much good in welfare right now. Nor is the tax cuts that the government is now implementing in this budget enough. It is clear that the right-wing parties, regardless of the problems facing Sweden, always have the same solution: reduced taxes and then, when the results fail, even more tax reductions. This is how the conservative bloc's options look – a policy to make Sweden a little less like Sweden. I want Sweden to move in a different direction. Madam President, I would like The budget proposal before the House today is cooperation between the government, the Center Party and the Liberals. In a new political landscape, we have chosen cooperation and compromise to address the social problems facing Sweden. Together, we are now laying the foundations for a stronger society, where cohesion and security go hand in hand with people's freedom and opportunities. This is how we take Sweden forward.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-457	Madam President, I would like Every day we now share in the savings in welfare. Saving lists are rolling by. One day LSS accommodation is to be closed, the second day it is saved on staff in preschool and the next day field assistants disappear. It is reduced in substance abuse care and family home placements. Then it is dementia housing that is to be closed or have lower staffing, and there are general reductions in staff in the care of the elderly. The next day it will be student assistants who will be removed and special education that will be withdrawn, as well as teaching materials, and extensive reductions in staff at school that will be done. There will be fewer teachers but more students. Eight out of ten municipalities will save next year. This particularly affects preschool, school and care for the elderly. Staff cuts are waiting because that's where the big money is. Four out of five municipalities save on school. Every other municipality saves on the most vulnerable in society, i.e. the disabled, children placed in a family home and addicts in need of care. For example, extra money is removed for Christmas from the support. In Gävleborg, ten out of ten municipalities will save, mainly at preschool, school and care for the elderly. In health care, 18 out of 20 regions are in deficit. This list seems to be able to be made endless. Savings affect us all, but above all old people, children, disabled people, young people who suffer ill, and the employees of welfare, who already carry welfare on their shoulders. This is a consequence of the budget proposal we are now debating, for which the Social Democrats are ultimately responsible. Did you not know what savings were expected, despite all the signals and forecasts that were on the table when you negotiated the budget? Or did you choose to turn a blind eye to this in order to reduce taxes, the Minister for Finance?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-461	Madam President, I would like Ulla Andersson raises an urgent issue. The situation in both municipalities and regions is challenging and, in some municipalities and regions, very serious. We have seen that we are going to have increased welfare needs for a long time – so long that this is actually one of the reasons why we introduced the surplus target into public finances and paid off on public debt in order to meet this situation without having high interest and amortisation expenses on public debt. We also saw it last term of office. That is why, in cooperation with the Left Party, we contributed 35 billion to municipalities and regions. We see clearly that we will have to continue to increase resources during this term of office, but also in the next. In addition to the 5 welfare billions coming on 1 January, we have special investments in municipalities that face the toughest challenges – socio-economically vulnerable municipalities but also municipalities that have taken a particularly large responsibility for new arrivals. I see in my view that additional resources will be needed for both municipalities and regions in the coming years. This will be a clear priority for us Social Democrats. I have also made it clear that we will, of course, implement the January Agreement, but that we need to put all other wishes into line with the needs we see emerging in municipalities and county councils. In addition, I will of course closely monitor what is now happening with the development of tax revenues in municipalities and county councils. We have a declining economic cycle and a declining trend in the labour market and must be prepared to come up with further measures to respond to a deterioration in development.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-466	Madam President, I would like The whole 73-point group, including the Social Democrats, says that they prioritise welfare. But if this is a priority for welfare, you really wonder. It is because people are getting hurt today but even more savings are planned. There will be major consequences. The Minister of Finance is talking about children who are at risk of criminality and that social services should make contributions. How are they going to do that? Are they going to do magic with their knees? When it comes to children having to feel hope and faith in the future when they are in school – how will teachers manage to give it to them if it is to be saved all the time? It is de facto that you spend much more money on reducing taxes for, above all, well-off men than you spend on contributions to welfare, Magdalena Andersson. If these are your priorities, I really wonder how the Social Democracy is doing. It is you who are responsible for the savings that are now rolling forward in welfare.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-468	Madam President, I would like It is no secret that an abolished military tax is not a Social Democratic priority, but we take responsibility for the whole. In a difficult parliamentary situation, we have chosen this cooperation, because we saw that the alternative would not be better for welfare. The offer that the Moderates and Christian Democrats made to the Swedish Democrats included the abolition of the military tax, but we also saw the result of the budget that they pushed through and that applies to this year. In addition to reducing the tax by 20 billion, savings were made to the Public Employment Service, which means that municipalities now have increased costs of supporting income and that foreign-born women's unemployment is rising. That is the alternative. Unfortunately, the alternative is not a Social Democratic majority government that can govern and set itself, Ulla Andersson, but we need to relate to the majority of the parliament. With this cooperation, we can provide the municipalities with more resources, and more will be needed.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-470	Madam President, I would like First of all, a few brief facts: with the Moderates' draft budget, we are strengthening security. We are investing heavily in welfare, and we are lowering taxes for everyone who works and for all pensioners. However, I was going to raise my eyes a little and say a few words about the funding of welfare in both the next year and the coming years. There is nothing more important to it than jobs and integration. Job brings not only friends, contexts and development, and that you can support yourself, but also with jobs brings tax revenue to the common so that we can also strengthen welfare in the future. Before the government took office just over five years ago, Stefan Löfven said: "If I can form a government, I will demand the notification of each minister and every head of authority whether a decision means more jobs or not. The promise then was the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020, i.e. in just a few weeks' time. Instead, Sweden now has almost the highest unemployment rate throughout the Union. We have even been the worst in the EU at reducing unemployment since the Prime Minister and Finance Minister took up their jobs, despite the fact that the country has had a strong boom. Sweden and the Swedish people will have to pay a high price for this. We are already doing this, but we will have to pay even more when the economic cycle is reversed. I wonder, Madam President: what is the Minister for Finance's explanation for the fact that Sweden's unemployment has developed so terribly in relation to all the other countries of the European Union? Why has it gone so badly?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-475	Madam President, I would like This is because the government's policy for more people to enter the labour market has been very successful. The measures we have taken to ensure that, not least, foreign-born women enter the labour market have had an effect. We abolished the custody allowance, which led to more women entering the labour market. We changed parental insurance so that newly arrived women do not start their years in Sweden by being on parental leave but instead enter the labour market. We have taken a wide range of measures to ensure that more people enter the labour market. It's had an effect. The reason why unemployment has not fallen back more than it has, therefore, is not that few are in work. On the contrary, we had the highest employment rate ever measured in any EU country. There are therefore not few people who work, but more people are seeking out into the labour market. That is basically a positive thing. It is important here that everyone who listens to this is informed that unemployment is measured not by the whole population but by the number of people entering the labour market. If you measure the population as a whole, more people than ever work, but because there are also more people than ever who enter the labour market, unemployment does not fall. Basically, then, we have been successful in getting more people into work and into the labour market. I can possibly say that there may actually be something in the deep criticism that the Moderates have had for all these years in terms of measuring unemployment alone. When looking at the labour market, one should actually look at both the employment rate, the participation rate, unemployment and hours worked. We chose to take out unemployment, and it is of course important to have low unemployment. However, we achieved the objective of civility for more people in employment many years ago.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-479	Madam President, I would like It was a long statement but a strange answer. Nevertheless, the Minister for Finance seems quite satisfied that Sweden's unemployment is now among the highest in the EU. I do not think the Minister for Finance should be. Reforms are needed, and I mentioned some in my speech. Another thing I would like to point out to the Government and the Minister for Finance is to account for the employment effects of various political decisions. Politics matters. For every political decision presented by this government and its four support parties, employment effects should be accounted for. It would then be concluded that reforms that strengthen job creation in this budget are rather shaky. I also have the impression that this will also be the case in the future budgets.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-481	Madam President, I would like I think it is better not to achieve the objective and that it is not only because many people have jobs but also because more people are seeking out on the labour market than if it is the result of fewer people entering the labour market and perhaps less employment. I'd rather have this situation. It is important that women born abroad also enter the labour market, but unfortunately we are now seeing the result of Moderate policies – the one that applies to this year – with the dramatic cuts made by Moderates in labour market policy. They are increasing the unemployment rate of women born abroad, precisely because the labour market policy that has been particularly important for those born abroad, such as extra services, is being dramatically dismantled with Moderate policies. It's almost communicating vessels. Municipal councillors talk about unemployment among newly arrived women doubling due to Elisabeth Svantesson's dismantling of labour market policy. This is what moderate employment policy looks like in practice.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-483	Madam President, I would like If Magdalena Andersson received a thousand for every time she distanced herself from the biggest economic-political reform in the budget, she would certainly be able to finance large parts of the budget. I am, of course, talking about the removal of military taxes. It was interesting to hear Magdalena Andersson talk to Ulla Andersson about the Christian Democrats and Moderates' somewhat broader tax incentives for everyone who works and for pensioners. They remain with Magdalena Andersson's budget, topped with tax breaks only for the most wealthy. I have nothing against tax incentives, but I think the profile is somewhat peculiar – especially given the very small investments in health care, school and welfare that the government is making. There are 25 billion in the scope for reform, but the money that goes out to the local government sector is easy to count. The money goes to other things, such as tax relief, development time, ineffective climate action and other things. Out to welfare, there will be very little resources. I am thinking about Magdalena Andersson's own analysis of this. What does Magdalena Andersson think it does for public confidence in politics that no one really takes responsibility for the whole and that in a situation of major cuts in the municipalities there is no more in the welfare of the government and the January parties?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-486	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Jakob Forssmed takes up the defense tax. We all remember that the Christian Democrats, together with the Moderates, made an offer to the Swedish Democrats which just contained an abolished military tax. It may be good if Jakob Forssmed also takes responsibility for that offer. I have said many times that, of course, I am behind the whole of the January agreement, and it includes an abolished military tax. However, it is no secret that it is not the priority of the Social Democrats. When I'm out knocking on doors, nobody feels the slightest bit confused about it, because they know what the Social Democrats stand for. They also know what the Center Party and Liberals think is important politics. This was a way to move forward in a locked parliamentary position. We would never have agreed to this if there were not also very extensive increases in resources to municipalities and county councils in the January agreement, and there are SEK 20 billion. It is as much as the Christian Democrats pushed through in tax reductions from 1 January this year. We know what the Christian Democrats are talking about, but we also know what happens when you press the button in Parliament. Then it is tax cuts that the Christian Democrats think is important. On the eve of this year, you reduced the tax by 20 billion before a new government was even in place, and during the eight years that the Christian Democrats were in government, you reduced the tax by 140 billion. In the budget now under discussion, the Christian Democrats propose further tax cuts of 20 billion. This is twice as much as other areas, such as welfare or justice. It is therefore clear that the Christian Democrats think that tax cuts are important and that this is a clear priority for you.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-491	Madam President, I would like I don't really know where to start with the inaccuracies. Firstly, we are not lowering the tax net by a few 20 billion next year, but by 8.8. You're on 13, I think, so you're breaking us this time. We invest in welfare and justice – police, customs and courts – and we invest 3.4 billion in elderly care next year. So there are no 20 billion we are reducing the tax by. We lowered the tax widely for people who work, because we think it's important. You leave that behind and top up with tax cuts for only the most wealthy while eight out of ten municipalities save. I do not think it is a wise policy to do so, but one can have different views on it. I am not aware of any offer to the Swedish Democrats. On the other hand, we also had discussions with the Center and Liberals about the military tax. The fact that such discussions were held is correct, but that it would have happened with the Swedish Democrats is quite wrong.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-495	Madam President, I would like I am not saying that the Christian Democrats had discussions with the Swedish Democrats, not when Jakob Forssmed was there anyway. It was at a lunch a little later. However, the Moderates and Christian Democrats were clear about the policy they wanted to pursue when they wanted to form a small government – which would depend on the Swedish Democrats at every push of the button. The birth tax was part of it, so it is a little strange that Jakob Forssmed now takes such a powerful distance from it. He was obviously prepared to press that button – just as Jakob Forssmed has been prepared to press the tax sink button time and time again: 20 billion this year at the latest and 140 billion earlier. The Christian Democrats may speak of welfare, but we know who they are working with and where it ultimately lands. Tax cuts take precedence over welfare every time. Every time the Christian Democrats have had any influence on economic policy, it is the tax-depressor button that is being pushed on in this House.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-498	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by re-establishing the task of having been offered by the Christian Democrats and the Moderates to lower the military tax. It's not consistent with the truth. But that is not what I wanted to talk about in the first place. In 2016, approximately 12 500 people were granted work permits in Sweden. The following year there were 15 500, then 20 800 and this year just under 20 000. It is therefore a clearly rising trend. It is not, of course, a coincidence, but a direct result of politics. Had all these individuals been particularly in demand on the labour market, brought with them special knowledge and skills and worked for a high salary and paid taxes thereafter, I would not have thought this to be worrying, quite the contrary. But that is not the case. Only about four out of ten are highly educated, and the wage requirement is as low as $15,000 a month. This increases competition among those who already have a relatively weak position in the labour market. Sweden has, without competition, the western world's most demanding regulations on labour migration. Why do the Social Democrats not want to tighten up this undemanding regulatory framework?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-502	Madam President, I would like It is clear what we Social Democrats want, and we have a party congress decision that we want a different framework for labour immigration. However, it has not been possible to implement it in the parliamentary situation that has been in Sweden. We will see what happens and how the discussions proceed. A party, the Moderates, has changed its mind on this issue. We'll see if more parties change their minds. However, we stand by the view we have. Oscar Sjöstedt says that he has no problem with people from other countries coming here as long as they are needed in the Swedish labour market. But earlier today Oscar Sjöstedt in the speaker's chair said that crime has to do with immigration. It is not, therefore, a question of going into residential areas where poverty is present. Since it is not the explanation without many people coming here, I wonder how Oscar Sjöstedt is reasoning. If it is not poverty that explains the crime in our vulnerable residential areas, I suppose it is that people have immigrated here and what their biological heritage is. If that is the explanation, how is it unproblematic that people come here from other countries through labour immigration?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-505	Madam President, I would like Biological heritage is the subject of the Social Democrats, as they have done historically. There is a link between migration and crime. If you deny it, you have not understood anything and should do something else. There is a direct link between migration and crime. That's it. Madam President, I would like If a number of parties move forward in this House and, by means of a committee initiative or similar, want to tighten up the callless regulatory framework and perhaps adjust the wage requirements, will the Social Democrats support such a coalition of parties, whatever it may be, so that we can achieve a fairly secure majority in this House? That's a straight question.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-508	Madam President, I would like If I am not misinformed, biological heritage was precisely something that the Swedish Democrats decided last weekend when the inherited essence was replaced by a biological heritage. However, I can be misinformed, because I have not read the Minutes. The whole of Oscar Sjöstedt's main speech was about where people come from and that is the reason for the crime. But when people come from other countries and work it is suddenly okay, as long as their skills are demanded in the Swedish labour market. It doesn't make any sense. The truth is that no matter how much the Swedish democrats try to wash away their racist stripes, they remain – and it is nasty to see.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-511	Madam President, I would like Ola Salo used to replace or at least stand-in for Peter Jöback in Kristina from Duvemåla. I think there are many of us who might share that feeling a little bit, that now that the cat is gone, others will dance on the table. After an already long and intensive economic policy debate, it is time for the fiscal debate in the context of the overall economic policy. Having said that, I can add that I think that Ola Salo is a fantastic singer in many ways, so that there is no doubt about it. Madam President, I would like I love Sweden. There are many of us in this country who have had the chance to do things that our parents could not do and who have had the chance to do things that our grandparents could not even dream of. I love Sweden because we have an industry, an innovation capacity and an entrepreneurship that has given industrial workers, construction workers and broad employee groups opportunities, life opportunities and income that one could not dream of in other countries. I love Sweden because we have world-leading companies that have taken the world by storm for many years and thus made it possible for us to finance elderly care, school and health care for all people who have needed it, not just those who have been able to afford it. I also love Sweden because we have been a country that has given people chances when their own countries have not done so or have even fallen apart. As an 80-talian, I went to school in the 1990s, and we were many who got new classmates from Iraq, from a decaying Yugoslavia, from East Africa and so on. They had no chances of life left in their homelands, but here they got the chances they took. They've done amazing things, not just for themselves, but for us as a country. But what has happened since then? In a relatively short time, what has this proud, high - performance, capable and skilled country turned into or become? It is people who are afraid, women who dare not go outside when it has become dark, people who have been executed on the open street, religious extremism, fanatics and people who seriously threaten the foundations of our country but who cannot be rejected from here, segregation that has become so deep that children in many areas and schools do not even believe that they can be part of a good or better future, parents who have no chance or ability to raise and give opportunities to their children as they would of course basically like, children who never see parents going to work and children who do not see that they can become anything here. Instead, there are curls from the criminal gangs. Yes, why should you not follow them when you still have nothing else to become in this world? It is women who live in isolation and who are not allowed to stay outdoors. This applies not only to those who are afraid to go out but also to those who are not allowed to go out. There are queues for the medical care that should be for everyone. People die unnecessarily because of non-treatment. How could this amazing country so quickly become a country with such serious problems? It has become popular to say: We did not see this coming. We had no idea. But the hand on the heart, Madam President: of course we did. We're not that blue-eyed that we didn't see these problems coming. Something could have been done about them, but now it's what it is. It is we in here who have the ability and the right to make the decisions that can solve the problems, and we should do so. Madam President, I would like What I have talked about so far is what you can easily see by reading newspapers and being part of our surrounding society. We face all the people who are afraid, and we read about those who have been executed. We see the segregation that characterizes the lives of many people. We see the results of failure at school and in the labour market and of an immigration policy that we have lost control of. What you don't see as easily but as you know is behind many of the problems is an economy that no longer works as well as it has the potential to do. Swedish industry, Swedish innovation capacity and Swedish entrepreneurship are no longer in the same class and scope as they once were. Economic growth is predicted next year to be the lowest in the European Union as a whole. Madam President, I would like The problem with economic growth is that it is not a figure on paper. Economic growth is money in the bank account on the day the salary is paid. Economic growth is hundreds and thousands, or millions and billions for us in this House, which we can allocate to police, health care and school, but which we are now without because the Swedish economy has lost its ability to grow. We heard Elisabeth Svantesson say earlier that Sweden now belongs to the countries with the highest unemployment rate throughout the European Union. We are also the country that is expected to get the lowest growth across the European Union. A good political ambition would be to ensure that it is exactly the opposite. Sweden should be the country with the highest growth throughout the European Union and the lowest unemployment rate. Today it is exactly the opposite. We see other problems that clearly characterise our country. It is an increasing wear and tear between town and country, the center and the periphery, where people in many cities and in many places feel that this country has very little to offer them. It has become longer for school, and it has become longer for the workplace. Nevertheless, it should still be more expensive to get there, because politicians in Stockholm make decisions over people's heads and say that they should not drive a car, even though the car itself is the opportunity to stay, work and live there, to be able to take the children to hockey practice and be able to get to work or visit Mom at the retirement home. It is no wise environmental policy to say that the people who depend on the car are villains, because they are not. They carry Sweden forward, Madam President. We have major problems in the municipal economy. The core of welfare is to some extent threatened in its fundamentals when we can no longer pay for what is most important. Madam President, I would like What's the knot we've put on ourselves? It is, of course, easy to get carried away in a debate about politicians' contempt or general abandonment. Honestly, I meet politicians from all parties who want Sweden well, who are talented and who have abilities, but the December agreement and the January agreement have struck a knot in our work that means that we are not, at least not enough, in Sweden's service. There is a need for a Swedish agreement, not a December agreement or a January agreement. We need a policy that puts Sweden first and where we are prepared to do what is necessary to make Sweden a good country again. Madam President, I would like For this, taxes are important. Taxes affect whether it should pay to work or invest. Taxes affect how the environment can be steered towards more account being taken of the quality of life of future generations. For us Moderates, it goes without saying that taxes should be designed in such a way that it should be profitable to work. Therefore, we propose, for example, that the job tax credit be extended so that it is 300 – 500 SEK more profitable to work. It is, of course, important that it be for the people who go to work every day and, despite the difficulties and problems of our welfare, still choose to contribute to themselves and others. But that is not why we want to reduce tax in essence; it is because it brings more people into the labour market. The RUT and the job tax credit have so far created about 150 000 jobs that we would not otherwise have had. We have a tax policy that gives something to anyone who makes an effort or who has made an effort. We cut the tax twice as much for twice as many pensioners compared to the government. With our tax policy, some 7 million people are improving. This compares with the very narrow tax policy of the government base, where about 3 million people – those who are best placed in each group – receive more money. The Moderates have a fairer tax policy that benefits more people and gives more people a job to go to. We have a policy for the whole of Sweden. Not all problems can be solved, but many problems can be mitigated. And, Madam President, one of the problems that Sweden needs to solve is that many people in many places do not feel that the community gives them enough. We are concerned about the huge tax increases that have been made on the car in recent years and which have made it unprofitable to go to work for many people around the country. That is why we are making substantial tax cuts on fuel so that it will be 1 crown cheaper to refuel. This helps to make it easier to work and to start and run businesses all over the country. With this, Madam President, I would like to endorse reservations 1 and 5.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-532	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the Swedish Democrats' reservations 2 and 6 to be approved in the report. In this House, we have different ideological starting points, but we still broadly agree on taxation. There is a broad majority in favour of the public having great commitments in terms of defence, law and order, health care, education, welfare and so on. Sweden has a relatively functioning tax system which enjoys a relatively high level of acceptance on the part of the tax collective. This trust is something that we politicians must cherish, a work that has several dimensions. We cannot, therefore, easily spend the financial resources that we actually impose on entrepreneurs, employees and pensioners. Let me just give you a few examples. Säpo recently sounded the alarm that violent extreme organizations receive millions of grants from state and municipalities. In addition, as a member of an entrepreneur's family from the Gnosjö region, I can confirm that entrepreneurs look with great irritation at how their paid tax revenue is wasted. And as if it were not enough, politicians do not hesitate to take the contributions of entrepreneurs and other taxpayers for granted. A little further left, we also note a kind of contempt for society's most durable drag horses. This, Madam President, is a dangerous road. It is unwise to saw the branch on which you sit. The taxpayer must see for himself that his or her contribution to society is well managed. At the risk of tearing out an old famous quote: Every wasted tax crown is a theft from the people. At the same time, we should not turn a blind eye to how the national economy works. Excessive taxes reduce incentives to work. Too high taxes today will lead to a eroded tax base tomorrow. Overly high taxes are a threat to what we all protect – security, law and order, and the core of welfare. The direction of the Swedish democrats is thus a reduced tax burden in favour of the development of the economy and society and the individual's right to his or her own work's rewards. From the left, it often sounds like a reduced tax would be a sort of theft from the people, which is only true if the state owns 100 percent of the salary when it is paid. So, Madam President, it cannot reasonably be. The Swedish Democrats advocate a reduced tax of 10 billion, a tax relief for all employees and pensioners who also delete what remains of the pensioner's tax. This tax reduction is not aimed at any specific geographical region and not at any particular age group. It is general but has the greatest relative importance for low and middle wage earners. As most people in this House say they want to see a balance between reasonable taxation and general welfare, most also agree that it should be possible to live and live in all of Sweden's regions. Tax on petrol and diesel generates up to 60 billion to the state per year – a seemingly inexhaustible source of tax revenue for the Minister of Finance, who also wants to increase the tax on fuel with the consumer price index plus 2 percent per year. You may think that we rubbed our eyes when the government called it a reduction when the increase in fuel tax by 2020 would be only 12 cents. The problem with an increasing tax on fuel is that it is a tax on mobility, a charge that with precision meets hard-working people who try to make the everyday puzzle go together. It hits the countryside hard and very often lacks a reasonable alternative to your own car. The Swedish democrats say no to the policy of a constant increase in the price of mobility. Our policy is the opposite. It should be cheaper to get to and from work, cheaper to drive children to and from leisure activities and also cheaper to visit mother-in-laws who live 20 km away. That is why we say no to the government's increase in fuel tax by 12 cents, and on the contrary, we want to reduce the tax on fuel by 1 crown liter. We see this as a step in the right direction in any case. At the same time, we are opposed to any proposal to reduce the travel allowance. Furthermore, we are opposed to the government's system, which is known as bonus – malus, i.e. a penalty tax on slightly larger cars, not to mention light trucks and motor homes, where we will be able to see tax levels of up to SEK 35 000 per year. Madam President, I would like Another unwieldy taxation is the excise duties which have begun to appear and which should be commented on separately. Aviation tax is a symbolic measure that is justified by environmental considerations but which practically brings in 11⁄2 billion per year for the government. Now domestic aviation has a role to play for those who need to travel long and fast. Everyone who has spent 15 hours on the train between Stockholm and Kiruna knows that. The train has its given role, but sometimes domestic flights are needed at a reasonable price. In addition, we are now seeing airlines adapting and moving their departures from Sturup border airport in favour of Copenhagen Kastrup Airport, leading to fewer departures from Sturup and, by extension, probably also to redundancies of staff. The tax on plastic bags, which the government and its partner parties have agreed on, will be SEK 3 per plastic bag, i.e. several hundred percent tax, a little depending on how you count. This means that plastic bags are expected to be replaced by cotton bags that must be reused up to 400 times before it pays off from an energy perspective. So looking at this from a resource and environmental perspective raises more questions. So to the so-called chemical tax. Studies show that the chemical tax has hit Swedish trade hard. As a result, every ten purchases have been moved from Swedish stores to foreign websites. It is harmful to business and leads to lower revenues, which was exactly what we Swedish democrats warned about. We also see proposals on waste incineration tax. It is a tax that has previously existed but was removed because it did not have the effect that was expected. Now it is to be reintroduced without any evidence that would have changed the conditions. Instead, this will lead to increased prices of district heating, reduced profitability of waste incineration plants and thus reduced resources for these plants to invest in even cleaner and more environmentally friendly technologies than they currently have. The adaptation of companies to the new situation has led some to move away from Sweden, which means fewer Swedish jobs and, by extension, less resources to the public sector. This, Madam President, is counterproductive tax policy which we in the Swedish Democrats are opposed to. It is bad for the consumer, bad for the trade and bad for the public purse. But we should not allow these differences to overshadow what we have in common. We all want to see a cohesive Sweden, where those who work contribute to society's public institutions in favour of security, cohesion and general welfare. We may have a slightly different view of how to get there. But then our task in this House is to pursue compromise constructively. It is in this spirit, Madam President, that we Swedish democrats participate in the parliamentary work.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-557	Madam President, I would like SEK 1.7 million — so high was the income of the richest percentage in Danderyd. In Gothenburg, from which I come, the income of an ordinary worker was about $5,000 a month during the same period. Eighty-six thousand meals were handed out last year in Gothenburg only by St. John's Church. Of all the contributions from the Swedish City Missions, the food input amounts to almost 65 per cent. 42 million – that's how much a high-ranking Volvo manager earns a year. And 2.5 million is the sum of the annual tax relief that the boss is rewarded with by the 73-point gang with the Social Democrats at the head. 618 children currently live in acute homelessness only in my hometown. It is children who are forced to move around among temporary accommodations, who do not have their own bed and no place to call at home. At the same time as the richest percentage in Danderyd picks out almost SEK 2 million a month, we have food poverty and children who do not have a place to call at home. So we have those who live on abundance of capital and those who live on the margins. Something is very distorted in Sweden, and inequality and increased class divisions are spelled. The rise in inequality is mainly the result of political decisions, not least because of the abolition or reduction of taxes on wealth, inheritance, gifts, real estate and capital income, and the erosion of social security systems and six job tax deductions. All of this has contributed to increased class divisions. Yet almost all parties stand in the Chamber and claim to be well-being. There is a warm talk about better health care, better schooling and better care for the elderly. But I have to say that there is really a lot of talk and a little workshop. Four out of five municipalities will have to make cuts in their operations next year. These include reductions in school, care for the elderly and social services. Several welfare uprisings have started – I think everyone here knows about the Teacher March, the Preschool Rebellion and the Nursery Rebellion. The reason why these have started is that the employees in welfare have simply had enough. They no longer stand up for cuts and chronic understaffing. They have had enough of stress and poor working conditions and of having far too few colleagues. While welfare is in desperate need of resources, we have two listed school groups that together made profits of about half a billion SEK in the past year. Instead, our common tax money to go to school, more teaching services, wages and decent working conditions go to dividends to capitalists who slaughter the welfare and our common. It'll have to be enough neo-liberal experiments and privatized activities. That'll have to be enough of increased inequality and class divisions. We have tried this system for decades – for nearly 30 years. Sweden has tried reduced taxes and reduced health insurance, and we have tried the profit hunt in welfare. The only thing we can say after decades is that we have seen a decline in welfare, areas left behind and increased class divisions. If you have tried something so long without success, I think you should be humble and reconsider your strategy. Madam President, I would like The Left Party wants a different society. We have other priorities. That is why we have tabled a draft budget which is a plan for equality and green change. There we invest in general welfare and in reducing economic gaps and giving priority to the economically vulnerable. We are making investments that are central to a more equal society, and we are financing this primarily through increased capital taxes and by raising taxes for the rich. The government's budget, on the other hand, increases the gaps in society and leads to under-financing of welfare in a situation where the needs are high. The Social Democrats continue with a biased distribution and abolish the military tax so that the rich men will have their tax cuts. We note that Sweden has become a tax haven for the rich. Capital income has been concentrated on the wealthiest. Several billions that would be used to renovate housing in our most deprived areas or to improve social security have been removed for the benefit of the rich. That's why we need to reschedule the economy. With fair taxes, we can vigorously redistribute power and resources through the tax system in a fairer way. Through tax-funded welfare and security systems, we are also redistributing solidarity between the working and the unemployed, between the healthy and the sick and, not least, between those who live in abundance and those who live on the margins. Instead, the other parties are competing over who can blame the refugees most for the welfare crisis, the housing crisis or unemployment. We have several parties that use increased class divisions to set groups against each other. However, I think we should show people where the responsibility lies. The truth is that it is neither the fault of the economically vulnerable nor of the refugees that we have cuts or that the money is not enough for more nurses or teachers. Both the increase in inequality and the collapse of welfare are the result of a highly conscious policy. It is about political decisions by the Social Democrats and the Right, which are responsible for the increased class divides. That's where the responsibility lies. Those for whom we should take greater responsibility – the most economically vulnerable – are left behind. Instead, it is obviously the millionaires and billionaires – the super-pamps and the super-rich – that we should take social responsibility for. They will receive even more subsidies and tax cuts. This shows how clear it is that we have had a crude policy for the poor and fatter times for the rich. Madam President, I would like With fair taxes, we reduce class divisions, increase equality and ensure equal welfare. The economy should not be rigged for the richest. That is why we want to increase the taxation of capital and wealth while at the same time reducing the tax burden on low- and middle-income earners. We are also abolishing the tax subsidies of the rich and are using the money instead to strengthen welfare and social investment. It is clear that today we have seven right-wing parties and one left-wing party in Parliament. The Social Democrats, together with the Centre Party and Liberals, are giving us tax cuts for the rich and crisis in the municipalities. The same is true of the blue-brown: there are tax cuts for the rich and the crisis in the municipalities, where businesses are forced to cut back. Madam President, I would like It is time for welfare workers to get the status they deserve. It is time for nurses to have better working conditions, reasonable schedules and working hours that can be combined with family life and leisure time. The Left Party will continue to fight for an equal society. We will back up every nurse and every welfare worker, and we will never stop fighting for those left behind. There is our solidarity and our class struggle. We put the majority before the capital.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-580	Madam President, I would like If I were to put together a basic course in economics for politicians, I know exactly what would be the first step: Never forget that the money we are talking about belongs to someone else! The income and expenditure discussed here today belong to the taxpayer. They belong to those who work, run businesses and consume. This means, of course, that we must be careful about how the money is spent, but it also means that the reduction of taxes is an end in itself. It is a goal that people can keep as much as possible of the money they have earned themselves. However, unlike the government and its partners, we believe that tax cuts must benefit everyone, not just those with the highest income. It will be, if we decide, reduced taxes for everyone. The Christian Democrats are therefore proposing a reduction in taxes for broad groups of employees, for pensioners, for those who are sick and inactive, for families with children and for those who find it more difficult to enter the labour market. Tax cuts also increase the growth of the country. It creates more jobs and helps to increase inside, at the expense of exclusion. In addition, tax reductions that stimulate more hours worked mean that municipalities' finances are strengthened in the long term, and this is important at a time when municipalities are facing major challenges due to demographic changes that mean an increasing dependency ratio. Madam President, I would like While we think that tax cuts should benefit everyone, we also see the problem of the high marginal taxes. It must be more profitable, for example, to continue training as a specialist nurse or become a manager in care for the elderly. Therefore, marginal effects need to be reduced. We want fewer people to pay government taxes, and we want those who do that to pay less. But the trend has gone the other way for a long time, towards an increasing number of wage earners having paid government income tax. In 2014, 22 per cent of midwives paid government income tax. Four years later, in 2018, 26 per cent of midwives paid government income tax. The same development can be seen in more professions. In the police force, for example, every third police officer now pays the 20% extra tax. The consequence is reduced incentives to work for an extra hour, which many in healthcare and the police, for example, face. We have everything to gain from these professions working a little extra. The budget of the Christian Democrats and the Moderates that went through here in this House last year raised the limit for the payment of government taxes – what is usually called the lower layer line in bureaucratic terms. This work needs to continue. The Christian Democrats now propose that the limit be raised from SEK 42 400 to SEK 44 200. For the approximately 1.6 million employees involved, this means reduced tax by approximately SEK 4,300 per year or SEK 360 per month. Once again, we differ from the government and its co-operative parties, which target their major tax reductions only to the 300 000 with the highest incomes. Madam President, I would like Society consists not only of the state and capital; society also consists of the life of associations. In association, we learn to listen to others. We learn to compromise. We learn about the foundations of democracy, and we learn about humanity. A good role model in an association is often what makes young people get on the right track in life. For sports clubs there are currently favourable tax rules. This means that the association does not have to pay employers' fees for sportsmen, trainers or competition officials as long as the remuneration is less than half a price base amount. With this exception, the sports movement has a benefit that means a great deal to the business. However, the same tax rules must also apply to other non-profit organisations. Today, for example, the organisations in Swedish outdoor life are not covered, even though they, like sport, are a mass of people, and even though they, like sport, contribute to community and democracy. The Christian Democrats believe that all non-profit organisations should be included in the same regulations as sport and receive the same tax reduction, for which we allocate SEK 95 million. In our budget option, we also abolish advertising tax for non-profit associations. Last year, non-profit associations paid about SEK 60 million in advertising tax. In total, we therefore reduce the taxes for the association life by SEK 155 million. This creates the conditions for focusing resources on the core business that often comes to children, young people and the elderly. Madam President, I would like Since last summer, the tax reduction for donations to non-profit organizations has been reintroduced, thanks to the budgets of the Christian Democrats and the Moderates. The gift tax deduction, as it is often called, means that those who donate money to approved organisations working in the social field or with research receive a tax reduction of up to SEK 1,500 annually. Now it is high time to start developing the gift tax deduction, and then Norway can be a good example of what the development should look like. Firstly, the Christian Democrats propose that the reduction be increased. When the deduction was introduced in Norway it was rather modest, a few hundred, but since then the amount limit has gradually been increased. Today their amount limit is more than SEK 20 000. It is time to start the same journey as Norway has done. For next year we propose to double the reduction, and for this we allocate SEK 90 million. Secondly, we Christian Democrats also propose that the gift tax credit be developed to include more types of organisations. When it was introduced in Norway, only a few organisations were first included, but today more than 600 organisations work with everything from care to human rights, culture, environment, nature and animal welfare. Thirdly, we believe that the amount limit for each individual gift needs to be reduced. Today the individual must donate at least SEK 200 at each gift occasion to be eligible for a reduction, but at the same time we know that the average gift is about SEK 100. In order for more people to be given the opportunity and incentive to donate money, we want to lower that limit. Finally, Madam President, our tax policy is based on people's right to retain as much as possible of the money they have earned themselves, while effectively strengthening incentives to work and thus securing tax revenue for the common welfare. When we Christian Democrats lower taxes, we ensure that the tax cuts benefit everyone in society. We know that we humans need each other and become stronger together. That is why we also give priority to tax cuts that make it easier for more community in society.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-600	Madam President, I would like Today is a historic day. We phase out Anders Borg's penalty tax on pensioners, as we promised in 2014. I would like to thank the Center Party, the Green Party and the Liberals for their good cooperation with the budget proposal for 2020. It was in a complicated parliamentary situation that we parties together chose cooperation and compromise to tackle together the problems of society. This budget of over 1 000 billion is to be financed. The strength we have created through falling public debt and financial order may be needed in a forthcoming slowdown. The Social Democrats are the Security Party that protects order and order in public finances, and we have always done so. That is how we have achieved stability in our country. We are well equipped for the future compared to many other EU countries. According to the Economic Information Society, the Swedish national debt is only half the average debt in the euro area countries and the 28 EU Member States. Financing government expenditure is mainly through taxes on labour, capital and VAT. Often individual taxes and tax rates are severely criticised for being wrong, harmful or unfair in some respect. The list of courtesies to the Ministry of Finance and the members of the Tax Committee is always long. But we in the Tax Committee are the Department of Welfare. By firmly asserting the need for different taxes on broad tax bases, we ensure health care, education and care in our country. Today's tax system is 25 years old. We were not in the EU in 1990-1991 when the tax system came into place. Since then, the world has become much more globalised. For example, the old mail order trade is a completely different world compared to the modern, more extensive online trade. The EU comes up with various directives in the field of taxation that we have to deal with. The Swedish Minister for Finance must always be extremely active in EU negotiations to create alliances that benefit Sweden's economy. Even in global bodies such as the OECD, much Swedish activity is required. We Social Democrats welcome the work of the OECD and the EU to combat, among other things, tax evasion and tax evasion. Why do I bring this up in the tax round? Because the conditions for the tax system have changed over the 25 years. We have the Internet, we have a completely different globalisation and we have over 600 exemptions in the tax system, so we need to review the tax system in the future. Madam President, I would like As the economy grows, a budget space is created. That space is up to us politicians to decide. If you choose to lower taxes, there will be less left to the welfare. You never get away from that. Tax policy should also ensure stable tax revenues and create the conditions for sustainable growth and high employment. The proposed tax changes as a whole in a budget should always contribute to increased employment, an increased number of hours worked and to the achievement of climate and environmental objectives, while ensuring the long-term financing of welfare. The tax changes in the 2020 budget include the abolition of the upper layer of government income tax. That is not something we have been advocating, but negotiations must give and take.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-611	Mr President, I would like to We have thus phased out Anders Borg's penalty tax on pensioners, as we promised in 2014. Unfortunately, however, the Moderates, together with the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats, found a new one through their 2019 budget. Mr President, I would like to Other innovations in the budget bill in relation to taxes are the introduction of requirements for electronic payment in ROT and RUT work to counteract incorrect payments. A tax reduction for residents in certain geographical areas is introduced. It gives more money on the bank card for people living in rural and sparsely populated areas. Funds for further tax cuts on jobs and entrepreneurship under the green tax shift are set aside for 2021. An economic employee concept is introduced in order to create competition neutrality in our country. We are also introducing a reinforced deduction for research and development, and an initial deduction will be introduced. The ceiling for the deferral of the sale of dwellings should also be increased. Mr President, I would like to In recent years, the security situation in our country has deteriorated. The government will therefore strengthen military defence over time. The addition will be financed, inter alia, by higher taxes on the financial sector. It is high time that the banks played their part. Other taxes that will be introduced are taxes on waste incineration and plastic carrier bags. As some speaker mentioned earlier, the tax on fuels will actually be reduced by removing the so-called over-indexation. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report on the state budget for 2020.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-615	Mr President, I would like to I know Jörgen Hellman as a sensible and pragmatic leader of the work of the Committee on Taxation. It seems, however, that Jörgen Hellman has some problems with his partner parties and party partners. The budget does not seem as pragmatic and results-oriented as Jörgen Hellman sounds. Taxes have no purpose of their own, but somehow have their meaning in what they do with revenue, what they have or, for that matter, what problems they create for jobs, growth or individuals, just as Jörgen Hellman mentions. But just because they have no purpose of their own doesn't mean they're unimportant. On the contrary, it is one of the things the state does that affects most of all how people have it, what conditions companies have and what conditions we as a society have together. For this reason, perhaps a tax policy discussion should not delve into all the technical details but rather into the consequences for the development of society. I think we have a broad consensus on that. My question therefore concerns growth in Sweden. We can have high wages for construction workers, industrial workers and broad employee groups because our economy is strong and growing. Now our economy is not growing anymore. On the contrary, it stands completely still and is expected to be the worst in the whole of the European Union next year. No other country in the EU is expected to have lower growth than Sweden. This will be seen in the financing of welfare and in wage and salary envelopes.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-620	Mr President, I would like to It is always interesting to discuss taxes with Niklas Wykman. He's well-read in the tax field. I listened with interest to his speech when he used 7 minutes and 50 seconds to discuss general policy. Then he finished with 2 minutes about taxes. Therefore, it feels good to use the replica time for taxes. A large common sector creates security among the inhabitants so that they dare. It is a factor that should not be underestimated when the economic cycle folds. Having a security as a resident is one of our basic foundations. In terms of examples of things in our budget that will create growth in the future, we have, among other things, the research and development deduction. I have an idea of Niklas Wykman's rhetoric. It wasn't much about taxes. When you read your budget motion, it feels as if the renewal of the Moderates is only about one thing, namely continued tax cuts. The previous budget was EUR 26 billion, and in the previous one it was EUR 32 billion. The era of tax cuts continues. If I interpret your budget bill correctly, you raise VAT on food to afford to lower the price of petrol. Consider how Niklas Wykman has thought about these tax changes.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-625	Mr President, I would like to Given the situation Sweden is in with very high cost pressures on public activities and with major problems in society that need to be met with policy measures, it is a little worrying that next year our growth is expected to be the lowest across the European Union. It makes the muscles of politics much weaker. This means that different expenditures and important priorities need to be set much harder against each other than otherwise. When we do not have any growth in the economy, Jörgen Hellman, every crown you want to use in health care must be taken from school or vice versa. This is the major problem of growthless policy. There will be fewer resources to allocate, and the contradictions between the various interests of concern in society will increase. Therefore, a growth policy is also a policy of greater cohesion and more harmony in society. Then everyone can get more without anyone else having to get worse. Therefore, Jörgen Hellman, it is worrying when the answer to the question of what is going to boost growth is slightly more small deduction somewhere. It's probably from the Center Party's wish list. Different types of small improvements in the tax system need not be wrong. However, the problem with many of these small measures is that they are very difficult for companies to use, have unclear effects and occasionally distort competition between companies rather than increase the joint competitiveness of the business sector vis-à-vis other countries. It does not necessarily mean that it is always wrong to introduce them, but it is risky to rely as politicians on these different small changes or discounts as a whole to boost the economy. It is true that in our budget we have a shift from to some extent taxation on labour to slightly increased taxation on consumption. It should be said that it is in line with all the recommendations that each international and national institution gives to tax policy. This is a good way to increase labour force participation, reduce unemployment in the long term and boost economic growth. It is then better to tax what produces lower and tax what is consumed a little higher. That will be about 65 SEK per person.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-629	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the line of borderline in Swedish politics is between the Moderates who believe that tax relief provides growth and those of us who want to create growth through a common sector, which can, for example, educate the labour force, and a labour market policy worthy of the name. This is how and through a skilled workforce we can create growth. The other examples call Niklas Wykman small-scale activities, but they are still in the budget. This includes the initial deduction, which will of course encourage a group to enter the labour market. A large common sector that trains the workforce will, as I said, make Sweden well equipped for the next improved economic recovery.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-632	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking Jörgen Hellman for his speech. I am a little worried, however, when he thanks the Liberals and highlights their policy. In their draft budget, the Social Democrats have prioritised historical tax cuts for the rich. They do so when municipalities and welfare are in extreme distress. The economic situation of Sweden's municipalities is becoming increasingly difficult. The need for welfare is increasing, and demands for higher quality are reinforced. This equation is difficult to solve. Around the country we therefore see municipal budgets that contain major cuts in welfare, often hidden behind words such as efficiency efficiency. This means that large savings are made by cutting the workforce while at the same time saying that the quality should remain unchanged. Fewer people are supposed to do the same job. This would of course have been possible if man were a machine, but the welfare workers are not machines, Jörgen. My question to the Social Democrats is therefore: how much more effective can welfare workers be, in the opinion of the Social Democrats?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-636	Mr President, I would like to Before I answer the question, I think we need to figure something out. I think many of the proposals put forward by the Left Party are good. We have had constructive budgetary work with you for several years. But the alternative to the January agreement is no more of the policy of the Left Party. The three right-wing conservative parties are the option that remains as government leaders. Hence the January agreement. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson was clear that the January agreement applies. Her priority is more money for the common sector in the future. Her priorities are also my priorities. I share her point of view. How much more effective can you be in the public sector? There is not much opportunity for that, because it is often hands and feet that are needed in the care. Training twice as many students and halving the number of teachers is not easy; it is the number of people that is important. As I said, I believe that our Minister for Finance's announcement that we are going to look at future financing of that sector will be a reality.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-640	Mr President, I would like to I must say that this was not really an answer to the question. You are responsible for the policies that will be implemented and for this budget, Jörgen Hellman. You really thanked me for that budget, and you thanked the cooperation parties. Then I would like to thank you for the cooperation we had last parliamentary term. It also shows that the only time the Social Democrats can be a little left is when there is a left-wing party in the room. The fact remains: we have historical sickness rates among employees in the welfare sector, and work-related ill-health is rising. Working with demands to be ever more effective takes its price out in the form of worn-out bodies and increased stress. This is about welfare workers who start and end their days with painkillers. They are the ones who pay the price for this cooperation and the government's tax cuts for the rich. The abolition of defence taxes is a good example – these EUR 6 billion correspond to 15 000 colleagues for all nurses in the country. Underpaid women wear themselves out in welfare while high-paid well-off men should receive their tax reductions. That is exactly the policy you pursue, Jörgen. All you have to do is regret it.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-642	Mr President, I would like to The parliamentary situation means that compromises must be made in this forum. Let me give you another example. We Social Democrats thought we should have a balance objective in the state, but we are negotiating with the other parties. The investigation proposed a surplus target, which was then decided upon. If we had not had it without a balance target, we would have had a slightly larger sum for the common sector. But the parliamentary majority looks like we have to negotiate. The alternative is not to interact with the Left Party in order to create a majority in this House, because there is little voter base for us. I share in many respects the analysis by the Left Party of the shortcomings in the public sector. But I am confident with Magdalena's announcement that she will continue to look at how the economy is developing in the municipalities and regions.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-644	Mr President, I would like to Everyone is going along, was the Social Democrats' motto in the election movement in 2006. The Swedish Parliament's investigation service, RUT, has now carried out a breakdown analysis of the budget proposals and the budget movements. The percentage change in the average economic standard of the different income groups in society has been looked at. For the tenth of the population with the lowest income, the government's budget bill represents an improvement of the economic standard by 0.4 per cent. For the tenth with the highest income, the government's budget bill represents an improvement of the economic standard by 1 per cent. In short, those with the highest income will receive more than twice as much economic improvement next year compared to those with the lowest income. This is about tens of thousands of dollars a month for those with the highest incomes. We know why the Social Democrats are pursuing this policy. This is necessary in order, among other things, to keep the Christian Democrats away from government power. However, the same analysis from the RUT shows that the effects of our budgetary motion are exactly the opposite of the effects of the Social Democratic Government's budget bill. We lower taxes for everyone: for the nurse, for the industrial worker, for the doctor and – just like the government – actually also for the bank manager. However, compared to today, those with the lowest income would have twice as high a percentage improvement as those with the highest income. My questions to the Social Democrats are: Is it the government budget or our budget that best holds society together? Is it the Christian Democrats' tax policy or the government's tax policy that best meets your old motto?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-647	Mr President, I would like to Everyone's coming – that's a good motto. The bourgeois government and you Christian Democrats prioritised a tax cut of 140 billion, and the last were with borrowed money. Then you added 20 billion to tax cuts. Now you're proposing 23 billion in tax relief. Your profile is tax relief. All social problems that exist can be solved with tax relief. Keeping you out of the government wasn't the primary goal for us. The primary objective is that the policy of the Swedish Democrats should not become entrenched in a government policy. As regards the removal of the defence tax, which is mentioned in the debate, you have been positive in the past. We haven't been. But in this parliamentary situation, you have to take and give. We did not like that question, but we have to accept compromises. We thought that the compromise was better. In return, the municipalities received a little more money. Yeah, that's right. Everyone's going to go with them. That's a good idea.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-652	Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats have used to talk about a society where no one is held back or left behind. I think that's a good idea. It is absolutely right that we should give priority to tax cuts and stand for them. But we stand for tax cuts for everyone in our society, tax cuts that mean that no one is left behind, as I said in my main speech. I would like to return to my previous question. If I may interpret the previous Social Democratic approach, it is the kind of tax cuts that hold society together and make it better for everyone to get what they really want. The question I asked was not answered. Is it the Christian Democrats' tax policy or the government's tax policy that best lives up to the motto that everyone should join, as the Social Democrats have at least had in the past?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-655	Mr President, I would like to If there is to be no difference between tax policy groups, Hampus Hagman, why did you impose the penalty tax on pensioners when you were in government? A S-government supported by parties in this House will have a better distribution profile than a government with the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-657	Mr President, I would like to Each generation can rightly say that we are living in a time of great change. What I experience during my time is a technological shift that lacks historical counterpart and that may fundamentally change society and change the basic conditions for entrepreneurship. Of course, that is always the case when you are in the middle of the change. I grew up in a middle country where the tractor for my parent generation came to revolutionize the family farm of the time. Who needed a horse and a farm employee after they got a tractor? My grandparents lived at a time marked by a strong increase in the use of electricity, telephony, internal combustion engines and the manufacture and use of steel. Looking forward to today's young people, the increasingly accelerating digitalisation and, not least, artificial intelligence, AI, stands for the next revolution. Today, we have companies that intend to connect our brains with computers with implants. Then it is difficult to see the consequences. Mr President, I would like to As society changes faster and faster, we do well to raise our eyes a little and try to see a little longer than just the tasks of the week or the month. They're important too. Of course, we should not turn a blind eye to the fact that there are urgent and central tasks that need to be dealt with. We know we can do it. We've done it before. But we too often get caught up in it and forget that we must also be able to keep our eyes fixed here and now and at the same time be able to look forward. If we are in a system which does not work in certain areas and which may not have done so in 70 years, it is time to start thinking new. A rapidly changing world increases demands on our ability to adapt. We must be able to implement reforms that create new jobs, because many of the old traditional jobs are disappearing. It is about jobs that strengthen welfare in other ways than the usual. In Sweden, for example, a tiny part of all welfare services is created by non-profit organisations. If we look at the rest of Europe and the world we see completely different conditions. Is our tax rules a reason for that? That's what the Center Party wants to investigate ahead. We believe that we need to review it in order to cope with the welfare of the future, to organise d in a different way to today. We simply need to increase our competitiveness not only in industry and trade but in all sectors. Our ability to be at the forefront of development is crucial. Mr President, I would like to For many years, a steadily stronger boom has put a shadow over a need for reform that has always existed. The expression not to see the forest for all trees has rarely suited better. We have a housing market that doesn't work. We have an inefficient employment service that has long been in dire need of reform. We have alienation areas where not everyone is included. We have a tax system that can no longer be patched up and prepared very much. We have a tax system that we need to reform widely. However, pending much-needed tax reform, this budget is taking important steps forward in a number of areas. Mr President, I would like to The key to our economy and prosperity are our businesses. They are the key to welcoming new Swedes and the key to economic change. The most important thing is small businesses, those that create four out of five new jobs. Creating conditions for small businesses to invest and grow is one of the most important tasks of the policy. More tax kronas will then enter municipalities and regions that can go to our common well-being. I dare to say that this is the prerequisite for municipalities to be able to hire more preschool teachers, teachers and nurses. This is the prerequisite for the Police Authority to be able to hire more and better paid police officers and for hospitals to be able to hire more and better paid nurses and doctors. In this budget, taxes are reduced by around SEK 13 billion. Reduced tax for more people gives more money left in the wallet. It benefits the economy and growth. But we also make it cheaper to hire. A start-up deduction makes it cheaper for companies to hire new entrants to the labour market. At the same time, start-up jobs are being introduced to get new arrivals into work, and efforts are being made for Swedish education earlier in the asylum process. Mr President, I would like to Many rural people today, I would say, pay too much tax compared to people in other parts of Sweden. Why is that? I say so, given that they often have a worse public service. That is why next year's budget cuts tax on 850 000 people in rural and rural areas. There are broadband investments, investments in improved government services, and we say an explicit stop for more government transfers to large cities. It will help to strengthen rural conditions. The overall contribution to municipalities and regions will be increased by around 5 billion per year in the next budgetary period. This means that we will continue the efforts of previous budgets. We are improving for pensioners by reducing the so-called tax on pensioners, i.e. reducing the tax gap between work and pensions. The effects of the so-called healthcare VAT are mitigated by the fact that compensation of 210 million per year is paid to private sector companies that are disadvantaged by the new interpretation of the Tax Agency. It is an unnecessary procedure, it must be admitted, to which we must find a long-term solution. But in the meantime, at least equal conditions should prevail for public and private driven welfare. Mr President, I would like to Liberal reform has begun, but it must continue. The need for a comprehensive tax reform remains. We need to change the tax base so that more tax collection comes not only from jobs and entrepreneurship, as it is almost today, but also from other less harmful tax bases. Years of discussions in the public debate on the need for structural reforms have now begun. Our ambition is for it to continue, for a prosperous and growing Sweden. I support the committee's proposal.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-675	Mr President, I would like to There is a heated climate of debate not only in Sweden but around the world. I am one of those who do not think you should contribute to such a thing. There is talk of Sweden being mismanaged and mismanaged. It is easy to feel some sympathy for that kind of expression. But most of all, it feels like Sweden is unspoiled. No one really takes responsibility for where the ship is going. Many are surprised that the Center Party chooses to participate in this instead of supporting a policy that more could take hold of the very serious problems that Sweden has. When you listen to and take part in the political debate here, it is a bit like the involuntary agreement all the time. There are Italian mafia structures on our streets. But in political activity it's more like a confused French relationship drama where no one really wants to be with anyone. You don't know why things have turned out the way they have. The viewer even loses interest in the whole thing. I would therefore like to discuss a key issue for the Center Party, namely rural conditions. Now the Center Party is involved in budget cooperation not only with the Social Democrats but also with the Green Party. It is perhaps the strongest force we have ever had for urbanization in Sweden. All people should live in big cities and in a very urban and liberal way. Sweden looks different. We see that taxation on the use of the car has become so high that it really makes it difficult to live outside the big cities. It's a matter of both working and running a business and so on. I wonder if Helena Vilhelmsson wouldn't be more eager to put up with our tax cut of about 1 crown liter.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-680	Mr President, I would like to We are in a situation where we have a budget for this year. There was a temporary pause in one of the indexations of the price of fuel. In May we stood here, and you suggested that the temporary stop be continued. The Moderates' budget now proposes a reduction of 1 krona. I fully agree that the car is crucial for rural areas, for businesses and for people living in the country. But this situation where proposals and decisions come, are withdrawn and changed, without a common understanding, is exactly what the country's car drivers and entrepreneurs do not need. Companies need a long-term perspective, predictability and consensus. It should be said, however, that the lower tax on the current budget is, of course, good; there is no doubt about that. That is why the Center Party has worked hard to keep it in the forthcoming budget bill. It is an investment that involves a cost in the budget of SEK 900 million. We think that is a good thing, and I hope the Moderates will agree with that.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-683	Mr President, I would like to It is my view that politics must be centred on solving the acute and major problems of society. It is well known what major and urgent problems Sweden has: growth that is expected to be the worst in the EU next year and open crime in our streets that is expressed that one would rather not think of, with executions on the open street and so on. Another major and fundamental problem for Sweden is the separation that takes place between the city and the countryside, where many people outside our cities feel less and less confident that they are part of the community that Sweden has historically been. Much of the best that has happened in Sweden has its start and its origin far outside our big cities when it comes to entrepreneurship, innovation and other things that have made Sweden good. Now we see that the confidence for Sweden has if not passed out so at least severely dampened. When Helena Vilhelmsson says that a stable tax increase for motorists is better than an uncertain tax reduction, I do not know if so many agree. Do you really want to have an increase in the cost of using the car with 100% certainty rather than a 50% reduction in costs? Although the theory of probability is not everyone's great favourite, I firmly believe that one chooses to have it better in some probability than to have it worse with 100 percent probability. I am not entirely sure that Helena Vilhelmsson brings rural people along on this issue. I understand that, here and now, we will not put an end to the misery of the January agreement, but I sincerely hope that the Center Party will not forget the countryside in further negotiations. Our hand is extended to strengthen and improve the ability to operate, live and work outside our big cities, including through reduced taxes on fuel.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-689	Mr President, I would like to I think Mr Wykman hears what he chooses to hear. I have never said that rural people and rural entrepreneurs would rather see a steady increase in fuel prices and taxes than a reduction. What I said was that it is not – whether housing that wants to drive children to school or to leisure activities or companies that operate in rural areas – that it is valiant that proposals and decisions are uprooted and not long-term. The rural entrepreneur and the rural farmer need a long-term view and a common understanding of the fuel price today and what it will look like in five years' time. Otherwise, you don't dare invest. Speaking of rural areas, I have a question and a question. Have the Moderates calculated what the effects of a 1-krona reduction actually mean when it comes to urban versus rural? I guess the one who benefits from this proposal is the one who lives in the city. It gets relatively much more out of a tax cut of 1 krona than the one living in the country gets. You can put this in relation to our rural deduction, which the Moderates are against. This means a tax reduction of about SEK 1,600. Do the Moderates mean that a 1 - crown tax cut in relative terms benefits those living in rural areas as much as those living in urban areas?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-693	Mr President, I would like to The boom has now come to an end. Unfortunately, the outlook for growth and employment is downwards. Companies have become more cautious and dare not have an optimistic outlook on the world situation. Investment is slowing down, and we will have to expect higher unemployment in the future. However, Sweden is well equipped with a low public debt, which makes the gunpowder dry if there is a possible economic recession. But gunpowder is only useful if it is well-targeted towards structurally good reforms that increase the willingness to consume, give people more money in their wallets and get more to work. In view of Sweden's current problems with record-long care queues, shootings and shortcomings in care for the elderly, you need to pay particular attention to where you put the reform money. In this situation, the January parties are making progress with a reduction in employers' contributions for young people under the age of 18, a reduction in employers' contributions for newcomers, a reduction in employers' contributions for the long-term unemployed, a reduction in employers' contributions for large companies employing research and development personnel and a reduction in employers' contributions for individual firms. These reforms have two things in common: they have been condemned by research as inefficient efforts, and they are driven hard by the Center Party. The Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, Riksrevisionen, Konjunkturinstitutet and university-based researchers have shown little or no employment effects. The Alliance tried similar ideas and learned lessons from it. These are reforms that cost far more than they taste. There will be income for businesses while there is no wide tax relief for ordinary people. My question to the Center Party is: why is almost all the gunfire burned off on this?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-698	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hampus Hagman, for the question! I may be partly guilty of the answer. Or rather, I suspect that the answer is to find a little bit in KD's own policy, because many of the reforms that Hampus Hagman has just mentioned are old alliance policies. I can only say that in the contacts that we and I have had with small businesses, the answers are generally valid: easy employment is good for Sweden's economy. It is good for the individual's wallet to go from unemployment to work. It is good to increase consumption, and it is good for the municipality's tax crowns. Time will tell if these reforms have an effect. However, as I said before, we have agreed on quite a few of these reforms.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-701	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree that reduced taxes are good. We have both devoted a considerable part of our speaking time up in the speaker's seat to talking about this: reduced tax is good. Reduced income taxes are good. Increased cut-off points for government income tax are good. Reducing corporate taxes, which is now being done in a few steps, is a good thing. But why do you go so hard with this kind of point-of-the-stakes, if you can call them that, as everyone has in common, they are condemned as inefficient bets? After all, it is not measures that give jobs to a great extent. There are other measures that are better, such as reduced income taxes and reduced corporate taxes. Hence my question: why are these specific efforts so hard when they do not have any effects?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-703	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with Mr Hagman that as few targeted efforts as possible are actually good. It is good for management, it is good for the economy and it is good for growth to spend as little work as possible on getting people into work and being able to produce. But sometimes the situation is such that we simply have to use these targeted means, and we have both done so in a government position. However, I would prefer to see general measures taken. Then there remains the discussion as to whether they are effective or not. In addition to my previous reply to the line, I can only add the personal gain for people of going from unemployment to work. Many of the reforms mentioned by the honourable Member are about relief for companies to employ, and the personal gain of going from exclusion to inside a job is not to be forgotten. Not least this can be an effect, and perhaps the most important effect of these reforms. People feel good having a job to go to.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-706	Mr President, I would like to As the one who has the honour of closing this debate, I would like to thank you for a good tax debate. The tax area is an area which is slightly different from other policies. We cannot tax taxes, so to speak, but we must go into other people's policies in order to find the policies we are pursuing. We are taxing work, for example, and then it is labour market or entrepreneurial policy. We are taxing goods, and then it is also labour market or entrepreneurial policy. It can be rural policy, it can be trade growth policy and it can be climate policy. But it is an area that is distinguished because it is always in other policy areas. But it is also the case, Mr President, that the tax area is a prerequisite for all other policies. If we do not have a good tax policy that favours entrepreneurship, which benefits people to work more and increases prosperity, then we have nothing to distribute in our welfare system. Without a good tax policy, there is no welfare. Without a good tax policy, there are no policemen, nurses or teachers. In fact, there is nothing for this congregation to do. Sweden needs a better tax policy. It is clear that we need more uniform VAT. It is unreasonable that there are different VAT rates on bottled water and water in the tap. We need a much more aggressive climate policy, and a large part of it is taxation of things that are bad for the climate. We need to lower the tax on snus so that more people start snusting instead of taking a smoke– it's much more dangerous. We also need to reduce taxes on labour and entrepreneurship so that more people go to work instead of having to go on subsidies and end up in the periphery, far outside the community, and perhaps get involved in crime. Taxes, Mr President, are in charge. It is with taxes that we may be able to manage the economy and society most effectively. However, the main objective of taxation must never be to favour different special interests or to distort the functioning of the market in different ways. We are going to levy taxes in a way that affects as little as possible people's free choice but which ensures, in the most effective way possible, the financing of the welfare commitments that we want. Mr President, I would like to The major conflict in Swedish fiscal policy and Swedish economic policy is that between the left and the right. The Left believes that tax cuts are costs, while the Right understands that when you lower a tax, it means that you take less money from people who have done the right thing, who have worked, who have made an effort to do business and who have made sure that they create value. Those of us who are right in economic policy understand that reduced taxes lead to more people working and that we have increased prosperity that we can distribute in the form of police officers, nurses, doctors and so on. I was quite dismayed when I listened to the debate and heard the Left Party's Tony Haddou say in the pulpit that capitalists slaughter welfare. It is exactly the opposite, Mr President. Had it not been for capitalists – people who own, who invest, who want their money to increase in value, who make sure to drive growth and who make sure to create jobs – we would not have any welfare whatsoever in this country. It is because people have their own motivations that we can have any welfare at all. Tony Haddou also said that we had been testing this with capitalism for three decades and that it had gone badly. That is a little strange, Mr President. As far as I know, we have tested capitalism and market economy for much longer than three decades, and what we have seen is an increase in prosperity that mankind has probably never seen in history – where people have been lifted out of poverty, where businesses have flourished, where innovations have given us better health care and where, with innovations driven by capitalists and market economies, we have seen solutions to the climate problems of the future, to name but a few. We have also, contrary to what it sounded from the Left Party, tested the opposite quite many times and in quite a few places in the world and seen how it has led to the very opposite. We have seen less prosperity in which socialism has taken root. We have seen how entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs have been broken down, how wealth has been reduced and how welfare has been depleted when we have tested socialism. That is the major conflict in Swedish tax policy. I believe, Mr President, that this is reflected in the debate we are having here today. It is, of course, through reduced taxes on jobs and on education that we can ensure that more people are lifted out of poverty also in Sweden. For example, if we look at our vulnerable suburbs, we see that it is when people get a little more money to invest in entrepreneurship or entrepreneurship that people are also lifted out of poverty, can hire more and can make sure to lift suburbs out of the poverty they are now in. It is also then that resources are created for the judiciary so that we can deal with the crime and insecurity that often exist in the same places. Mr President, I would like to I'll tell you something about the defense tax. There seem to be quite a few people who are angry with the Liberals. Unfortunately, there are a lot of people who seem to believe that the Center Party has also pushed forward the abolition of the military tax. I can reassure the House that you only have to be angry with the Liberals – not because the Center Party has been so much against it, but we have pushed through the abolition of the military tax. I have to say that's right. As has been said earlier in the debate, care should be taken with other people's money. Of course, whoever has worked and worked and worked, who has done the right thing, should not take money from unnecessarily. The Member of the Swedish Democrats, Mr Westroth, stood here earlier and said that tax money should not be wasted. When you do that, he said, it's a theft from the people. I would like to say to the Westroth of the Swedish Democrats and to all those who are watching this debate, Mr President, that any unnecessary tax charge is a theft from the people. We know that the abolition of the military tax – precisely because people will work more, precisely because people will get more money over investing – will be self-financing. Revenues to the state will increase. It is clear that it must be a theft from the people if we know that a tax leads to a loss of prosperity and prosperity and, furthermore, knows that its abolition leads to more money left in the wallet and that the economy is growing. It's a theft from the people to keep the defense tax. Mr President, I would like to One last point I would like to highlight in my speech is the R & D deduction, a deduction for companies that want to invest in increased innovation and more research, which the Liberals have pushed through in this budgetary negotiation. It is clear that Sweden's economy is driven forward by people researching, innovating and finding new ways to create new values in the economy, and for this to go around you must also be able to make money from it. This is how the Swedish economy has been built historically, and this is how the Swedish economy will continue to be built. With those words, I would like to support the committee's proposal. It is therefore the same proposal that the two government parties will rather reluctantly vote through. I am proud of the tax side of that proposal. I wish the Social Democrats and the Green Party could be a little more proud, but reluctantly perhaps they will also vote with us on this tax proposal.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-723	Mr President, I would like to It is almost that Joar Forssell seems to be a little obsessed with the Left Party when he repeatedly refers to the Left Party and our economic policy. He does something wrong, but he had one right, and that was when he said I said that capitalists slaughter welfare. Yes, I think it is perverse and disgusting when our common tax money goes to half a billion share dividends. It's disgusting. It's money that's common to us. I cannot understand the Liberals leaving walkover in this regard and allowing private groups that are tax-funded to allow the money to go to dividends. It's disgusting. As far as tax policy is concerned, we know that inequality is growing in Sweden. Sweden is the OECD country where economic inequality has increased most since the mid-80s. We are one of the few countries that have neither inheritance, gift and property taxes nor property taxes linked to the value of taxation. If we continue at the same rate, the distribution of income in 20 years' time will be more unequal than in the United States. Is it a society with such gaps that Joar Forssell wants in Sweden? Going from being the world's most equal country to becoming the most unequal country is what Joar Forssell wants?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-727	Mr President, I would like to It doesn't matter to me if people get rich. What's hard for me is if people are poor. What we know is that people have been lifted out of poverty through capitalism and a market economy, and that people's own drive must drive the economy forward and that innovation and research must pay off. Mr President, I would like to The Left Party is obsessed with hitting people who make money, work, do their own thing, invest their money and drive innovation and research. I struggle to lift people out of poverty. Then we must ensure that taxes are reduced so that more people invest and create jobs, so that it is more profitable to move from subsidies to jobs and so that people with low incomes can also save money, invest and invest in driving a business or entrepreneurship on the basis of their innovative idea. Mr President, I would like to If you want to do something about inequality, it is not even the defense tax that is concerned. Inequality in Sweden has increased mainly because of property income and not because of income from wages for labour. The Left Party's opposition to the abolition of the military tax is not really because it would lead to more inequality, but it is symbolic policy because it does not think that people should be able to get rich. I think that people should be able to get rich, I am proud that we have abolished the military tax and I am also proud of our R & D deduction, which will lead to more innovations and more growth that will strengthen both the quality of welfare and its financing. It is serious economic policy and not socialism, as we have tried before.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-730	Mr President, I would like to There was a very ideological debate with Joar Forssell and also some robber stories. I will not have time to respond to everyone but can say that we are actually raising capital taxes in our budget. I think you should watch that, Joar Forssell. The distribution analysis looks much better than you, for you are giving money to the rich men in the big cities and in the crane municipalities and continuing with private gains in welfare. It's about dividends of our common tax money. Joar Forssell likes the companies very much, and this is also about the need to strengthen labour law in Sweden. We want more power for the employees. Joar Forssell is very much into the military tax, and what is happening now is that cuts are going on around the country in school, care for the elderly and social services and so on. Joar Forssell has heard me talk a lot about this during the day. These are things that could be paid for by the military tax. I think the 6 billion would be needed better in health care and care for the elderly, but instead, Joar Forssell, they go to some of Sweden's richest people. For example, a few people will receive 2 million more next year through the tax reduction. How does it create jobs for the Volvo manager to get 2.5 million extra in his pocket next year when he already withdraws 42 million? It feels a little like that. In fact, I think, Joar Forssell, that nurses deserve a raise or more colleagues and that people have access to the welfare to which they are entitled. Unlike you, I think it's more important that we raise taxes on capital income and invest in welfare. We do so in our budget. It is a budget for equality that strengthens workers' rights and in which we have more democracy in the workplace. We are taking a stand, as I said in my speech, for greater equality throughout the country. What you're offering is cutbacks and women-dominated professions taking the fall.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-735	Mr President, I would like to My problem is not that I don't think the Left Party is taking a stand. My problem is what position the Left Party takes. I've been asked how it creates jobs to lower taxes for people who work.
i-8adf4bd3269562a2-0	I didn't ask you that. ) Yeah, you asked me that. It is not surprising, because no matter what income you have means a tax reduction that you get more money left to invest either in new ideas that become companies that hire people or in something that you consume, and someone is actually going to make what is consumed, which means that jobs are created in that line. Mr President, I would like to The dividing line between the economic policies of the Left Party and the Liberals is not about how you look at whether there should be high and decent wages in welfare or not, but about how we want to be able to finance it in the long term and seriously. If you want to be able to finance welfare in the long term and seriously, you need a great deal of prosperity. Right now we see that there is a need for major efforts across the country on welfare – on the judiciary and on municipalities and regions. Then you also need to lower the tax to create jobs and entrepreneurship and ensure that prosperity grows so that you can distribute it. Mr President, I would like to The left-wing Tony Haddou claims I'm pulling ass stories. Then I think that I can draw some stories from Tony Haddou : Chávez, Castro, Marx, Mao and, if you in the Left Party get your way, Tony Haddous's economic policy – it's ass stories!
i-78f02675b5b2464b-740	Mr President, I would like to Today we are also debating the autumn change budget for 2019. This year's edition is relatively small with an addition of SEK 3.9 billion. Of these nearly 4 billion, the Swedish Democrats reject 1 billion. There is therefore little to be said about in the substance of this debate. However, we note that the Swedish Democrats are the only party that has submitted a follow-up motion on the government's bill. I intend to dwell today on a perspective on the Swedish welfare debate that addresses our basic security needs. I guess many people in here know about Maslows's need steps, which is an explanation model in psychology for how people prioritise their needs. The first of the five needs is man's physiological need, representing, for example, hunger, thirst, and sleep. SVT reported on Monday that every other municipality will save on the most vulnerable groups in society. It is about cuts in LSS and cuts in daily activities for mentally disabled people. You cut down on student health, preschool, care for the elderly and so on. When the municipal manager of one of the municipalities in question is asked how they got into this situation, the answer is unsurprising: We have been generous and received many new arrivals. The municipal manager thus puts a generous welfare in direct contrast to a generous reception of new arrivals – what the Swedish Democrats have done from day one. What political priorities does the government make at this time? Just open the budget bill and read. They subsidise electric bicycles, set free years, and abolish the military tax. The amending budget increases international aid almost as much as it increases funding for the judiciary. A previous initiative has developed a service called Money from Sweden with Arabic version in order to facilitate monetary transactions from Sweden to other countries. There is much to be said about this. But I let the example speak for itself. Nevertheless, these are political priorities in a country where there is a lack of SEK 30 billion for prosperity. This is what the citizens of a country that has one of the highest tax burdens in the world pay taxes for, and it is at a time when those who have built up this country do not even get the help they need anymore. Just look at what's going on at our retirement homes! Our older ones are cold, lonely and hungry. There are pensioners picking cans. It's the red-green reality. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to comment on the second step on Maslows's need steps, namely the need for security. It is about being protected from physical violence, psychological violence and crime. It is essential to reduce the incidence of this, for the sake of individuals, but also for the long-term and gradual improvement of living standards and growth in communities in each country. In this context, I would like to mention just a few examples of what has happened in my hometown of Gothenburg in recent months. Two young men were stabbed on the tram on Hisingen. They were stabbed in Nordstan and died. Man, 18 years old, was stabbed on Backaplan and died. Teenagers had their ear cut off during robbery in Landala. In that case, it was not enough just to rob, undress, and beat the boy, but the gang had to cut off the boy's ear. Who does such a thing? This is just an ax. If you google, you unfortunately get a plethora of tragic events to choose from. Then the question is: Has this always been everyday in Sweden? The answer is no. Wasn't there poor people in Sweden before? I put the question because the government's analysis links poverty and social vulnerability to this kind of crime. Personally, I object to the thesis that poor people would have worse morals. Let me share my experience of poverty. I was born in Angered in Gothenburg, Sweden, and grew up in Bishopsgården. For those who do not know Gothenburg, I can say that these are so-called socially vulnerable areas. I'm a second generation immigrant, raised by a single mother. In many ways, then, I could be placed in the left-wing liberals' union for socially vulnerable. But there are many people who aren't born with a silver spoon in their mouths who don't become criminals-- actually, most of them. Let me get back to Maslows's emergency stairwell. You don't have to fight for your survival in Sweden unless you're homeless. Then the situation is fundamentally different. But now I am talking about the segment which cannot be categorized as absolute or relatively poor, born in socially vulnerable areas and which chooses to become lifestyle critical. Does social vulnerability explain crime in Swedish contexts? I say that it does not, but it is the free will that is crucial. Let us examine the facts. It's not the faves in Rio that people are born into here. We have free and tax-funded education in Sweden. We have a social safety net. And we have choices, whether they are secondary school studies that lead to becoming electricians or carpenters or college students for those who want to help other people, such as nurses or doctors, or those who want to take up the fight against criminals in streets and squares or in courtrooms. For that matter, there is the possibility of becoming a welder. If a second generation of immigrants who grew up in a socially vulnerable area can become a Member of Parliament, and if a welder can become Prime Minister, we live in a country with great opportunities. There are no extenuating circumstances to excuse a criminal life. It's not something you just slip into. You don't suddenly wake up one morning and stand there with a Glock 9 in your hand and point it in the mouth of your victim. Crime is a choice. Mr President, I would like to My point is this: These are fantasies. It's explanatory models that don't hold. If you do not recognise the problem formulation, you will never be able to solve the problem. I would therefore like to say to all people in socially vulnerable areas: do not listen to the Social Democrats when they put you in the same union as criminals! Don't let them define who you are or where you're going! Do not be limited by their Marxist class analysis, where your destiny is predestined! Sweden is a country with great opportunities. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-754	Mr President, I would like to After a full debate on the budget for next year, the autumn change budget is easily obscured. Nevertheless, I would like to make a speech on the content of the autumn amending budget. The autumn change budget is an opportunity to tune in with reality and to catch up on what has happened during the year. And something that really happens in Sweden is the green transition. It's happening right now. Many Swedes participate on the basis of their conditions and from their home in the green transition. For example, more people than predicted have bought a climate-smart car. Flying is decreasing, and train travel is increasing. People put solar cells on their roofs and in that way do both the climate and their own wallet a favor. This increases resilience to future changes. I admire and applaud the commitment of many citizens to the climate issue. I feel strong that is part of this movement. In the end, however, it is up to politicians to pursue a policy that will bring us to the climate targets adopted by the Parliament. The Swedish people are on the green transition. It is not the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats. The budget that the right-wing block pushed through a year ago was a manslaughter battle for Sweden's overall environmental and climate work. Local climate investments were stopped all over our country. In this autumn's amending budget, we will continue our efforts to restore after the environmental slaughter. When the right-wing conservatives pulled down on the photovoltaic support, it led to long queues. Climate fighters who had anticipated support for their part in climate work ended up in a situation where they did not know if they would get any support at all. In order to remedy this, in the autumn, we will add half a billion extra to the PV subsidy, so that everyone out there can get the support that they have anticipated. The same applies to landowners, i.e. forest owners, with a confirmed protective nature which after the napkin sketch ended up in a vacuum when they could not get compensation. Let's make sure they actually get it. Mr President, I would like to Swedes love and value Swedish nature. For the right-wing conservatives, however, nature is mostly a way of financing tax cuts. In the autumn change budget, we ensure that the work for the valuable Swedish nature can be maintained. In the autumn change budget, we will also increase support for the production of biogas. Together with Klimatklivet, this means, for example, that we have got biogas stations and the production of biogas around the whole of the Småland and bleaching coast. I and many people with me who often drive cars on those very roads are happy to be able to drive fossil-free even in the Swedish countryside. In addition to making arrangements with the environmental slaughter of the right-wing parties, we ensure other necessary investments for Sweden. One of these initiatives that I would particularly like to highlight is the increased media support. Local journalism is under strong economic pressure in many parts of the country, while it is needed more than in a long time. When journalists around Sweden are threatened and free speech is questioned, the policy needs to respond with efforts. Because journalism finally silences both freedom of speech and our democracy. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-765	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 2. In recent years we have been able to read about foreign researchers who are expelled from Sweden due to some small mistake – often of an administrative nature. A doctoral student recently got a right against the Migration Agency, who wanted to expel him for doing research in an American lab for six months. Another example is a graduate student who received an expulsion decision because research one was delayed because a third party did not deliver results on time. Of course, it should be orderly in all handling of residence permits, but unfortunately it seems easier for Sweden to expel serious researchers than hardened criminals. We must change this. Sweden should always be an attractive country for well-educated people, for researchers and for students who seriously want to invest in a future in Sweden. Sweden needs this competence. In fact, it is incomprehensible how rigid the current regulations are and how rigid the Migration Agency sees any small mistakes made by researchers. You strike directly, and the scientists risk expulsion. Mr President, I would like to It is good that the government proposal now comes and that it contains proposals that improve the regulatory framework. The proposal was made for Swedish law to be adapted to an EU directive, and this means, among other things, that the time for applying for a job after completing studies is extended from six months to one year. It should also be possible to switch and travel between EU countries to conduct studies and research there. It will be easier to apply for a job, start your own business and get an internship in Sweden. However, it may still be difficult to obtain a permanent residence permit afterwards. We believe that it is reasonable for the amendments to the Aliens Act to be evaluated – the changes made in 2014 for non-European students, researchers and their accompanyings – to see what more needs to be done. We Moderates believe that the government should come back with proposals for further measures that, if possible, will make it easier for more researchers to stay and work in Sweden. They should be able to complete their training and later be able to work and contribute their skills. Unfortunately, there are still some doubts, and it would be unfortunate if Sweden missed invaluable competence because of our own difficult rules.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-770	Mr President, I would like to In order not to be so long, I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 only. Ladies and gentlemen! Sweden should be a knowledge nation with higher education and world-class research. In fact, I believe that all Members here today can agree on that objective. Let me begin by thanking the government for a proposal that is moving in the right direction. EU Member States have more similar conditions to compete for students and researchers, and the laws are brought together in a way that makes it easier to get an overview. The rules for internships and au pair work have become clearer, and that is of course great. There should be order in migration policy, and why not start in this area? However, as you all know, even things that are good can always get better. Unfortunately, the government's proposal opens up loopholes for cheating, and it also creates unfortunate risks for those who come to Sweden. According to the proposal, as a foreigner, you simply need to show that you have applied for comprehensive health insurance, not to prove that you really have one. So what happens if you have come to Sweden, wait for information about insurance and suddenly suffer from a ruptured appendix? This, of course, involves a great economic risk for the individual, and at the same time it entails a risk of additional strain on Swedish welfare and the Swedish health care system. Of course, this may also mean that when the residence permit is to be extended it does not meet the requirements. Then you will be rejected and expelled, in accordance with the regulations – no matter how well you have performed and no matter what you have added to the knowledge nation of Sweden. If there is one thing we do not need more of, Mr President, there are competence demonstrations. This would be quite easy to remedy by simply requiring a proven comprehensive health insurance already at the time of application. Perhaps the next question is even more important in principle. We believe that Swedish welfare should not reasonably be taken for granted by foreign citizens. Today, and even according to the government's new proposal, it does not work that way. If you as a foreigner move to Sweden and plan to stay longer than a year, you can be considered a resident from day one. If you are considered a resident, this means that you do not need any insurance at all, because it stands for Swedish taxpayers. Mr President, I would like to Could be considered a resident, I said. We know from experience that different authorities interpret laws and regulations in different ways when space is given. In this case, for example, there may be a situation in which the Finnish Immigration Service says that you can register and give you a residence permit even without health insurance – but the Swedish Tax Agency rejects. A foreigner then stands on Swedish land with a valid residence permit, outside the general health insurance and without any control function that captures this. This means, as I mentioned earlier, great economic risks for both individuals and society. Swedish legislation should be more robust and more thought-out than this. This is something that the Migration Agency also addresses in its referral. Of course, we cannot solve the whole basic problem, that is, the principles of who should be entitled to Swedish tax-funded welfare, today. But we can actually make sure to take at least small steps in the right direction. Mr President, I would like to We can make sure that together we try to see what can come around the corner – in all aspects of migration policy.
i-BAm79oHm3hwBhZEzyjxT3L	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for approval of the Social Security Committee's proposal in the report New rules on residence permits for research and studies in higher education and refusal of reservations. The student and research directive adopted by the European Parliament and the Council in 2016 is thus a directive that is binding on Sweden. That is what the government has put forward a proposal on, which we are discussing in our report. If a Member State does not implement a directive, it is applied directly, because it is a directive. The Government is therefore proposing new rules on residence permits for research, higher education studies, higher education traineeships, volunteering within the framework of European voluntary service and au pair work, and residence permits after completion of research or completion of studies. The committee believes that these special provisions are included in a separate chapter of the Aliens Act, and that this increases clarity. Mr President, I would like to Like the government, we want to highlight the importance of strengthening Sweden's attraction and competitiveness as a knowledge nation and destination country for foreign researchers, students and other highly qualified people. We note that, in addition to proposed regulatory simplifications, the Government makes proposals that make it easier for researchers and students to work in Sweden. Among other things, it proposes an extended possibility of mobility within the EU and extended residence permit periods after completed studies, which we heard Katarina Brännström from the Moderates raised and welcomed. Regarding the permit period for residence permits after completed research or studies, the committee shares the government's view that residence permits should be granted for a period of one year. Foreigners who are eligible for this type of permit are generally highly educated and sought after in the labour market, and even if they have stayed in Sweden for some time before they start looking for a job or start a business, it may take time for them to establish themselves in Sweden. Therefore, the rules should be designed so that they both attract more students and researchers to Sweden and make it easier for those who have been trained in the country to stay and work here as employees or as entrepreneurs. Twelve months is therefore a well-balanced time for them to establish themselves. As far as health insurance is concerned, the proposal is consistent with the EU Blue Card, ICT authorisation and seasonal work permit. The proposal requires a foreigner, in order to be granted a residence permit for a stay of up to one year, to demonstrate that he or she has or has applied for a comprehensive health insurance valid in Sweden. A permit may be revoked if during the stay here it appears that the foreigner does not have or tries to get a health insurance. The foreigner shall also demonstrate that he or she has or will have sufficient means of subsistence during the permit period and to cover the costs of his or her return to be granted a residence permit. Mr President, I would like to This amendment is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2020. It is therefore also important that we make a decision here today, so that we send a clear signal to researchers and students who want simpler rules, and that they also understand the content of our Aliens Act.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-784	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's major integration failure is evident every day and in many different areas. We see it in gang crime, in school, in social services, in health care, in welfare benefits and in the brutal exclusion. It takes a great deal of us all – individuals, society and politics – if we are to be able to reverse developments and if we are to give people the opportunity to really get into Swedish society. We cannot be satisfied that they have come within our borders. One condition for us to have a chance at all is that we have a tight immigration situation for a long time to come. Therefore, we Moderates have proposed a volume target, which means that asylum migration decreases by 70 per cent, down to Nordic levels. We cannot continue to stand out with great reception of asylum compared to comparable countries year after year. It is important for integration how many are to be integrated. To open up, as the government did last summer, to more family migrants was deeply irresponsible. Another crucial prerequisite for integration that we are debating here today is that we really are tackling the segregation of residents. The government, together with the cooperation parties in the January Agreement, the Liberals and the Center Party, has proposed a restriction on the possibility of self-occupation, EBO, during the period of asylum. They propose that asylum seekers should not be entitled to compensation if they choose to settle in certain socially vulnerable areas that will be identified. We Moderates think it is a small step in the right direction, but we are convinced that it is not enough. And many referrals share our assessment. They point out, among other things, that there is a risk that people still choose to settle in the affected areas, that they state incorrect addresses and that they use false rental contracts. They point out that there is a risk of stigmatisation of the areas covered by the area restriction but also that negative housing social problems will continue to exist in municipal parts not covered by the restriction. Mr President, I would like to EBO has created segregation, extreme overcrowding and major social problems. The worst part is that children get hurt. Many get poor school scores, and some are recruited early into crime. We should have abolished EBO a long time ago. It is important to cope with integration and ensure that people get a good place to live where they can get to their right. So how do we Moderates want it to work instead? With a sharp reduction in the number of asylum seekers and the right resources for the asylum process, the asylum period can be shortened from today's sometimes long-term processing times to between three and six months. During that period, it is reasonable to live in accommodations designated by the Finnish Immigration Service. Then asylum seekers will also have better contact with the authorities, and it will be easier to get a quick return for those who have been rejected on their asylum application. Today, in fact, they amount to 70%. However, we do not believe that it is really enough just to withdraw the daily allowance for those who do not live on designated accommodation. Then there is the risk that we will end up in the situations that many referrals warn us of. We therefore believe that we should look at possible consequences other than just withdrawing the daily allowance for those who do not live on the accommodation they have been assigned by the Migration Agency, but in such cases, of course, exceptions should be made for those who have their own livelihood from their own work. In fact, Mr President, this should be a moderate policy for a long time, but it is not. It's a new policy since our voice earlier this fall, but better late than never. Now we are trying to do what we can to push this policy through. Since the decision was taken after the motion had expired, we have no claims of our own that fully correspond to our new policy regarding EBO. That is why we have chosen to partially accept a number of motions: our own and Christian Democrats, the Swedish Democrats and also a few individual motions from Social Democrats. I would therefore like to express my support for this reprogramming of the reservation, which has No 2.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-793	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin with an oath to vote in favour of reservation 2 in paragraph 3. I can also start a little at the end where Maria Malmer Stenergard left off and thank the voice of the Moderates and, at the same time, also thank the voice of the Christian Democrats for finally taking a wiser line on migration policy and, in particular, on EBO legislation. This is something that we Swedish democrats have been exercising about in principle ever since we first entered the Riksdag. At least I saw that in our second year there were concrete moves to abolish the EBO legislation. Mr President, I would like to This is not really any strange thing at all. If I were to describe in one word the Swedish migration policy of the last few decades, that word would probably be a hindsight. It could also be used to say that the word is irresponsible. We have said that many times. But what is telling in this particular debate is precisely hindsight. The report by the majority of committees highlights a number of examples of how it has subsequently seen the negative consequences of legislation that was pushed through with high hopes of good integration effects. The whole thing is not really strange: If you let people wind up and encourage them to settle where they want to live, it will increase segregation. This should have been obvious early. In the same way, it is also self-evident to me that if, in the situation where we are now trying to redirect with small changes in economic incentives, this will not lead to a desired reduction in segregation. Man is a complex being. New ways and directions can be steered by financial incentives. However, once a system has been established in which large diaspora live in parallel communities, there is much more to attract than the possibility of a daily allowance. This is one of many reasons why we in the Swedish Democrats have been critical of the EBO Act as such for a long time. It makes it possible for people to receive benefits even though they refuse accommodation. In my world, this should be quite obvious: If you arrange your own accommodation yourself, you have no need for other benefits. Then you've actually managed to find that accommodation yourself. You should be able to do it. We have also been critical of the whole process as such. In the follow-up motion that we aroused in connection with the bill, we chose to make it extra clear. You have to go further than the government does. It is not enough to point out from a central point of view certain areas where you should not be allowed to settle if you want to retain your daily allowance while it should be quite possible in other areas. It's not gonna work. It hasn't worked so far to control where you want to or not. It has not worked so far to control whether or not segregated areas occur, and segregated areas will continue to emerge. When we first heard about the proposal, it was an obvious thought that struck us: there is also a risk that the municipalities and areas that are now socio-economically vulnerable and are thus to be excluded will be even more difficult. The only effect, when there are already great incentives to live freely with other citizens, is that there will be even more residents in these areas who do not receive compensation. It is not a sustainable policy. It is also the case that, just as Maria Stenergard did, this actually makes the whole asylum process more difficult. It is notable that in the receiving directive from the EU, which partly governs what we can and cannot do in Swedish legislation, it is explicitly stated that Member States have the right to restrict where and how asylum seekers settle, for example in order to facilitate and strengthen the trial process while waiting for their response. For us Swedish democrats, it has been quite obvious for a long time that we have to focus on shortening the asylum process and indeed also on not investing a lot in the so-called integration process getting started before we have even received an answer as to whether or not the person in question should be allowed to stay in the country. It just makes it harder and heavier for everyone. Let's say the person gets a no at a late stage, after a lot of resources have been invested. Then we have invested resources in someone who may not really have been entitled to it. We have given false hope to the person who will not be allowed to stay in this country. It will also be a much more difficult process to say goodbye at a later date. That is why we have a second motion in our accompanying motion, partly approved in the joint reservation, that we need to look at what additional restrictions we can make in Swedish legislation in order to actually remove the possibility for people to settle wherever they want during the asylum period. The Moderates have chosen to have a special opinion in which they highlight, among other things, the fact that there should of course be exceptions for those who work and have their own livelihood. On behalf of the Swedish Democrats, we think it would be unfortunate, for the reasons I have just mentioned. In the hopefully short period that a person is just an asylum seeker, the question is whether they should begin the process of working in the country at all. This is particularly important for security reasons, given all the different stories that have been revealed recently about people who go underground and people who disappear in the country in different ways. These are people we don't know if they even have the right to be in the country or not. Once it is discovered that they do not have it, it is too late. Mr President, I would like to I am very happy about this reservation and that it is designed as it is. I hope that more parties, like the Christian Democrats and the Moderates, actually turn around and dare to look at migration policy in a more sustainable and wise way. It is a question of thinking before: what are the consequences of the legislation we implement? Will it be effective? Will we get the results that we want? Are there loopholes that will be exploited? What are we gonna do to plug the holes? We should not do this after decades when we discover that we have a divided country with thousands, tens of thousands or perhaps hundreds of thousands of people living in alienation. There may then be criminals here that we do not know where they are. There may be people staying here illegally. Once it became clear that their applications would be rejected, they would have gone underground. There may be hundreds of people who are written on the addresses of small shops and kiosks, because we have an EBO legislation that looks like it does. One should actually take responsibility right from the start when the laws are passed to close all loopholes. Then you have a responsible and wise policy. With that, Madam President, I would like once again to support reservation 2.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-809	Madam President, I would like For the Left Party, robust and solidarity-based welfare is the key to successful integration. This integration includes all of us, not just the newly arrived ones. Through tax-funded welfare and security systems, we are all given the opportunity to develop from isolated small satellites to become part of community and community-building. It is about solidarity between generations to finance education and pensions, between the healthy and the sick, between the working and the unemployed, between those who live in abundance and those who live on the margins – all to build a safe and equal society with health care, culture, infrastructure and housing. We in the Left Party assume that everyone in society wants to contribute by working and that the state has a responsibility to make it possible. The question for the day, Madam President, is whether we should combat the causes of housing shortages, overcrowding and segregation or whether we should punish the people who are doing their best to deal with the consequences of this. When the Government presented the Act on temporary restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden, it was motivated by the desire to create a so-called breathing space for asylum reception, which would be used to improve reception capacity. Nevertheless, we have not been able to see any improvement in the reception during the more than three years that the law has been in force – on the contrary. Instead, the reception capacity has been dismantled, and the resources of the Migration Agency have been reduced by longer processing times and uncertainty as a result. When the government now chooses to break out the proposal to restrict the right to own living from the Receipt Investigation, it is clear that it continues to advocate a repressive signal policy rather than proposals that actually work. The Left Party shares the survey's view that EBO causes problems and pressures in some parts of the country. At the same time, we believe that it can actually be an important, and unfortunately also sometimes necessary, opportunity for asylum seekers and newcomers to enter society with the help of family and acquaintances, if it is handled properly. The fact that asylum seekers and newcomers choose the housing form EBO is partly due to shortcomings in the other accommodation options offered to them. Several of the accommodations that the Migration Agency has procured have kept very low standards and been run by very rogue actors. They are often separated by long distances from larger communities where opportunities for education and work in the short and long term are better. I often meet asylum seekers who travel long distances to take part in Swedish education or other support. Sometimes it is so bad access to public transport that they barely have time to reach Swedish education before they have to go back so that they will also have time to leave and pick up at childcare. The discussion on EBO has thus largely focused on pressing asylum seekers and newcomers to opt out of the option rather than trying to understand why they choose it and change the basic conditions themselves. Why should asylum seekers choose overcrowding, insecure leases in the second, third and fourth hands or to be inherent if they can get their own accommodation with a reasonable standard within the reach of the service and opportunities they need? The Left Party would like to see another approach that more clearly focuses on improving the alternatives to EBO and is based on a greater understanding of why many choose it. We have a crying housing shortage in Sweden today because of the housing policy that has been pursued. The Left Party wants to put an end to the housing shortage and, above all, to invest in cheap rentals. Today, rich municipalities opt out of people with lower incomes by not offering rental apartments or by having only a few very expensive rental apartments. Therefore, in the absence of other security and other possibilities, some asylum seekers seek out their countrymen or relatives, often also relatively recent arrivals. And where do they live? Well, they live where you can get housing as new on the housing market – especially in areas with higher rents and lower income. In this way, segregation is enhanced. Neither the people in these areas nor the areas themselves are at fault, although this is often the case in the debate. Instead, it is the inability of community building to even out inequality and create housing that ordinary people can afford in all kinds of residential areas and in all kinds of municipalities. The Left Party wants to break the segregation by investing in those parts of the country that have fallen behind and ensure that all municipalities, including the rich, build rental apartments and have a functioning public utility and housing agency that provides rental rights with reasonable rents instead of punishing the people who live there. This is how the Swedish welfare society has also historically met challenges with poor housing standards, overcrowding and segregation. Only through massive joint investment in housing construction did they manage to build away a Sweden where parts of the working class lived in misery without washing facilities and with dass on the farm. I would like to remind you that, even then, the blame and responsibility for their very existence were laid on the poor from the right. The question is, Madam President, why a social democratic government has lost faith in state responsibility for housing policy and now believes that it is through the suspension of aid and the identification of certain areas that we are dealing with housing shortages, overcrowding, segregation and low standards. Madam President, I would like The reception inquiry describes very clearly how a good standard, security and meaningful accommodation activities are the most important means of getting asylum seekers and new arrivals to stay where they are assigned. So we know what needs to be done. We also see how the situation of those living in EBO deteriorated when the possibility of applying for housing allowance for this group was withdrawn. Making further withdrawals of compensation would risk further worsening the situation and making vulnerability even greater. The Left Party is therefore very critical of any proposal to suspend aid or reduce conditions. We believe that the problems that the proposal claims to want to solve are based on inequality and an unfair distribution of resources. Through this bill, the government makes the problems a question of individual choices rather than social structures. We believe that the solutions to the problems pointed out by the government exist in areas such as the quality of reception, housing policy, welfare policy and redistribution, rather than restricting the right to aid for those who already live on small margins. In order to improve the housing situation for asylum seekers, the government should stop the benefits of receiving refugees through greater government responsibility and improve the Swedish Immigration Service's procurement of accommodation according to the criticism that the Swedish National Audit Office has actually addressed. There is also a need to increase knowledge and competence on gender equality and LGBTQ issues in asylum housing. Madam President, I would like Even in terms of the government's own measures, the proposed amendment to the law cannot be considered to be a good thing. According to the government's estimates, around 60 per cent of the 14 000 currently living in their own homes are expected to remain in areas with socio-economic challenges even after the change of legislation. Thus, some 8,400 people are expected to remain in areas where the government considers it socially unsustainable that they live and also live without a daily allowance according to LMA as a result of this amendment. As several consultation bodies highlight, there is a risk that the proposal will lead to increased costs for municipalities. It cannot be considered a particularly good outcome for a change of law that should lead to a change in behaviour. Madam President, I would like The Left Party knows that by investing in society and each other we can build a stronger, safer and more inclusive Sweden. This is the realistic and solidarity-based way of defending and developing the welfare model that has such broad support in Sweden. The fight against racist forces for a dignified reception of refugees in harmony with contemporary needs and to develop welfare in a more open Sweden where we are more closely interwoven. It is the intention of the Left Party to take responsibility for this solidarity-based realism. For the reasons I have mentioned, the Left Party cannot support the Government's proposal. I therefore ask for reservation 1 that the proposal should be rejected.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-834	Madam President, I would like I call for the approval of reservation 2, which is formulated by the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. We need to replace EBO with ABO. That is what the Christian Democrats are saying. In the long term, the housing of asylum seekers, EBO, must be replaced by housing facilities, ABO. The Christian Democrats recently adopted a new programme for integration at their Parliamentary Session. Here we point out four different tracks that we think are important. The first is to halt the negative development in the exclusion areas. We cannot allow suburban problems to grow. The second is to raise human capital, to help people to become employable. The third is to increase the driving forces for the individual to become part of the community. The fourth is to involve civil society, from the football club and the assembly to the companies. The integration policy we adopted contains 36 different reform proposals. There are performance requirements and clear objectives where we propose, for example, that you have language and civic knowledge in order to be able to receive permanent residence permits, PUT, and citizenship. We have activity requirements to receive supply support. This constantly aims to break with passivation and create and motivate participation. At the same time, of course, we also have exceptions for particularly weak groups. One of these 36 measures is the dismantling of the EBO. That is why we have also chosen today to reserve ourselves, because we see that there is a need for more measures than those contained in the proposed proposal. We believe that today's proposal is a step in the right direction. However, it is still only one step, and it is not enough if we are serious about dealing with the shadow societies in which people live. No other country uses the form of housing itself, EBO, to such an extent as Sweden. This concludes the investigation An arranged reception – joint responsibility for rapid establishment or return that came last year. The ESO report Inspiration for integration states the same thing. The EBO Act has been in place in Sweden since 1994, and it contributes to cementing segregation in our Sweden. The Christian Democrats are clear: we should have a migration policy that takes into account our ability to integrate. When this does not happen, we will have overcrowded suburbs, parallel communities, exclusions and settlements of tens of thousands of people. We must dare to see the link between immigration in excessive volumes and very serious social problems with which we are struggling. Madam President, I would like We must therefore combine integration policy with migration policy and ensure that migration policy allows us to integrate. This capacity requires a tight migration policy for a number of years to come. We Christian Democrats want to bring the search pressure down to a comparable Nordic level, and then, of course, we must be prepared to look at every single piece of legislation and also the design of welfare systems. The Christian Democrats have an integration policy that increases the integration potential. In such a policy one can never get around the fact that the housing situation of asylum seekers is a key element. We need a more even distribution and better planning of how we receive our asylum seekers. Today, we can see that a large proportion of those who come to Sweden end up in their own homes with their compatriots in already heavily strained suburbs or cities. Here they suffer from overcrowding and segregation, and they are exploited by having to buy black contracts many times. If people who come to Sweden are to be integrated, they must also be given the conditions to be able to do so. We Christian Democrats believe that decent housing is an important part of this. Unfortunately, we mean, that aspect has been ignored for a long time. I believe that this is partly out of goodwill, but I also think that it is cheaper for the state with its own accommodation than with construction housing. Madam President, I would like Plant housing is now not without problems. If we with EBO create a housing that often involves crowded environments and vulnerable suburbs to large cities, ABO is not without problems. Often we find construction housing in sparsely populated areas where it is far from the important labour market link. It is often the case that it is where the vacant properties are that can be procured by the Migration Agency. Many times it is in municipalities that, in recent years, it has been affected not least by radically increased costs of, for example, supply support and schooling. These are costs that are difficult to bear for small municipalities. If the segregation in Sweden is to be broken, as we Christian Democrats are inspired by, then the trend we have seen in recent years must be broken. That is why we believe that the right to own housing should be abolished as soon as possible and that in future construction housing should be the form of housing offered by the state. We will now ensure that residential housing is procured in places that take account of labour market conditions, the degree of segregation in nearby schools and the finances of municipalities. Of course, no housing should be procured in particularly vulnerable areas. We are in favour of our joint reservation No 2.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-852	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal contained in the Social Security Committee's report No 11, Socially sustainable housing for asylum seekers, thereby rejecting the reservations. In Saturday's Sydsvenska Dagbladet it was an article about exclusion in Malmö and about the segregation that hits people who are in greatest need of community support. That article interviewed three people. One of those interviewed was Malmö's former Chairman of the Municipal Board Ilmar Reepalu. The article was about exclusion, but it is based on what we are discussing today, which is what we call the EBO law in everyday terms. The reason why I am referring to that law is that many years ago several local councillors pointed out precisely the back pages of this legislation. In 2007, the Chairmans of Malmö, Södertälje and Gothenburg wrote letters to the Government asking the Government to take action against legislation that did not work. After that letter and after those activities, the criticism has continued. The criticism has been strengthened, and it has been constantly presented, now by Boel Godner, the Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board of Södertälje, and Katrin Stjernfeldt Jammeh, Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board of Malmö – to give some examples. It is a criticism of legislation that responsible politicians in municipalities around the country have seen the backs of through overcrowding and exclusion. That is what the article in Sydsvenskan was about, that is, overcrowding and alienation that creates destructive environments. It has been clear to us Social Democrats for years that something needs to be done. We cannot keep legislation that creates problems instead of solving them. Therefore, when we were given the opportunity to form a government after the 2014 elections, these were priority issues. The bourgeois government that we succeeded had threatened with measures to overcome problems in reception and increased segregation, but it had not acted. Therefore, a first important step was to ensure that all municipalities, especially those that have not taken responsibility before, now share the responsibility for receiving and integrating people who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden. However, we also need to ensure that we do not make it difficult for asylum seekers while they are here and have their applications handled. We Social Democrats believe that this should be done by dismantling the EBO law. But there has been no support in this House for a long time. That is why we can now instead take decisions in the right direction, even if it does not go as far as we wish. We are now taking important steps to counter the negative consequences of legislation introduced two decades ago. We show with this decision that we have listened to the municipalities that have grappled with the back of the legislation, but we do so in a way where we listen to the municipal representatives, who know their municipalities best, by allowing the government in a regulation to give municipalities the opportunity to notify in a notification procedure the vulnerable areas to be excluded from EBO. Basically, we do this in order to create the conditions for good growing-up conditions for children and young people in all parts of our society. Those who come to our country to seek refuge from oppression and persecution will be given real opportunities to create a good life and opportunity to contribute. This is based on the fact that more municipalities will have to participate in the reception after asylum seekers have been granted a residence permit, but it is also based on the need for socially vulnerable areas to be given easier pressure during the period of asylum. It is gratifying that so many are at last prepared to take steps in this direction. It's a wake-up call, but it's a late awakening. That is why I must also comment on the reservation that is supported, among other things, by the Members of the Moderates. Maria Stenergard said from this speaker's chair that we should have abolished EBO a long time ago. When we started to deal with this matter in the Social Security Committee on 24 October 2019, the Moderates did not know what they thought of EBO. A month ago the Moderates sat and wrote up a motion where they said they would return with positions. To say now that we should have abolished EBO a long time ago when a month ago they did not even know if they wanted to abolish EBO is something powerful. Of course, we Social Democrats have not been able to wait for a position from such – on this issue – rogue parties. We can see that there has been political opposition to making changes in the EBO, and that is why it is clear that it was a strength for us when, together with the Centers, Liberals and the Green Party, we were able to start working on proposals to take steps in the right direction. While Moderates and Christian Democrats a few weeks ago wondered what they would think, we wrote proposals. It's action instead of theory. In the committee's position, we point to the need to follow this issue closely. We decide on some changes to the legislation by focusing on those areas where there are problems. But for us Social Democrats it is the result that is essential. The legislation must lead to areas with problems having a situation that improves living conditions and tackles overcrowding. At the same time, we must be vigilant that trade in black contracts and false addresses is not increasing. Therefore, it is again important that municipalities are given the opportunity to make assessments through the notification procedure. This is a big decision today, and it is a long-awaited decision. That is why, in conclusion, I am happy to support the proposal in the committee's report and, therefore, in the Government's proposal.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-864	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rikard Larsson, for an interesting speech! And thank you, the government, for one of the few proposals it has actually managed to deliver to this House! This is very interesting. Rikard Larsson goes to frontal attacks and accuses the Moderates of not knowing what we thought on this matter just a few months ago. I'm the first to agree. I also said in my speech that the Moderates should have thought this way a long time ago. Now, here's what we're thinking. We knew that we had a voice ahead of us, where we would take a stand on this. We waited for the decision and then acted in full accordance with it, and we have done everything we can to push forward in this House for what we believe in. However, one might think that there could be an ounce of self-criticism at Rikard Larsson. It is very clear what the Social Democrats think. They want to abolish EBO. They refer to a number of leading social democratic representatives who strongly distance themselves from the EBO. For example, Boel Godner in Södertälje says: It's nice to have clear Social Democrats! Don't you think? But, oops, you don't abolish EBO in the bill. You make a little adjustment. That is why my question is, quite frankly: if you know so clearly what you think, why do you not abolish EBO?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-869	Madam President, I would like Because there has not been a majority for it in this House. Because Maria Malmer Stenergard and her party colleagues, together with the other bourgeois parties, have spent eight years in this assembly and have done nothing, nothing, to the issue. It should be made clear that we are now in a committee on migration policy and have a desire to reach a broad agreement there. But the Moderates are not a party to hold hands on these issues. From one week to the next, it changes its opinion on labour migration and EBO legislation. You started with opening hearts, and now you're gonna close doors. The Moderates have done nothing when they were in a majority and in a government position. Nothing they've done on these issues. We've had to deal with that afterwards. Why did there not come an invitation to the Social Democrats when we had a moderate Prime Minister in Sweden to abolish the EBO? Nothing was heard. When we took office in 2014, we began working on trying to get another system of things on these matters. We started with a reception that all municipalities must be part of. We are continuing to make changes to the EBO legislation – in the direction that there was a majority to make changes when we put forward the proposals, because when we put forward the proposals and the proposals, the Moderates were still thinking about what they would think. The problem is not really that the Moderates had not made up their minds on 24 October when we dealt with the matter. The problem is that they had not decided in 1994, when they introduced the legislation. You haven't seen the back of this. You haven't been willing to do anything about it. Had you been willing to do something, we could have solved this a long time ago.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-874	Madam President, I would like I mean, this is beyond my comprehension. I ask the question why the Social Democrats, now that they are so clear about what they want on the EBO issue, are not doing what they themselves want. We may have changed our mind, but at least we're trying to push through what we actually believe in. Then the Social Democrats say, "No, we cannot move forward with the abolition of the EBO, because the alliance government did not do that." Completely incomprehensible, in my opinion. Let's take another example. We Moderates believe that there must be a significant reduction in the level of asylum. If I have understood correctly, the Social Democrats feel the same way. In May 2018, just before the elections, they said they wanted to go down to European levels. I think that is very welcome. When we say Nordic levels and the Social Democrats say European levels, then I really think we can find a broad basis to stand on in a forthcoming migration agreement. Just a few weeks ago, the Prime Minister – sorry, the party chairman of the Social Democrats – said that he wants asylum reception at European levels. It is therefore clear what the Social Democrats think about the reception of asylum. But is there a risk that you will do in migration policy just as you do with EBO, that is to say, what we Social Democrats think, but we choose to go forward with this policy? I guess you can trust the Moderates. We have woken up late, I agree, but now we are pushing our policy into the tile of this House. The Social Democrats, on the other hand, say what they want and do something completely different. That's not good enough.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-878	Madam President, I would like If you work with legislation in the Swedish parliament, you have to be serious. You can't come when you've written a bill, referred a legislative referral and prepared a case and say, Now we have another proposal, when there's a couple of days left. You have to fix the situation, and then you also have to gather the majority that exists to get new legislation passed in the Swedish parliament. We've done that. We stand for our agreements, and in this case we have made agreements with the Center Party, the Liberals and the Green Party. We stand by those agreements. I understand that it is frustrating for the Moderates that we are now doing something, when the Moderates have been sitting all the time thinking about what to think. We move faster from words to action and bring together the majorities needed to bring about change, not just to conduct placard politics. Me and Maria Malmer Stenergard are on the same migration committee. Let us take the discussions there! After all, it is one thing that this government has done. It has set up a Migration Policy Committee to talk about these things and hopefully achieve a long-term sustainable migration policy. But the Moderates will have to make sure to have a slightly more stable basis to stand on if we are to make agreements.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-882	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd start with some math and curiosity. Last parliamentary term, the Social Democrats had 113 mandates. The Swedish Democrats had 49 mandates, and the Christian Democrats had 16 mandates. In the Christian Democrats' Spring Bill for 2014/ 15, they said they wanted to abolish the daily allowance for EBO. The Swedish Democrats have, as I said, wanted to abolish it for a long time. 113 plus 16 plus 49 is 178. It is a majority in the Swedish Parliament. There has thus been a majority for further steps in the past. But let's put all that aside. The committee's reply, in the main report, states, among other things, that it considers that there is no reason for Parliament now to address a request to the government for more proposals in this area or for a larger opinion. It must be considered more appropriate to await the effects of the present proposal before any further action is investigated. ..................................................... This is interesting, not least in the light of the change of line that just took place. The leaders of the majority of committees must of course be considered Rikard Larsson and the Social Democrats, and they have thus chosen to formulate themselves in this way while blaming others and saying, "No, there is no majority to go further – we can take it elsewhere." There is a majority. There are suggestions. It is not that our reservation means that we should not legislate in accordance with the bill on the table. That legislation would have been obtained anyway. However, a clear signal could have been sent from the committee that we, who are working on these issues on a daily basis, see the need to go further, see that this is not enough. There is, according to what the Social Democrats sometimes say, a clear majority in favour of this, to say the least. Why is it so difficult to send the clear signal – not least to the Migration Committee so that it knows that in this direction there is a majority, so in this direction we are going to come up with proposals?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-887	Madam President, I would like When I talk about majorities, serious proposals and stability over time, I do not really include the Swedish Democrats in this. Why don't I? Because, time and again, the Swedish Democrats are standing in this House describing those who come to our country to seek protection as criminals or potentially criminals. The Swedish Democrats are pursuing a policy that wants to increase the contradictions in society. When talking about crime, Sweden's democrats' main action is to put an end to those seeking protection in Sweden. It would be very strange to sit down and to some extent settle with a party that so clearly wants to increase the contradictions between those in need of protection and the rest of the population. The Swedish Democrats are not a serious party in this context. It has been made clear on many occasions that, whatever the other parties say, they want to go further in immigration policy because they have a fundamentally xenophobic and racist policy. We don't make deals with that kind of party.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-889	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rikard Larsson, for your answer! It is good to have these constant reminders in the country about what the Social Democrats, who say they want to take responsibility for the country, actually mean by that. They do not listen to others when they then adopt and steal our arguments. In fact, I have seen previous terms of office that the Social Democrats have used word for word the things I have put forward as arguments when they have then stood in the speaker's seat. Besides, perhaps Rikard Larsson and the Social Democrats should listen to Adam Marttinen and the party they want to exclude from talks about, for example, gang crime, which has been the driving force for a great many of the proposals that they then actually realised are needed in our country. Surely we have a serious policy of dealing with crime. However, since we are not going to talk about majorities because the Social Democrats choose to pretend that perhaps the largest party in Sweden does not exist at the moment, I would like to ask another question. In my speech, I was a little bit concerned that financial incentives alone are not enough or just talking about the issue of segregation. In fact, it is also a matter of security for us to know where people are. There is a kiosk in a Stockholm suburb where 320 people are written. It is not going very far to assume that a great many of them have signed up there within the framework of e.g. EBO. As I was in my speech, not least in view of the large number of people who have deviated in our country, an important part of moving from the EBO to the ABO is that, before the question is settled and we know who is here and whether the person should stay or not, it is reasonable to know where people are. Given that you want to speed up the processes, it is also reasonable to know where people are so that you can hold further interviews and supplement the information. It is not unreasonable to limit where they may live for a short period of time when the time is then shortened. My question is this: is this something that the Social Democrats might consider looking at?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-894	Madam President, I would like We definitely think that part of the policy must be to further shorten the period of asylum seekers so that the process is as short as possible and you can quickly find out if you have protection reasons and are allowed to stay in Sweden or to return home. This, of course, is part of our policy. Here we also get a little bit into why it is a bit tricky with the Swedish Democrats and their rhetoric. You paint it like other parties would think it's somehow okay if 120 people sign up in a kiosk. Of course, that is not the case. We are all opposed to these varieties. This is part of getting to grips with them. It is clear that it is problematic if asylum seekers come to the country and you do not know where they live. This is a proposal aimed at getting better control by allowing more people to live in the Migration Board's accommodations and fewer at addresses that are not even available, as in the case mentioned. It is clear that this needs to be followed up with very great control. Paula Bieler says we don't listen to others, but we do. We listen to many others. She also says that we pretend that SD doesn't exist. We don't. We know very well that you exist. But there is a difference between knowing that you exist and listening to everyone else, on the one hand, and trying to make sure that you get a little smaller, on the other hand.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-898	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rikard Larsson, for your speech. I listened to descriptions of the symptoms, I would say, of the injustices and class divisions in Sweden. I also talked about how Sweden has historically handled such situations. We all know that the same kind of situation, with people living in unworthy accommodations, prevailed in the 30s and 40s. It was solved by taking joint responsibility for housing construction and lifting each other out of such situations. We also know that when the temporary law was introduced, the government said it would equip the reception. I hear a lot of talk about the symptoms, and I see the bill we are debating today. But I hear very little about what the Social Democrats really want to do to get to grips with the root: inequality, the class divides, what the Social Democrats now call alienation. This is not something that has arisen by itself in certain geographical places, but a result of policies pursued. I want to hear how the Social Democrats intend to ensure that the housing facilities are so good that people want to be there. How do the Social Democrats intend to ensure that residential housing is located in places that are actually accessible? What are you going to do about the housing shortage?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-901	Madam President, I would like Now the debate is becoming somewhat wider, and that is interesting. These are extremely important issues – both housing policy and class policy as a whole. I think it is important to note that many of the areas that we are now talking about as socially vulnerable have much of this problem, regardless of whether or not you get asylum seekers, who settle there and receive benefits for their own residence. We need to take action regardless of this, and that is what our investment aid for housing construction and our money for municipalities are all about – that we can get better welfare and better planning conditions. But what this is all about is that we do not want to add to the problems that already exist with more. That is why we need to ensure that the socially vulnerable areas, which already face huge challenges today, are not further burdened. The reason why I link this to the part about those who have been granted a residence permit in Sweden is that we have seen distortions for a long time. I can take my region, where municipalities such as Malmö and Burlöv have had to take a huge responsibility while my own municipality of residence, Staffanstorp, and municipalities around, such as Lomma and Vellinge, have not had to take responsibility. They have had a completely different housing policy and have built for a completely different population than the one that actually comes to Sweden or is born here. That's why I make this connection so strongly. It's about both. We must ensure that all municipalities are involved in taking responsibility for the social vulnerability that exists, but at the same time we cannot turn a blind eye to the additional strain that these proposals bring on the socially vulnerable areas. We have to make changes, and we do now.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-906	Madam President, I would like I understand that we cannot discuss the overall scope of housing policy, but my first question was quite straightforward. What do the Social Democrats think we should do to ensure that the housing facilities are in a different state? What we saw during the reception of refugees and still see – I am often out – are construction homes that are of such substandard quality that one is ashamed. It's not okay. I understand very well that people are trying to do their best to be in a different situation and why the Afghan women who are my friends are trying to find another place to live. It takes hours for them to get to Swedish or to leave children and such things. We must be able to do better. It's a pretty simple and straightforward question. Madam President, I would like What has happened in the debate is not that the Social Democrats have listened to the Swedish Democrats, but that it is that you describe the overcrowding and so on as a result of 14 000 people choosing EBO. It's not like that. It is the result of inequality, injustice and class divisions, and a strong economic policy is needed here. But first, Madam President, I would very much like to hear what the Social Democrats intend to do with regard to housing.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-910	Madam President, I would like We are spending more money in the 2020 budget precisely to deal with the effects of making changes to the EBO legislation. It is one way to also provide more resources for accommodation. Let us remember the situation on the living side. I remember when in 2014 we talked about private accommodation of poor quality. The government then tried to phase out this type of accommodation in the reception to get higher quality by taking more of the Migration Agency's accommodations and fewer private accommodations. In the middle of that change came autumn 2015 with a sharp increase in the number of asylum seekers. Then we got into a panic situation when it came to finding accommodations. What happened in 2015 is still alive in the entire reception organization. Now we need a more sensible reception. We need to get order in the reception and in terms of our own residence, and we need to provide resources to the Migration Agency so that you can build better housing on your own. This is the policy we are pursuing now.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-913	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal. There are many of us who are concerned about the lack of integration for new arrivals in Sweden in recent years. Instead of fast ways into society through jobs and education, they have been faced with a long wait for the next step. Instead of community and security, they have been faced with social vulnerability, exclusion and rigid bureaucracy. This has increased the gap between people in Sweden. People who come to Sweden want to contribute to society, but that requires a reception that makes this possible. Only in July this year, more than half of those enrolled in the reception system of the Finnish Immigration Service lived in their own homes. It is fundamentally positive that people can decide for themselves where to live, such as close relatives, friends and networks of contacts. It can facilitate the establishment of society. Unfortunately, we have seen increased segregation in society. The EBO has contributed to an uneven distribution of asylum seekers. There is a clear problem with applicants seeking access to certain municipalities and to certain specific areas of these municipalities. These are in many cases areas with major challenges such as segregation, high unemployment, insecure environments, etc., which means less opportunities for establishment in Swedish society. In essence, however, it is, as I have said, positive that people themselves are allowed to choose where in the country they live. Only last Monday, I visited one of the areas in the country that has the greatest challenges, Drottninghög in Helsingborg. I have visited the area many times over the years. The challenges are enormous: heavy wear and tear in the housing population, unsafe outdoor environments, high unemployment, serious crime at a low age and high mental illness. Over a couple of years, a number of different actors have made great efforts to develop the area. This type of area development is now taking place in many places around the country. Unfortunately, the challenges in these areas are great, and it will take a long time before the problem is resolved. On Monday, I was also met with a great pride among those living in Drottninghög – a pride in the residential area and the development that is taking place. We need to ensure that the areas around the country facing these major challenges are well placed to flourish. Because of this, the Center Party, the Social Democrats, the Liberals and the Green Party agree to give municipalities, within the framework of the January Agreement, an opportunity to limit EBO in areas with socio-economic challenges. It is important that the impact of the reform is evaluated so that the right areas in the municipalities where the challenges are greatest are excluded from the possibility of EBO. These areas can change over time and therefore a thorough evaluation and analysis is absolutely necessary.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-924	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal. Unlike S-members like Rikard Larsson who read articles about alienation and C-members like Jonny Cato who visit alienation areas on Mondays, I myself grew up in such an area. So I can speak from my own experience. One of my strongest childhood memories is when I first got to go into my room and pick down my posters on Tupac Shakur and Destiny's Child from the walls, clean the room from junk and take my school books and move them over to my older brother's room. A new relative I had never heard of had come to Sweden and needed a place to live. This happened over and over again. Sometimes they stayed for years, other times for a few months. To be honest, I'm far from alone. If you go to one of Sweden's vulnerable areas and ask Swedish children there if they have had to give up their rooms sometime to relatives who have fled to Sweden, the answer will be: Yes, it happens quite often. It is quite interesting that the debate seems to assume that everyone rents housing when most people move in with their relatives. In my family, many of the relatives who came very well with the language. They learned coffee and practice in Swedish, and we helped them establish themselves in Sweden. But it happened at the expense of us Swedish children who grew up in vulnerable areas. We were even more crowded; our space shrunk. Our schools, where the majority already did not have Swedish as their mother tongue, received almost all newly arrived students. Of course, the school got worse when all the focus was on the new arrivals and when they all went to the same schools. I had schoolmates where three four children shared rooms with each other to give room to relatives who have fled to Sweden. Let us adopt the perspective of the children who actually live in these areas and receive relatives. We who many times already felt alienation had to take responsibility for integrating far more than there was a chance of success. Failed integration in Sweden has led to unsafe residential areas and in some cases radicalisation. Standards and expectations other than those generally applied in Sweden have dominated. As a LGBT person, I can vouch for it. Having a system where the majority of those who come to Sweden are looking for their own living in vulnerable areas is not a good way to receive people if the goal is that they will manage to get into self-sufficiency and get a roof over their heads. The initiative for the right to find their own housing for asylum seekers, EBO, was taken by a bourgeois government, and there were good thoughts when deciding on the system in the 1990s. But it has been shown to hit extremely hard on vulnerable areas, and it has suited the entire integration responsibility to the second generation of Swedish children and their parents. These are the ones we need to focus on, but I hear that this debate is about completely different things. When I grew up in Tynnered in Gothenburg in the late 90s and early 2000s it was not a vulnerable area. It is because of unconsidered integration policies that we have come here. Tynnered and other areas around Sweden first developed into transition areas where they sought to move forward. But now many people get stuck in these areas, and this has led to social exclusion. These areas are now second-class areas, and we must have a policy to reverse this. These are residential areas that you end up in when you first come to Sweden and then leave when you get the chance. But not everyone gets that chance. A large proportion of those who have not been able to get into society, Swedes who have recently come to Sweden and a lot of people who are asylum seekers, live now. As a new integration spokesperson for the Liberals, I am clear: Sweden should not have any vulnerable areas in 2030. I intend to propose and pursue the policy that Sweden needs to ensure that social cohesion in the country is not broken and that individuals who come to Sweden have an honest chance of success. That is our objective. That is where we are going, and the Liberals will come up with that policy. Madam President, I would like A first and important step is to make exceptions for own accommodation for asylum seekers in the vulnerable areas. This means, in practice, that you will not receive daily allowance if you settle in these areas. I want to be clear about something that does not seem to be known in this debate. It is the case that, from 1 October, a new law on the black trade applies, and civil registration laws have made it more difficult. The Swedish Tax Agency has also been commissioned to examine cases where a lot of people are written at the same addresses. Work is already being done that way. It may need to be improved, but it is already being done. I am a little worried about the debate that is going on here. For example, the Social Democrats seem to believe that they have done everything right for many years. In practice, they try to take credit by flaunting people like Boel Godner and Ilmar Reepalu, but it is these people that the Social Democrats have not listened to. Other parties such as M, KD and C are talking about the integration debt that Sweden has, but I would like to point out that it is rather these three parties that have an integration debt. It is they who are guilty of the alliance government failing to get through the pre-amendments that the Liberals were pushing and wanting to push during the alliance period. We need to be clear about this. Areas such as Tynnered in Gothenburg, Herrgården in Malmö and Rinkeby in Stockholm must be given an honest opportunity to reverse developments. We need to get school results up, get the share of work up and get security up, but we also need to get things down. We need to reduce the overcrowding, reduce the number of reported crimes and reduce the number of black contracts. It is therefore more important to start by selecting these very areas. I therefore believe that it is reasonable to be able to accept asylum seekers if you live in rich and safe areas such as Limhamn in Malmö, Majorna in Gothenburg or Bromma and Södermalm here in Stockholm. Where people have an honest chance of being integrated into society, they should be able to continue to live. But, of course, we want to examine the new legislation that will now come and evaluate it later, if necessary. I would like to conclude by saying one thing: 45% of the 500 largest and most successful companies in the United States were started by immigrants or children of immigrants – 45%! Let us be reasonable when we also talk about the people who come to Sweden. Many of them will do amazing things for our country.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-946	Madam President, I would like With the bill A socially sustainable home for asylum seekers, we are reforming the EBO legislation. It was part of the 73-point programme, the January agreement, agreed by the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Liberals and the Centre Party in January. EBO legislation has been debated for a long time, not only in this debate, but in the Riksdag and around Sweden, for more than two decades. There has been a criticism of EBO, that it has contributed to the fact that many new arrivals have gathered in some places and that this has brought with it overcrowding, which in turn has brought problems such as that it is difficult for children to do homework and other things. However, the EBO has had and may have many advantages, Madam President, compared to the options available. People who have come to Sweden have been introduced with the help of fellow citizens and women. Instead of living at construction homes with not always ultimate quality, they have come closer to society, learned Swedish faster and gained better conditions for integration and establishment. This is also a side of EBO. Madam President, I would like In connection with the migration agreement in October 2015, which six parties attended, we agreed on a series of measures. One that was important in this connection was the Housing Act, which meant that Sweden's municipalities would be obliged to receive new arrivals and that the often moderate-governed municipalities that had said no to this could no longer do so. This was welcome and important, although it was too late. Had the change been made in the past, it is not certain that we would have needed the reform of the EBO that we are now doing. The fact that there are still municipalities that oppose the residence law is another issue, but nevertheless worrying. Madam President, I would like Now we are presenting the reform. This means that the particularly vulnerable areas that exist should be excluded if the municipalities in which the areas are located want to do so. The new arrivals who settle there will not receive a daily allowance from the Finnish Immigration Service. The compensation is, by the way, low. That too is another issue. It has not been raised in a man's mass of years, and there are problems with it as well. We will need to monitor developments closely. With this, Madam President, we from the Green Party support the report and call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-953	Madam President, I would like Soon the construction of the mobile network of the future, 5G, will begin. In Sweden, as in many other countries, there is a legitimate concern about who will build and own the network. In practice, the network owner will be responsible for all electronic communications in the future. What if data gets into the wrong hands? How can we ensure that networks, base stations and other components are completely safe? How can updates be made in a completely safe way? Add to that that we want to expand the future network so that it works well throughout the country and we understand that 5G is a complex issue. In order to address the safety aspects of the construction of the 5G network, the Government has presented the proposal Protection of Sweden's safety during radio use. The proposal proposes amendments to the Act on Electronic Communications and the Act on Publicity and Confidentiality. Authorisation to use radio transmitters shall only be granted provided that radio use will not be liable to harm Sweden's safety. It shall be possible to withdraw authorisation or change permit conditions for safety reasons. The Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces must be able to appeal against decisions on permit issues. These legislative amendments are proposed to enter into force on 1 January next year. The proposal in itself is perfectly reasonable. This means in practice that the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Security Service can participate in the design of the criteria for our telecommunications networks, now the most current 5G network. It is important to have high safety standards on future telecommunications networks, and the Swedish Armed Forces and Säpo are our expert authorities in this area. It is also important that there is an opportunity to intervene against radio use that can cause harm to Sweden's safety. But what I miss in the proposal is the question of how we create the most secure and rational solution. Radio spectrum is a common resource for wireless transmission of information. The expansion of 5G is not only a development of the 4G network, but also a system that allows the development of completely new services, which in turn requires communication solutions that are not dependent on or at risk of being influenced by foreign actors. A successful roll-out of the 5G network also creates the conditions for increased electrification in the transport sector and better communication in rural areas. The development of the 5G network thus has the potential to lay the foundations for innovative and climate-smart transport and to reduce the gap between city and country. We in the Left Party believe that given strategic and security motives strengthen the reasons why it is the state that should own and be responsible for the expansion. That's why we've put forward our motion that it's the state that's supposed to be the owner of the 5G network. With the state as owner, the conditions can be strengthened to give priority to necessary and sustainable future investments over the short-term profit interests of private operators and to ensure national security interests. A state-owned network is the most socio-economically rational system, since digital infrastructure is equivalent to other important infrastructure in society. With state ownership of future radio networks, licences for the use of radio transmitters can be determined entirely in accordance with the government's new proposal, but with the great advantage that it is the state that owns the network. Moreover, State ownership does not close the door to expansion through external operators where the State does not have the capacity to expand itself. This debate, Madam President, concerns the safety of radio use. It is important because an increasing part of our lives is taking place in the radio, as data that is transported from one person to another via telecommunications networks. One complicating factor is that a lot of data can fall into the wrong hands, such as where we are, who we communicate with, where we visit online, sometimes even what we say and what we write. American whistleblower Edward Snowden has thoroughly told us about this, how states have monitored their citizens and how companies such as Facebook, Google and Apple have willingly collaborated in mass surveillance. If it was surveillance from the state that in 2013 was the big problem, it is rather private mega companies' mapping of our lives that today is the big threat. Then it is not insignificant who owns the network in which we communicate. On the contrary, it is absolutely fundamental. As this is a debate on security, I find it strange that more Members are not getting involved in who should own this absolutely fundamental network. Opponents of expanding the 5G network jointly argue that there is a state monopoly and that monopolies as such are not good. But what is the difference with now? When the 5G network is expanded, we get two or three parallel networks owned by a few large telecom companies. The companies have an interest: to deliver profits to their shareholders. It is a profit that will be paid with high costs for users, that is, all of us. Some areas are simply best suited as natural monopolies. It is difficult to build two roads or two railways in parallel and next to each other. That is why national roads and railways are owned by an owner, and almost always it is the state. The same logic should also apply to the telecommunications network. Let us build the networks together and well throughout the country, without profit! Next, telecom companies may pay to use the capacity of these networks. Madam President, I would like Another objection to allowing the state to build the future 5G network is that building a new telecommunications network costs a lot of money. The Left Party asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to take a closer look at it. The price tag for new transmitters, masts, base stations, data capacity and other things needed to expand the 5G network would land at SEK 3.9 billion. Furthermore, if we want better coverage in rural areas than the 4G network today, it would cost an estimated 1 to 2 billion more. Compared with other infrastructure investments. Bypass Stockholm costs SEK 40 billion, and high-speed trains cost SEK 230 billion. Then 4 – 6 billion SEK to a good and modern 5G network is no insurmountable sum. In addition, the money would be paid back many times when operators are allowed to hire themselves online. 5G is therefore a good deal for the Swedish people. In this report, however, the majority of committees responds jointly to the Left Party's proposal for 5G, which calls for a balanced precautionary approach to public sector investment in broadband infrastructure. It is also written that the model that we have now applied for a while, with commercial operators who are expanding digital infrastructure, has worked well. I find these answers interesting. Of course, if you think today's expansion is good, the system of things does not need to be changed. But if you ask anyone, especially in rural areas, you will probably hear that they are rather dissatisfied with today's access to broadband and mobile networks. The prices don't impress either. Mobile telephony and the internet are expensive in Sweden. The talk of prudence really says everything. The state should be careful and stand back in the expansion – why? Perhaps there is a risk that it will simply be too good if we allow the state to expand the 5G network. In order to get the safest and socio-economic best telecommunications network in the whole country, we should leave the state as owner of 5G. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to emphasise that I naturally support all the reservations expressed by the Left Party in the report. In particular, however, I would like to ask for reservation 1 on the order of appeal which we in the Left Party have in common with S, MP and C. Please note that this is an example of a so-called false majority in committee! M, KD, SD and L have got this proposal through in the Transport Committee, but in this House they are in a minority compared to us who have written the reservation. I therefore call on all Members to be present tomorrow and vote on reservation 1.
i-KQwaCioprnroem9Koqxxdm	Madam President, I would like Today we are dealing with the bill Protection of Sweden's safety during radio use. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of S, C, V and MP, and otherwise for the proposal contained in the report. 30 years ago, the Berlin Wall fell. The hope that peace had come into the world was very great. I remember the joy many shared with me. We seriously believed that we no longer had to compete for who would have the most or, for that matter, technologically most advanced weapons. Many with me hoped that we would now begin to use the money to eradicate hunger or disease. Unfortunately, Madam President, it seems after that day that we have gone in the wrong direction in the world. We see old powers armed, but we also see new powers come into existence. Like all other nations, Sweden needs to protect its interests. The 5G network opens up a number of new opportunities for Sweden. We will see new services being created, but also new businesses being set up. This technology will help our citizens to get care that they get by using a self-driving car. You therefore understand that a second delay in the mobile network is not very good. All the data that will be created needs to be protected. Our citizens should be able to feel confident that no foreign powers are spying on them or, for that matter, threatening the security of our nation. As Sweden's highest decision-making body, we cannot sit passively and watch the world change without doing anything. Madam President, I would like The bill is about all parts of the 5G network that can threaten national security regardless of which country they come from. This makes it possible to exclude components, suppliers, operators or service personnel that do not meet adequate safety standards. If there are components in the equipment that do, PTS should not allow these operators in Sweden. Important to remember is that PTS can also withdraw licences if you see that operators violate the law. You shouldn't be able to hide behind renting frequency from or to someone else. Authorisations may be revoked and permit conditions changed immediately if radio use has caused damage to Sweden's safety or if radio use will cause such damage. It is about ensuring that our citizens have the best possible protection. Madam President, I would like I do not think that the parties have different views on this issue. We are quite in agreement on what needs to be done for the good of Sweden and its citizens. What separates us is how to appeal PTS's decision. One side believes that it is best for the government to deal with appeals. The other one thinks our courts should do it. Under the legislation in question, decisions are appealed to the Administrative Court. So that's the normal path to trouble. The testing of licences to use radio transmitters will be assessed in a number of different points where safety is only one aspect. It would be difficult to appeal certain parts to the Government, while others would be appealed to the Administrative Court. There we share the Legal Affairs Committee's response to the bill. Madam President, I would like 5G is only part of total cybersecurity. The whole digital ecosystem needs to be seen from a more security perspective. At the moment, the Government Office is preparing to supplement the new Security Act. It's welcome. Madam President, I would like Once again, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1 from S, MP, C and V.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-984	Madam President, I would like As Mr Denis says, we essentially agree with the Government's proposal that we should have enhanced security in the development of future telecommunications networks. What we in the Left Party object to is that we do not build the network jointly. You Social Democrats have a history of leaning back on the development of basic infrastructure: railways, roads, fixed telephony and other things. Many times it has been you who have made the important decisions on the financing and expansion of this infrastructure. But now you believe that it is private telecommunications companies that are going to expand the future 5G network. Then we can compare with how broadband expansion has gone so far. There is nothing that impresses me, especially in sparsely populated areas, from my point of view. You don't expand to the extent that you should. I therefore find it strange that the Social Democrats do not believe that it is the state that should own the future 5G network and be responsible for financing and expansion. Why, Denis Begic, have the Social Democrats released the state as the central factor in the development of socially critical infrastructure?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-988	Madam President, I would like I thank Jens Holm for the question. What Jens Holm says about how to build once is true. But it was just once. These are completely different times we have today, and those times say that there are more efficient ways to build infrastructure, if we also have in place a system to protect and control. The 4G network was also built by market players. It has served us well and will continue to do so. The new extension will also do so. When we take decisions like this on the protection of Sweden's security, the state has control over what will be built and how it will affect us. Perhaps there has once been a need for the state to ensure that everything is built, but today we see that there are market players who take these things very seriously and, among other things, give us the protection that we need. It is true that we are not everywhere in Sweden when it comes to broadband expansion. We haven't reached the targets yet. The objectives for expansion remain. We now see that we may need to make some other and different decisions in order to expand all the way. What's it gonna look like? Is it just fiber or not? In a report that will eventually come, we have a discussion about whether it should be an upper-spectrum. In that case, it is the state that should have the above perspective. Where should we build first? I think we're doing everything in the right order.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-991	Madam President, I would like It may be that Denis Begic and I make different assessments of how successful private telecommunications companies have been to expand broadband in Sweden. In sparsely populated areas, I don't think it impresses me at all. Even though we have plowed hundreds of millions of dollars into subsidies for this, we still have not received it. We can take such a thing as roaming. If you travel to another country, you can roama on different telephone networks. If you are in Sweden and want to make sure that you can really call everywhere and receive data everywhere, you may need to have two mobile phones. You have a network that works in one place, but up in Norrland you need Telia and another network. I think that in itself shows how dysfunctional the system is. Then there is the security aspect. Here I am really interested to know what the Social Democrats think, because this issue is really about security in the development of telecommunications networks. Which believes Denis Begic is the safest for the state of Sweden: that we own the future 5G network in our own right, just as we own the railways and national roads, or that we let an external operator build, own and operate the network? What is the best thing from a strict security perspective – that the state owns it or that we let private companies own it?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-994	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the latter. If there are control stations on buildings, I see no problem with someone else building and the market solving the problems we have. For this we need decisions of this kind in Parliament. There will be more decisions that we will have to make, as I mentioned in my main speech, including what the government is working on regarding the Protection Act. I do not think this is problematic, and I do not believe that the state is better than private operators. Then we can have different views on whether or not the broadband rollout is complete and how it has gone or not. The fact is, we're the best in the world. In fact, we still have about 86% coverage in this country. The fact is that we have not succeeded all the way in rural areas. There are a lot of different reasons for that, and it has been discussed in a lot of different directions. We need to be stronger at continuing to do this in order to have this extension ready as soon as possible. But we have our target until 2025. That's when we should have done it, and I'm pretty sure we will.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-996	Madam President, I would like We're in a shift of technology. The possibilities of digitalisation should be, or rather must we, harnessed. Digitalisation affects all parts of society, and the development of technology that we see means a large increase in data sent in our networks. There are many of us who are keen that the next generation of mobile networks, the so-called 5G network, are rapidly rolled out, as much of the technology we will need to use requires higher data transfer speeds, larger data sets, better quality for mobile devices and so on. We could talk a lot about this, Madam President, but today it is about how to protect Sweden's safety when using the radio in this technology shift. The security situation in Sweden's surrounding world has deteriorated dramatically over the past few years. Moreover, it is no longer just a question of traditional military threats that Sweden must be able to face. It is a complex threat picture where things such as misinformation, cyber attacks, economic pressure and access to energy can be used to influence and destabilise other countries. The rapid development of technology is in many ways good. It simplifies our everyday lives and enables smooth and effective solutions in many areas. Sweden must be better able to use the possibilities of digitalisation than we are today. If we're going to have a chance to be the best in the world, as the government writes... and I agree... it's going to have to go faster. But the ever-increasing dependence on technology and especially IT also creates vulnerabilities in society. In principle, all systems of social importance are currently dependent on functioning IT systems. This applies to everything from electricity and water supply to logistics chains and payment flows. By hitting these systems, a potential opponent can create great confusion in our society. The awareness of the threats and our readiness to face them must be improved. On several occasions in recent years we have seen major shortcomings in Sweden's management of IT and information security. This applies not least to the safety accident at Transportstyrelsen 2017. As I said, the introduction of the 5G network will represent further steps towards an increasingly digitised society, with all the opportunities and risks it entails. The Moderates have therefore launched a follow-up exercise in which we highlight important safety issues that need to be taken into account in the implementation of the 5G network. For example, we want a broad review of cyber and information security legislation to identify shortcomings and propose improvements. We would like to see a specific follow-up to the application of the new rules to radio transmitters. That is the report we are discussing today. We also want the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces to have the opportunity to appeal granted permits or withdraw permits to the government and not to court. Madam President, I would like These are central issues for Sweden's security, and then it should be the government that makes the ultimate decision. The Moderates' proposal on the organisation of the bodies has also been supported by a united Committee on Defence in the opinion issued by the Committee on Defence to the Committee on Transport. That is why I think it is good that the Transport Committee has now made an announcement to the Government about the possibility for the responsible authorities to appeal to the Government. I hope, of course, that the House will make this wise decision tomorrow. I therefore support the committee's proposal in that part. Safety culture must be improved at all levels of society. Responsible authorities must have the resources and the right tools to deal with security challenges. The processes and contacts between different actors must work. The Moderates have long pushed the issue of strengthened cybersecurity in Sweden. We were the first to point out the need for cybersecurity centres to work on security issues for both public and private actors. Now the government has announced that such a centre will be introduced next year. The Moderates have also highlighted the need for a National Security Council to have a central role that can take on a broad cross-sectoral responsibility for security issues. This proposal has also been supported by the Parliament's Constitutional Committee. Through our request to give the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces the opportunity to appeal against granted or withdrawn permits, another important step is being taken towards ensuring that the responsible authorities are better able to resolve their tasks in order to strengthen Sweden's security. I will briefly say a few words about a common Nordic line. There is currently a lack of a common line among the Nordic countries on how to view the safety risks associated with suppliers of the 5G network. We think that this is a shortcoming, especially in view of our high ambitions for the Nordic countries to have enhanced cooperation on security and defence issues including strengthening cyber security. Therefore, we think it would be a good opportunity to strengthen this proposal in connection with this proposal and to urge the government to act because the Nordic countries have a common line in this. Madam President, I would like With this, I would ask you to accept reservation 3.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-1008	Madam President, I would like 5G is something that will open up for new technologies and connections. More and more will depend on the wireless, and the 5G network will open up to industry in a completely new way but also for connection across the country for cars, tractors, trucks and also much more. Digitalization is here to stay, and new applications across the country will develop at a raging rate. For us in the Center Party it is important that when the 5G network is to start to roll out it should happen both in the city but of course also in the countryside. At the same time, however, when this new infrastructure is to be rolled out over Sweden, it is important that protection can be guaranteed in order that social information does not come into the hands of foreign powers. Digitalisation presents both threats and opportunities. The threats that exist must be discussed, and action against them must be taken. In the time and environment in which we live, security in radio use and in the digital environment will be important aspects. New ways of accessing information from other countries can be a threat from the digitalisation that is taking place. At the same time, however, we must not be afraid of digitalisation and of the 5G network, but must constantly see opportunities with the network. The basic principle of authorisation testing under the Swedish Electronic Communications Act, abbreviated LEK, is that the applicant for authorisation to use radio transmitters should be granted this if the conditions are met. These conditions include that radio use constitutes an efficient use of the frequency space and that it is assumed that radio use will not interfere with the frequency space required for the activities exempted from the permit requirement. However, neither in the case of licensing nor later, under the current regime, there is a possibility to take special account of Sweden's safety. Much related to this proposal is technical but very important to take a position on the basis that this new technology will begin to roll out over Sweden. Now that this new technology is to be rolled out, it is also important that both the protection of national security and the integrity of the individual citizen can be taken into account and that both can be handled. In the bill, the government emphasises that certain confidentiality needs to be disclosed so that the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Security Service can exchange information with each other. Given that there are suspicions that national security can be damaged, it is very important that these bodies should be able to exchange information with each other. The Center Party is behind the content of the bill but at the same time wants to stress that it is of the utmost importance that the government should return to the Riksdag if something in the bill in the future needs to be reviewed or revised taking into account Sweden's safety. Madam President, I would like With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-1016	Madam President, I would like 5G is important for citizens and business. All future studies show that new technologies, whether we are talking about the refrigerators, cars or home services of the future, will depend on good digital support. We also see that the roll-out of broadband is taking place far too slowly, and we see that broadband has first and foremost reached those living in larger urban areas and cities. In rural areas, there is still about 50% of people without broadband, which puts these people and entrepreneurs at a disadvantage. 5G is a new technology that will be able to overcome some of these problems and speed up work to ensure that the whole country lives on the same good conditions. While 5G will make things easier for our citizens and create new conditions for business, there are safety risks that need to be taken into account. Individual companies and operators may collect information that violates the privacy of individual citizens or jeopardise national security. It is therefore important that we get this law in place so that procurements of 5G can take place in such a way that our individual and national security interests are also met. Madam President, I would like 5G is a technology, but we need a strategy that captures several areas. During the Victorian era, Europe's population was about 22% of the world's population. During this period we used the modern technology of the time in the form of steam engine, steamboat, steam train and telegraph to build up an international trade which in practice created the welfare that the West has lived on throughout the 20th century. Today, China has around 22% of the world's population. They use modern technology to build a new silk road. They buy into ports, and they build up a modern and modern telegraph, using today's 5G technology. Although all of this will lead to increased trade and, in the long term, more prosperity, it is not possible to turn a blind eye to China's changing strategy and acting aggressively against individual countries in recent years. We are forced to deal with this. Although this law is neutral between countries and companies, it cannot be ignored that, among other things, the new foreign policy strategies of China and Russia are causing concern. Madam President, I would like In my opinion, in order to further increase security within the 5G system, it is important that we work together both within the Nordic and Baltic countries and within the EU to create a good and secure infrastructure. Madam President, I would like When you have several authorities to take advantage of different interests, there is always a risk that you will end up in a situation where the individual authorities do not agree. In these situations, it is important that there should not be another authority that overtakes the other authorities. In my opinion, it is important that any appeal be made by the government when it comes to legislation that is intended to protect individuals and the nation. The Christian Democrats have therefore supported the announcement that the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces should urgently review the possibility for the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces to appeal to the Government to grant or withdraw a permit when justified on the basis of Sweden's security. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like In our opinion, it is important that we have a good follow-up on how this law will work. We therefore call for our own announcement and for reservation No 2 on follow-up and review.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-1024	Madam President, I would like This discussion is mostly about security. Let's talk about the most secure telecommunications network we can build. According to the Left Party, it is that the state has it built and that the state owns it. Why is it so much better that we have state ownership? When, for example, components are to be replaced, we know what components are being inserted. It is impossible for wiretaps and other devices to be inserted. If we have an external player – perhaps a global telecom company whose owners may even rule a dictatorship in the world, as I know – we are essentially losing that control. We in the Left Party believe that the roll-out of the 5G network is like other important infrastructure in society; that is something we should do jointly. That's why the state should take this responsibility. Why do the Christian Democrats not think so?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-1027	Madam President, I would like I really think that the Left Party question is much more exciting than just dismissing it by saying that you don't think or think anything. For my part, I have often reasoned in different contexts about the question: What is a natural monopoly? And what is a non-natural monopoly? How do you look at the railroad? Should it be state owned in the case of the runway itself, or should it be owned by private operators? For my part, for example, I can imagine that the Banverket would be a separate authority that takes care of the track, and that would be the way to sell SJ. Why should the state operate on the track? The exact same reasoning could be applied to other physical techniques. In this particular case, we have come to the conclusion that the market is solving this, but I have a great deal of sympathy for your thinking about what the worst is. We have, as I said, come to the conclusion that, precisely in the case of 5G, the business community seems to be able to handle it well. However, we see problems, for example with other broadband that is being expanded, where rural areas have fallen behind in a way that we Christian Democrats do not appreciate. Right now, in the law we are now taking into account, it is a safety issue more than a matter of ownership and operation. As I said, we have landed where we have landed today. But, Madam President, I think that the Left Party's question is interesting from the discussion on what is natural monopolies and not.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-1032	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for that answer. To me, it is quite clear: if we build new rail, we do not build three rail lines parallel to each other just because we think it is so incredibly important to have three competing rail networks. I think the comparison with the future 5G network is quite relevant. I think that building a state network that operators can then hire on is quite logical and the most rational and reasonable in this context. But then there is the security dimension. It was really the one I asked about, although I appreciated the answer from Magnus Jacobsson. Nevertheless, I think it is a welcoming and reasoning response that is not stuck in any ideological position. From a strict security perspective – what does Magnus Jacobsson think provides the best conditions for ensuring our safety? A network built by a global company based in another country and then owned by a telecom company that we also don't have as much control over or a network that the state has built and which is jointly owned – which will be the safest network?
i-78f02675b5b2464b-1036	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that it is an ideological perspective that I represent. We Christian Democrats believe that the state should in some sense be strong – strong enough to create community. Then there are some things where the state, for example, should act. However, there is a technical difference between this network and the construction of a rail, motorway or telecommunications network with copper, as we did in the past. Then it is difficult to go forward with different actors. But when it comes to 4G and 5G, which mainly works with airborne technology, one can well imagine that on a transmitter there are different companies' 5G technology. So there is a technical difference here that makes at least me land differently. But the basic position is that we should have a strong state and that the state should be able to guarantee protection for citizens and individuals while the state should be able to guarantee itself protection. The second question, Madam President, is more specific. Unfortunately, I regard it as rhetorical. It is clear that as the honourable Member asks the question, it is probably safest if we own everything ourselves at all times. But that's not really what reality looks like. We are now adopting a law which will also oblige those who bid to ensure that the security is properly kept. So I think you win two things out of the best of worlds. We gain security, and that is why we bring out the law and have done so quickly. I think, moreover, that the government has done this nicely when they have spoken to us in the opposition. We also win the second in the best of worlds: a market that can roll out technology quickly. I do not see, therefore, that the question in this context becomes relevant; it becomes the most rhetorical one.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-1042	Madam President, I would like Digitalisation has brought great opportunities to society with improved communications and the development of new services. It has gone fast, from the Internet's impact in the 90's to our mobiles becoming smart. I'm not that old, if I may say so myself, but I also remember when we talked about maybe sometime in the future we should read our newspapers on albums, like the one I have with me here. It sounded kind of like science fiction. It was impossible to even imagine which world the smart mobile phone and the faster mobile connection with first 3G and then 4G would achieve. But now we are facing the launch of 5G, the fifth generation mobile network. This will mean that larger amounts of data can be transmitted at a faster speed. The potential for new services is great. This applies not only to individuals with connected homes and things like autonomous vehicles, but also to the industry with sensors, control and security systems and remotely controlled robots. This also applies, not least, to society with the possibility of, for example, new health services. But the new technology also means increased vulnerability. If we can experience that we are completely disconnected from the world and everyday life without connection, it is nothing compared to what can happen if the connection falls or is manipulated in a network where more and more processes depend on stable networks. With society's digitalisation, there is reduced risk tolerance and new demands to manage risks and vulnerabilities. Digitisation also carries risks and threats of a partly unknown nature. We cannot yet imagine them. This poses major security challenges that can be very complex. That's why the government bill is important. It proposes, among other things, that in order to obtain authorisation to use radio transmitters and to obtain consent for the transfer or rental of such licences, it must be assumed that radio use will not cause harm to Sweden's safety. Authorisations must be subject to conditions relating to requirements that are relevant to Sweden's safety. Authorisations may be revoked or permit conditions changed immediately if it can be assumed that radio use has caused damage to Sweden's safety or if it can be assumed that radio use will cause such damage. The proposal also means that decisions under the law should be subject to appeal to the Administrative Court, which is the normal appeal procedure. Instead, the new Conservative bloc with the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, and also the Liberals, wants the government to settle appeals. It would be regrettable if that were the case. Such appeals may put the government in a difficult political situation in the event of an appeal. Then it is also not certain that the best decisions are taken either from a security or foreign policy point of view. In fact, when this type of appeal is brought to a political level, the issue immediately becomes politicised and a question of diplomacy and foreign policy rather than the rule of law. The Green Party welcomes digitalisation and the opportunities it offers for a more sustainable society, but we stress the importance of dealing with security issues in a responsible manner. I therefore call for the approval of Amendment No 1 and, otherwise, for the proposal in the proposal.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-1051	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats believe that whether it is physical infrastructure or electronic infrastructure, it is important that we protect it. Sweden is facing a very exciting time with increasing digitalisation that connects society and provides greater opportunities for autonomy, among other things. Society is increasingly dependent on technologies connected to the Internet via wireless digital infrastructure. It will therefore be important for this infrastructure to be protected, in order to protect the integrity of people and to avoid threats to national security. The bill Protection of Sweden's safety during radio use is basically good, but we thought it was a small part of the bill that needed to be adjusted. The Transport Committee believes that it should be possible for Säpo and the Swedish Armed Forces to appeal the granting or withdrawal of authorisation to use radio transmitters to the Government. In the bill, the proposal was that it could be appealed to a court of law. We Swedish democrats believe that we should not be afraid to take uncomfortable political issues into our hands. We believe that the government should be able to make an urgent departure and be able to make decisions about Sweden's security. I am very surprised that the government parties do not want to endorse this announcement. The Committee on Defence has been given an opinion on the matter and recommends that appeals be made to the government and not to the courts. Madam President, I would like I will not prolong the debate, but I support the proposal in report TU4 Protection of Swedish security in radio use and refusal of reservations.
i-78f02675b5b2464b-1059	Madam President, I would like We are debating here today, as you will hear, the protection of Sweden's safety in radio use. Sweden is at the forefront of digitalisation and digital maturity. Today, 98% of all children and young people have a mobile phone and see it as a matter of course to have access to the Internet. More and more things that we use in our everyday lives are connected – houses, electricity meters, washing machines, cars and so on. Within the transport system alone, there is a huge potential for increased road safety and more efficient transport through fast communication between cars and through the creation of systems linking customers and accessible vehicles. In almost all areas of society, we can make better use of our resources through connected systems. For all of this to work, an effective way of communicating is needed. 5G is the latest in this development, which allows us to get faster data transmission while more people and things can be connected. But, Madam President, while there are great advantages to the system, we should not ignore the risks of increasing the interconnection of many parts of our society. 5G increases the risk that someone can map large parts of our society down to individuals, making us more vulnerable to foreign and domestic forces who want to do harm. Critical services will increasingly depend on wireless communications and therefore an IT incident can have devastating consequences. The risk already exists today, but it increases with the 5G induction. Liberals are technology optimists and welcome the introduction of 5G into society. We believe that it increases Sweden's competitiveness and can facilitate people's everyday lives. At the same time, we welcome the Government's proposal that permits for radio use to provide 5G in Sweden, for example, should be conditional on requirements that look at national security interests. It will be an addition to current regulations that are designed to prevent cyber incidents. The proposal provides the necessary transparency for the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces. However, Madam President, it is the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency that decides on licences for radio use. There, the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces, who are responsible for national security, will be able to appeal the permit granting. Here the Liberals have a different position from that put forward by the government. We welcome the decision taken in the Committee on Defence, which is, of course, the ones who should know the security policy aspects best in Parliament. And what we are debating here today is precisely this: protection of Sweden's safety during radio use. It is therefore interesting to note that a united defence committee – the Left Party, the Social Democrats, the Environmental Party, the Center Party, we Liberals, the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats – is behind the decision that, due to the security policy situation, an appeal should be handled not by the Administrative Court or the Administrative Court of Appeal but by the Government. The Liberals therefore hope that all parties in this House, when this is up to decision, will follow their party's decision in the Committee on Defence and vote for an appeal to be dealt with by the government. Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Liberals, I would like to support the committee's proposal, including the announcement that an appeal should be handled by the government for safety reasons. At the same time, I would like to express our appreciation for the rest of the Government's proposal.
