i-cb800e623166233e-5	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating Category 22 Communications in the draft state budget. The Left Party has presented its own draft budget, a plan for equality and green transition, where we invest far more than the government in building a more equal and sustainable Sweden. That is why we are abstaining from the forthcoming decision in this area of expenditure. Instead, I refer to our specific opinion, which is contained in the report. Mr President, I would like to This is an important area of expenditure with expenditure of just over SEK 60 billion. It is about important efforts to reduce emissions from the transport sector, for communications in our country to work and for us to achieve the goal of a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply. Not least, it is about achieving our target of reducing emissions from the transport sector by at least 70% by 2030. Unfortunately, at present we are far from that goal. We need to reduce our emissions by about 8% annually in order to achieve this target. Today, however, emissions from the transport sector are not decreasing, but are increasing. This is an important objective because transport accounts for about one third of Sweden's total emissions. It is also important because the world's climate experts have again noted that it is very urgent if we are to keep global warming below 1.5 degrees Celsius. The new EU Green Deal and the COP 25 climate summit in Madrid also give clear signals that the transport sector must change. We only have this planet, and it sets a framework for our actions. If we don't reach our climate targets, we're endangering good lives for our children and grandchildren. It is therefore a very important issue. However, it is perfectly possible to achieve our climate targets in the field of transport. In this area of expenditure, it is about making public transport cheaper and better and shifting freight transport from road to rail and shipping. We also need to increase passenger transport by rail, and then we need to invest more in both new rail and maintenance of existing rail. We need to build high-speed lines and connect our Swedish railway lines with the European ones. We need to give SJ new owner directives where they are required to drive night trains down to the continent and to arrange foreign tickets. In addition, a one-sided profit focus must be replaced by driving more trains at reasonable fares. The market experiment in railway maintenance must end. The aim shall be to obtain a top-class railway in terms of punctuality, service and frequency. It will, of course, cost, but it can be financed, including through increased air taxes and charges on long-distance truck transport. We also need to see cycling as a mode of transport. The cycle infrastructure will be expanded into coherent networks, and we need more bicycle parking and loan cycle systems. We must also ensure that bicycles can be taken on trains. Our passenger car fleet needs electrification. That is why the Left Party wants a ban on the sale of new cars powered by fossil fuels. Overall, the car norm must be broken. The Left Party does not want to build new motorways, which increase motorism and emissions. Our cities need to be planned for walking, cycling and public transport, not according to the needs of the car. Biofuels will be needed for heavy transport, but here too electrification will be necessary. More investment needs to be made to create sustainable shipping with more sustainable fuels. The role of the Swedish Maritime Administration as a company with constantly increasing fees is not sustainable and makes the necessary transformation difficult. The Swedish Maritime Administration should be financed like other authorities, mainly through grants from the state budget. Mr President, I would like to These were some examples of issues that range within the area of expenditure we are now debating and in which we in the Left Party have put forward concrete proposals for improvements. The draft budget presented by the S-MP government, supported by the Center Party and the Liberals, does not meet the objectives that the Left Party wants to see in this area. Sweden simply needs to invest more in the transformation of the transport sector. That is why the Left Party allocates SEK 5.8 billion more than the government in this area of expenditure. Yes, SEK 5.8 billion is more than any other party invests in this area. It is about more money for public transport, both for investment and for operation so that it will be cheaper, easier and better to travel collectively. In its alternative draft budget, the Left Party also allocates more money to railway maintenance and the expansion of new railway lines. The Left also allocates more money to investments in bicycle infrastructure and to environmental compensation for rail freight transport so that freight transport can be transferred from road to rail. We also propose a completely new conversion aid so that people who convert their fossil-powered car to ethanol or biogas can get support from the state for making their car more sustainable. In addition, we propose a completely unique investment in the supply of skills for the railway industry. We need more track technicians, electrical technicians, signal engineers and more track welders. That is why this initiative is important. Mr President, I would like to We are therefore spending more money than any other party on the transformation of the transport sector. We put more than the Moderates and Christian Democrats, who only spend 300 million SEK more than the government. We put more than the Swedish Democrats, who put 2.6 billion more than the government. Of course, we are also adding more than the Centre Party and the Liberals, who are behind the government's inadequate budget. These are only figures, of course, but they say something about the parties' priorities. The left side is clear: those who pollute will pay more, and those who earn a lot will contribute more to the climate change. That is why we are increasing taxes and charges on emissions and capital and on high income earners. In this way, we can finance the fair climate change. We call it a plan for equality and green transition.
i-cb800e623166233e-27	Mr President, I would like to The budget debates stand as rods on the slopes this time of year in this House. The government parties, and new for this year also the Liberals and the Center Party, defend the government's policy, and the opposition explains why their respective budgets had been better for Sweden. I'm not going to disappoint you. I'll explain what the Moderates are prioritising, and I'll complain a little bit about the government. I was going to take my point of departure in the transport policy objective, which everyone here thinks is good. It is about ensuring a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. That's good. In terms of digitalisation, Sweden should be the best in the world to use the opportunities of digitalisation, and Sweden should have world-class broadband. That's good, too. Nor do I disagree with the government that we need to speed up to ensure that Sweden is equipped for a fossil-free future, as stated in the budget. But words are not enough to get there. We must also see action. Regular words in the budget bill are: started work, a long-term plan is to be developed, the government prepares, the government will follow up and the government will invite to talks. Mr President, I would like to The transport sector faces major challenges. We need to break the dependence on fossil fuels, and we need to promote technology development and use more rail and shipping to achieve our climate targets. We all know that. Then I can't help but marvel at, or be disappointed in, all of these... prepares... and... follows up. What has happened to the climate action plan, which was supposed to have been completed in September, which must come before the end of the year and which we have not yet seen. Of course, there are a few days left until New Year's. It is now known what the Moderates think about high-speed trains and the reasons why we say no. Nevertheless, I am surprised that there has been no invitation to talk about high-speed trains, at least to the parties saying yes. The government also seems satisfied with its digitisation policy. It is written that Sweden has a good starting position, but how long will we have it? We have fallen behind, and we see a large and increased digital exclusion in people. Add to this that our public authorities in Sweden are by no means exploiting the potential that exists in digitalisation. In this respect, the government must show greater momentum and show that it is committed and prioritises the issue. Mr President, I would like to A functioning infrastructure lays the foundation for jobs and growth, and this is a prerequisite for Sweden and Swedish companies to be able to cope well in an increasingly harsh global world. Our transport should be climate-smart, sustainable and competitive, and one should be able to rely on them to work. It's about re-establishing the social contract. Transport must work. Unfortunately, this is my last budget debate – and the first too, for that matter – in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, but I have often heard during the year that we should not put modes of transport against each other. We all say that a little bit to man, is my opinion, but I actually think that is what many people are doing right now. To be honest, I think that the debate on high-speed trains has taken far too much time from the political debate. I am concerned that this hinders the development and planning of other important infrastructure projects. That is why I believe that many people are putting the railways against other modes of transport. We should talk about how we can electrify domestic aviation. We should talk about how to electrify our roads. We should talk about how we can lay the foundations for a functioning fossil-free infrastructure. We should talk about research, entrepreneurship and innovation – in short, we should talk about the future. Instead, this government has put a big, wet blanket over talking about high - speed trains. The Swedish National Audit Office recently said that we should press the stop button for this project, which the government unfortunately does not listen to. It is serious and regrettable. Sweden is an elongated country. We want it to be easy and easy for people to commute, we want companies to be able to transport their goods from north to south and we want our roads and railways to work. As we know, the transport sector accounts for one third of CO2 emissions. I have said this before, but if we are to reach the climate targets, we need to speed up progress towards more CO2-free transport. In this, electric transport will play an important role, even if it is not everything. I am therefore a little distressed when I read in the budget bill what the government writes about electric roads. There are six lines, which end with: a long-term plan... to be developed. ..................................................... For us Moderates, this is not enough. The Moderates give priority to electrification of our transports. We want to increase the number of test distances, and we want to make sure that the electrification of our network goes faster. I realize there are obstacles along the way. There is a need for common standards. But that must not prevent politics from daring to step forward and show what we want. There are estimates that electrifying the major roads in the triangle Stockholm–Gothenburg– Malmö would cost 28 billion. I cannot help but compare this with what high-speed trains are supposed to cost – we know they will cost several hundred billion – compared to 28 billion. I think it's time we had the courage to prioritise if we are to reach the climate targets. With a moderate budget, we could have stepped up the electrification of our road network, and that would have been important. Mr President, I would like to A state budget contains a lot. This also applies to our budget area. There is a lot about air pollution, noise, mail and other things, which I would of course have liked to have raised in this debate, but time is not enough for that. But I would like to say a few words about the insecurity of public transport. The budget shows that 36% of women experience insecurity in public transport. This is an increase since 2012 of 6 percent. Yesterday in this House, legal issues were debated. Of course, I am not going to repeat that debate, but I think that if we are serious about us wanting more people to go collectively, we must also invest in security. This is done, among other things, with more police officers and more security guards. Mr President, I would like to I'm hopeful. I don't believe in alarmism, but I think we're in the middle of a technology shift. A lot is happening in the conversion of our fleet. It is not just a question of electrification but also of biofuels, gas and other fossil-free fuels that will be necessary; we will not put all the eggs in the same basket. The Transport Committee visited Volvo a couple of weeks ago. Many of us have also visited Scania, and some of us visited Airbus in Toulouse last autumn. We know that all companies and the entire business community are dragging us to achieve climate change. The other day we could read in Dagens Industri about Fossil-free Sweden's and the petroleum and biofuels industry's promise that the industry's emissions in Sweden will be climate neutral by 2045. It gives me hope. The Moderates want to phase out the fossil fuels. This will be done through research, innovation, electrification of our airports and roads and by building an infrastructure for fossil-free fuels. We need a car, a plane, a bus and a boat in the future. But to get there, we need to step up our work. It takes a lot more than words. Action is also needed. Furthermore, not only sun, wind and water are required, but also nuclear power. Trains should be on time and the emissions of aircraft should be reduced. Noise and other things will disappear. In time, we'll have a fossil-free fleet. But this requires politicians who are able to prioritise and who dare to move from words to actions. There is no need for high-speed trains, but new policies and a new government are needed.
i-cb800e623166233e-49	Mr President, I would like to I think what Jessika Roswall said about public transport was important. It is nice that even the Moderates agree with us in the Left Party, for example, that more should travel collectively. It should of course be safe to travel in public transport. That's why I'm a little surprised when I look at the Moderate spending bill. I don't see a single penny more for public transport. If you want people to travel more collectively, and if you want to invest in public transport so that it becomes safer and better, then you should probably also spend more money on public transport. For example, we in the Left Party will allocate SEK 2.5 billion extra to public transport next year. I also find it interesting that the Moderates, on the one hand, are talking about the transformation of the transport sector and, on the other hand, are behind the target of reducing emissions from this sector by at least 70% by 2030. That's ten years from now. On the other hand, looking at Moderate policies in this area, one sees the abolition of the important climate economy – which has climate investments, in particular for the transformation of the transport sector – and the reduction of fuel tax, the abolition of air taxes and new subsidies to airports and new motorways.
i-cb800e623166233e-53	Mr President, I would like to We had a debate on public transport in this House this spring. Jens Holm knows that we all prioritise public transport and want to increase the percentage of people travelling. Then much of that money is planned and spent at regional level. But it is gratifying that we could actually have a little discussion here about security. I'm sure we can come back to that on another occasion. Climate change has been severely criticised. I think we should focus on things that have an effect. That is why I am provoked by the fact that there is a lot of speech from the Left Party about high-speed trains, for example, which we know is an expensive and very unprofitable investment that does not provide climate benefits here and now. Why should we not focus on what makes us actually reach the targets? I would like to add something that I may not have been clear enough about earlier. I think sometimes we focus a little too much on one thing. We need to focus on several things. I think we need to talk about biofuels in order to achieve the objectives in the short term. But then we need to talk a lot more about electrification to achieve the goals in the long term. There I wish we could also talk about how to get fossil-free electricity. So there are many things that I think the Moderates are definitely investing in to achieve the goals, not just with words but with action.
i-cb800e623166233e-57	Mr President, I would like to The emissions target for the transport sector is therefore by 2030. Then our emissions should have been reduced by at least 70%. In her speech, Ms Roswall raised issues such as investments in new nuclear power. The first nuclear reactor will not even be operational by 2030. Electrification of the transport sector will also take a long time, but it is well-lawed. I still wonder: If we are going to make this transition, how do the Moderates think we can do it in ten years with the abolition of climate action? There the Moderates must have a concrete answer, and I have not heard that yet.
i-cb800e623166233e-60	Mr President, I would like to It is not a done away with climate action. I have pointed out many things that will contribute and have an effect. I'd like to raise my eyes a little bit. If we are serious about achieving the climate goals in the world, we must make sure that we make the right investments. Sweden accounts for a very small part of the world's climate emissions. I wish we could have a little more discussion about where we can put the right resources. I would also like to say, if I can make it in the 30 seconds left, something that may not really be part of the matter. It is that if we are to get everyone in Sweden to want to participate in this transition, everyone who needs it must be able to use their car, for example to pick up their children and get to and from work. We must ensure that people are given that opportunity.
i-cb800e623166233e-63	Mr President, I would like to I heard the moderate Member talk a lot about work started, investigations and invitations to talks. If there is one thing we know about our spending area and traffic, it is of course that planning, building new ones and maintaining them are long time sequences, and we really need to look at this seriously. That's why I'm a little worried, because the Moderates left their own-initiated Swedish negotiation. Now the municipalities that have taken a hand are waiting. They left the gang talks. They threatened to leave the defense talks. The agreement of the Rural Committee lasted for one day because the Moderates no longer supported the proposal the day after the signature. And now, after three years, the energy agreement has been abandoned. How do the Moderates view long-termness? What's a handshake worth to the Moderates? How should the companies that invest know what the policy wants, what they should invest in or what the rules are? It is very short the best-before-date of the agreements you make.
i-cb800e623166233e-67	Mr President, I would like to We will start with the energy agreement, which is the closest thing we can do. This was a few days ago. It was a necessary and important agreement that we reached. Most of that agreement is fulfilled. As we talked about and I put a lot of focus on, there is a great need for electrification of the transport sector. Many other sectors also need to be electrified. Then it is regrettable that the government does not listen to the needs that exist and does not want to talk about, for example, how we reach fossil-free energy and then, among other things, talk about nuclear energy. It's nothing weird. We have to see the present as it is. When the agreement was reached, there was something else. I definitely think you should trust the Moderates. Of course I think so, because we have a long-term plan. Now we are not in government, as AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg knows, but we are conducting opposition policies to get long-term rules for our companies and our citizens. That is our purpose. So I do not really understand the question. I would like us to be able to focus instead on how to achieve the climate and transport policy objectives.
i-cb800e623166233e-72	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Jessika. Or thank you to Jessika Roswall, the moderate Member standing opposite me, I might say. My point is that when we adopt these major plans in our committee too, it is about planning. It is about long-term conditions and rules of play for both industry and companies when building. It's about maintenance and construction. For me, the question is therefore very relevant: if you have very short best-before dates on agreements and can easily break promises, how can we cooperate on the big, important, long-term issues that we deal with in the Transport Committee?
i-cb800e623166233e-75	Mr President, I would like to I shall say something again about the high-speed train. It was indeed a Swedish negotiation, which was right and proper then. But you have to look at the outside world and look at what it looks like – this also applies to the energy agreement. We recently received a report from the Swedish National Audit Office showing that you should pull the emergency brake. One should not continue to plan this because it does not have an effect, is too expensive and a lot of other things that are addressed in the report. I think it's a show of strength and power that the Moderates dare to say, no, this isn't right. That is not the way to use our tax money, and it is not right for the environment. That is why we must dare to say no. I would like the government to have done so on this issue, as well as on energy and defence. I feel that we must dare to stand up for our values and say no when it is not good enough.
i-cb800e623166233e-78	Mr President, I would like to Mr Roswall says he does not want to set transport modes against each other. That puzzles me somewhat, because we do, after all, have limited budgetary space. Mr Roswall also says that it is important to give priority, and I very much agree with that. It is important that we prioritise what we want to invest in for modes of transport in order to achieve our climate and environmental objectives. Everything for everyone is, as you know, not a very successful path. My question is: How do the Moderates want to solve the capacity shortage on the existing main roads? It's practically full. This means that it is difficult to increase train traffic and to carry out the necessary maintenance, and it is also difficult to maintain a good standard of traffic, because the disturbances are spreading like rings on the water. How do we want to secure freight and passenger transport that is both energy efficient and fossil-free? Electric roads in all honor, but a double track equals 15 files. I would also like to agree with what my colleague Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg said about the fact that the Moderates actually betray the municipalities when they choose to leave now what was once initiated as the construction of Sweden. The construction of Sweden was a very well-lawed project and initiative that the Green Party and the Social Democrats have carried on. Here are a number of municipalities in southern Sweden and have signed an agreement. The Moderates now want to leave them in the lurch. I think it would be important to reach a broad agreement on new high-speed main lines in order to develop and build the fossil-free welfare society.
i-cb800e623166233e-84	Mr President, I would like to How to complete the main roads? What we have said is that we must focus and prioritise where it is really needed, that is, around big cities, where we have narrow sectors and it will stop, just as Emma Berginger says. The cheese link is an example that is being built. It's a part of it. It's going to be finished. I would have liked us to have actually had more discussion about the routes we see needed, such as Lund– Hässleholm or Borås– Gothenburg. But there are also other sections around Sweden that are narrow sectors that we also need to focus on. Then it's a matter of prioritising. What the Moderates and all of us who say no to high-speed trains are doing is prioritising and ensuring that the money is spent where it is most needed. I haven't seen any other money either. If so, it would be interesting to know when they will arrive. But in essence, I say that if we are to achieve the objectives, it is a matter of prioritising, and that is what we are doing. I apologize for forgetting the second question.
i-cb800e623166233e-88	Mr President, I would like to Focusing on the big cities can be done. The risk is then that we build small cops that do not provide the exchange and benefit that an entire system could provide. An entire system provides a much greater basis. One of the things that Mrs Roswall has mentioned here before is the socio-economic profitability of these systems. Of course, it will be much better if we get a whole system with the whole basis and all the benefits that it brings. Jessika Roswall has also mentioned that it wants to invest in electric roads instead. I would like to emphasise that the government is making great efforts to develop electric roads, but it would be a major waste of time to invest more before we know which standard can ensure that we get electric roads that can be used for many years to come.
i-cb800e623166233e-91	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps it is wrong to invest in the big cities, but you have to invest where people live, and that is what you do with the high-speed roads. They invest in southern Sweden but nothing in northern Sweden. Around Sundsvall there is also a need for railway. I think that's a pretty unsound accusation. As far as electric roads are concerned, I said in my speech that there are problems. But from the industry and others it is clear: if we are to achieve the objectives, the policy must show that we want to. There is a discussion about which standard we should choose, but that does not mean that we can settle down and not invest in this. It is only now that the Green Party dares talk about electric roads, and I am certainly pleased, but it would have been good if we had been able to point out a little earlier that this is something we should invest in.
i-cb800e623166233e-93	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats' proposal for amendments in Category 22 is above the level decided, which means that we cannot reserve ourselves in favour of our proposal. The proposals of the Swedish Democrats should be seen as a whole. That is why we choose to refrain from taking a position and instead present a specific opinion. Mr President, I would like to It is often said that the infrastructure is the country's bloodstream. I can agree that the parable is pretty good. We need a functioning infrastructure for this country to work. Unfortunately, it looks as if the body Sweden has been on a proper cold, and it has been sitting for a long time. The big problem is that there is no quickfix medicine to solve the problem. There is constant alarm about new problems, and it is high time to get your body out of the bed. As has already been said, we need to see the whole picture. Infrastructure in Sweden should be seen as a whole, and it is important that we work on all levels to get goods to the stores at the right time and to get the people to their jobs or leisure activities on time. Being able to trust the infrastructure is and has been very important for a long time, especially when companies are working with the thesis. Then all warehouses are located on the roads, on the railways and in shipping, on the way to factories, shops and more. As far as passenger transport is concerned, it is at least as important that there is no increase in costs due to the loss of connections and so on. The Swedish Democrats cannot point out enough how important it is not to set traffic laws against each other. We need all kinds of traffic to make society work optimally. We need trains, ships, cars, trucks and aircraft, but not least we need digitalisation. Mr President, I would like to The railway has been used as a budget regulator for a long time, and maintenance has been severely neglected. The railway has recently had a huge upswing in terms of travel and the willingness to transport goods. We believe that there are a number of priority railway routes that need to be built or extended to double or quad tracks. There is also a need to review speeds in order to allow more freight to be transferred. We know that the speed of the railways is crucial if it is to be used more optimally. Through relatively small adjustments, we can increase capacity significantly. The government should perhaps re-priority in the national plan 2018 – 2029 and bring forward some railway initiatives. In other words, we are proposing a small reinforcement in which we will add 500 million extra to investments in rail infrastructure. We also add another 50 million to the industrial pool, so that industrial tracks can be found more easily. Let's look at the maintenance. In the past there was much more scheduled maintenance, but today there has been more to emergency maintenance, where broken railway is being fixed. We have to get back to what used to be, that is to say that we maintain the railways to 80-90% and have very little emergency maintenance. Mr President, I would like to We must not forget the industry. In this respect, huge efforts need to be made, above all in order to have the right conditions. We cannot continue to compete out of the Swedish haulage industry. We must have control on the Swedish roads. The Swedish Democrats have proposed that we have electronic control units where we can see that cabotage rules are complied with. It is also important that we see that the load securing on board the transport works, because it is very poorly secured in a lot of trucks. When I attended a cargo securing course, one in ten were properly secured. In other words, nine out of ten were under the check we did not do the correct load-proofing, which poses a huge danger to road safety. Mr President, I would like to We have also chosen to invest quite a lot in municipal roads. We halved the urban environment agreement and spent 500 million on municipal roads with special needs. But we didn't think it was enough, so we raised another 500 million. We are therefore investing an extra 1 billion in upgrading municipal roads. Then one might wonder: Why do we choose to do this? Well, when 100 out of 290 municipalities presented their budgets, they had red figures. They're going backwards. The municipalities have enormous problems managing their finances. That's why we feel we need to help. The infrastructure is so important that we cannot allow the municipalities to give it up as a priority. We know that municipalities have core issues such as school and health care, and they must be able to deal with that. That's why we're shooting at this money. Now we're talking about municipalities and municipal roads. We know that municipalities also have ports, not all municipalities but very many. We need to be able to get good access routes to and from ports in order for shipping to function satisfactorily. As far as shipping is concerned, it is very important that we start looking at the Swedish Maritime Administration. We who read the Maritime Magazine can see that the Swedish Maritime Administration has enormous problems with the economy. Their only way to raise money is to impose additional charges on shipping, which poses a risk. Now the Fehmarn B Belt Tunnel is being built. There is a risk that you will not be able to transport by ship all the way to Sweden. You may choose to refrain from taking your ships to Sweden and rather add in Denmark and Germany, where the cost is lower, and drive into Sweden with trucks instead. It's not good for the environment. I see, Mr President, that time is starting to run away, so I will skip a little bit. But I would like to point out that we must invest in security. We have previously heard Jessika Roswall discuss insecurity. I can only confirm that we have insecurity on the road and in our public transport facilities. I am thinking, above all, of a recent report on Skånetrafiken, where people are being scorned and attacked.
i-cb800e623166233e-107	Mr President, I would like to Member Jimmy Ståhl says that the Swedish body has a cold, and one way to get the cold out of the Swedish body is not to make it more ill, i.e. take care of climate and the environment. I have a wise friend in Arjeplog. Her name is Britta Flinkfeldt. She says: Imagine that you and your family have a house in which you live, which produces waste oil as waste! Imagine – now we simplify – that the only place where you can release the spill oil is the children's sandbox! The kids are small. You have to put on galonis and boots when they're going out to play, because it's a lie to get the spill oil off your clothes-- it's a difficult situation. Should parents try to reduce the amount of waste oil produced by the house to make the children's sandbox cleaner? Or should they look around and see that the neighbour is actually worse off and simply not doing anything about it? You just think about other people doing something. Does it work? Many of us have discussed the change today. When I look at the Swedish Democrats' budget and compare it with the government's and the Centre Party's and Liberals', I wonder if you really believe that we need to change and if you really believe that there is a climate threat. Are you prepared to work for a more climate-smart transport sector? That is something that we Social Democrats really want.
i-cb800e623166233e-110	Mr President, I would like to As far as the sandbox is concerned, we are not going to sit there with the Social Democrats, but they will sit there themselves. The climate is of course very important. If you see the climate as a big tree instead of a boring sandbox with oil spills in, I would say that the Social Democrats are constantly looking at the reddest apple at the top, which is the most difficult to pick. I cannot understand, Mr President, why we should constantly make it so difficult to make the climate better. It's supposed to be expensive. It's supposed to be hard. Sure, it's a beautiful apple, but the effect is small. For example, we can look at the bonus – the Malus system. There you tax the most modern and freshest cars, which emit the least exhaust gases in nature, and place the bonus on electric cars, which a few people can afford to buy. I can't understand the logic. In other words, you sit and benefit scrap cars that emit a lot of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, because it is they who are cheap to own. Instead, you should get a bonus for those who choose to scrap their cars. And electric cars should not be favoured. The sellers of electric cars have no incentive to lower prices because they are subsidised by tax, which means that electric cars do not become cheaper per au tomato. But if few choose to buy them, you have to lower the prices, which means that more can buy them. Pick low-hanging apples!
i-cb800e623166233e-114	Mr President, I would like to I think the point was that no one would be in the sandbox, but you would clean yourself, Jimmy Ståhl. Jimmy Ståhl talks about climate and says we should pick the lowest hanging fruits. I think you should pick all the fruits. That is why I am thinking: if there is anything that we all know in this Chamber, it is that fuel tax actually reduces CO2 emissions. Then it is a very low hanging fruit to keep, instead of lowering fuel tax. When I read the Swedish Democrats' budget motion, I see that they want to reduce the fuel tax by 1 krona, and they say it costs 1.9 billion. That's how I read the Moderate proposals. They want to lower it by 1 crown, and there it costs 6 billion. Is the Swedish Democrats' budget underfunded, or are the Moderates completely wrong in their calculations?
i-cb800e623166233e-117	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to how you calculate it probably depends on how much biofuels or other products you have in your petrol. At least we've been counting on it to be 1 crown cheaper at the pump. That's how we counted. How the Moderates have counted, I really don't know. I'm not saying they're wrong, and I'm not saying we're wrong. I'm not saying they're right, and I'm not saying we're right-- yes, I am. Of course you have to work on all points. I think we all want a good environment. As I have said before: Our companies in Sweden are at the forefront. Our companies are innovative. We sell solutions. Many times we can earn much more from the environment by exporting both knowledge and education. I think we need to invest globally, because the environment is global.
i-cb800e623166233e-119	Mr President, I would like to I do not have as clever parables as Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg, but I also want to raise the issue of climate. This is an issue that is outstanding in the Swedish Democrats' budget. Rather, it can be said that the Swedish Democrats' budget bill is directly harmful to climate policy. In addition to reducing the tax on petrol, as has been mentioned here before, they want to reduce the reduction obligation, abolish bonuses – malus and abolish air tax. It is true that this is part of another area of expenditure. Nevertheless, it is important in this context. The Swedish democrats' budget for this particular area of expenditure shows, in addition to the fact that they are doing evil over night trains, that they want to increase the capacity of airports, not least for Arlanda. They want to convert the urban environment agreements from being a climate contribution to the municipalities' climate change transition with investments in public transport and bicycle traffic to being used for the development of municipal roads, precisely because they prioritise climate-damaging policies. My question must be: Is there anyone anywhere in the Swedish Democrats who takes the climate issue seriously, and how do the Swedish Democrats want to deal with Sweden's climate emissions?
i-cb800e623166233e-124	Mr President, I would like to Can you, Emma Berginger, explain to me how to go in public transport without public roads? I can't. Can the President explain to me how to refuel all vehicles by having a higher reduction obligation and how it affects the climate with palm oils and so on? I cannot, Mr President. I know we have initiatives that the Green Party does not have. For example, the Green Party wants to build high-speed trains that will generate an enormous amount of CO2 emissions and be ready by 2070 or perhaps 2100 instead of once again taking the light fruits and building so that existing railways can transport more goods and more people and that quite quickly.
i-cb800e623166233e-126	Mr President, I would like to Public transport can of course go on a public transport route. Urban development contracts can be used to extend public transport roads. But as I interpret the Swedish Democrats' budget, it is precisely the other roads, the roads for car traffic, that the Swedish Democrats want to prioritise. That is precisely why they want to abolish the urban environment agreements. Of course, we need biofuels when changing the transport sector. But we also need electrification. There is much that can be done to ensure a change in car traffic. Finally, I would like to say that high-speed trains are absolutely essential for us to develop the existing railways, so that we get the necessary maintenance and secured rail services. We also need a very rapid roll-out of new high-speed trains. But there the Swedish Democrats are not helpful.
i-cb800e623166233e-130	Mr President, I would like to As a matter of fact, high-speed trains are very positive. I've been on high-speed trains. They're absolutely wonderful. Had you been able to get high - speed trains using a wand and without costing anything, you could have built them. In substance, we are not against high-speed trains. The problem is the cost and the time it takes to complete them. To build something for money that you don't have is naive, and the National Audit agrees with us. You don't do that with that kind of money. It is said that it would cost SEK 200 billion or SEK 320 billion. And in reality, I'm sure it'll stop at 500 billion dollars. But it is really uninteresting, because I hope that this will not happen at the moment. Mr Berginger is wrong about the urban environment agreements. We do not want to abolish them. However, we want to reduce them in order to benefit also municipalities in the north that do not have public transport to the extent that they have in Lund or Gothenburg.
i-cb800e623166233e-132	Mr President, I would like to Parliament has already set the budget. As the Christian Democrats' budget in this area is about SEK 1 billion higher than a three-year period, we will not vote on this but refer to our specific opinion, which tells us how we see Category 22. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats want to create a society of good economic growth and a strong business environment in fierce international competition. A well-functioning economic policy enables us to invest in welfare, such as health care, care and a good school. Through labour market and tax reforms, we can improve people's access to both housing and jobs. Economic policy is designed to strengthen families and civil society, which is the basis of a community-based society and where people have confidence in each other. In short, we put Christian Democrats' welfare and security above all else, and we want to implement reforms that strengthen the community. Mr President, I would like to Christian Democrats believe that good communications are a prerequisite for Sweden to develop prosperity, employment and competitiveness. For a sparsely populated country such as Sweden, transport is of particular importance. Our policy is based on people being able to live and work throughout the country. A well-developed transport system in the form of roads, railways, air links, shipping, functioning postal services and good telecommunications and data communications are a prerequisite for continued good development. The development of infrastructure must take place in a socially, ecologically and economically sustainable manner. That is why, among other things, we are highlighting the need for a new transport and fuel taxation that creates greater justice between city and country while at the same time making unfair competition from foreign hauliers more difficult. We believe that Sweden must reduce its dependence on fossil fuels in the transport sector. In order to achieve the objective of reducing fossil dependence, we believe that it should be facilitated for electrification of shipping, aviation and the automotive sector. However, it will not succeed if we have an energy system that is frequently affected by power shortages. We must have an impact study that ensures that there is both electricity and power throughout the country at times when users need it. Mr President, I would like to There is a great deal of consensus within the Committee on Transport and Tourism. We all basically have the same investment and maintenance budget. Even though we Christian Democrats have a number of initiatives that mean that over the next three years we spend about SEK 1 billion more than the government on infrastructure, there are virtually no major differences. However, there are worrying signals that the Finnish Transport Administration is finding it difficult to carry out the maintenance and investments that we decide on in the budget, especially on the road side. We must follow up on this, as it is important that the plans that we have decided on are also implemented. In rural areas it is important that the maintenance of the individual roads works. The regulatory framework must provide the means to allocate sufficient resources for the investment and maintenance of individual roads. Road maintenance of the individual roads usually works well, and they are an important complement to the state, municipal and regional roads. In order to make it easier for all Swedish road associations, which take a major responsibility for the local infrastructure, we want to increase the co-financing of the individual roads by another SEK 100 million. The Finnish Transport Agency is classifying new BK4 roads. To speed up this important work, we allocate SEK 10 million to staff reinforcements. It is important that the work goes faster than today, as access to BK4 roads benefits Swedish competitiveness by giving heavier and longer trucks the opportunity to use these roads. To accelerate the conversion of the truck fleet, we want to invest SEK 150 million in the expansion of charging poles for trucks. In addition to this, we are investing another SEK 25 million in the area of responsibility of the Committee on Economic Affairs for the continued expansion of charging poles for cars. It is strange, by the way, that it ended up there. We also propose an additional SEK 200 million to strengthen the infrastructure for bicycles. Cycling has a great development potential with good environmental, climate and health effects. Cycling must be seen as a separate form of transport and be given a higher priority in urban planning. Where individual municipalities invest in infrastructure for bicycles, the proportion of bicycles increases, which reduces the load in the rest of the traffic system. In this context, I would also like to point out that it is important that we follow the development of electric scooters in order to see how we will eventually work to ensure that this type of traffic also works well throughout the entire traffic environment. The railway is an important mode of transport. We are working to renovate the current tracks and to build new main roads in order to connect different labour market regions. We also believe that the railways in Norrland should continue to be upgraded, with positive consequences for the entire transport system. We have also supported the Government's proposal to support night trains, as they increase mobility for those living and working in northern Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Air transport is an important part of national public transport. If all parts of Sweden are to have the same conditions to benefit from our strong growth regions, we must have a working flight. We therefore believe that municipalities and regions should have the opportunity to procure the flight they deem necessary to strengthen local business and provide citizens with good opportunities to travel in the country. At the same time, it is important that aviation continues to reduce its emissions. We therefore propose that a targeted investment be made in research and development of electricity and biofuels for aviation. We allocate SEK 100 million to strengthen the research that is already ongoing on e.g. the development of electric aircraft. In addition to that, we are spending 50 million on the biojet in Category 20. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a trading nation, and about 90 percent of all goods that leave and come to Sweden do so via a port. We want to strengthen Swedish shipping, which is why we say no to the government's reduction in maritime subsidies by SEK 20 million. The government chooses to go forward with a 1% reduction in aid, which we consider to be extremely unfortunate. It damages the industry's confidence in the state, and it risks hampering the positive flagging of ships that we have seen in recent years. At the same time, the possibility of transferring goods to shipping is hampered, which is contrary to environmental objectives. It is important that charging systems and taxes steer towards climate-smart choices. Investments in climate-smart technologies must pay off in order for more players to make these choices. There is currently the possibility of environmental rebates for companies making such investments, but for many shipowners environmental rebates have been reduced compared to the environmental rebates that existed before. This is unfortunate. The incentives for shipowners to make environmental investments need to be strengthened, so we are investing SEK 30 million in strengthening the environmental discount. Mr President, I would like to We have already talked about security in public transport. It is an important issue; public transport is an important part of the infrastructure. Unfortunately, we Christian Democrats have noted that there is increased insecurity in public transport, especially in our major cities. We therefore allocate SEK 10 million to counteract this insecurity via surveillance cameras and other measures aimed at strengthening safety on streets, in bus and train stations. We are carrying out an increased investment of 50 million in broadband. High costs for individual users are currently the main obstacle to broadband deployment. It is therefore important that the support for broadband roll-out is maintained. Everyone working on these issues realizes that broadband together with 5G will be one of the really big technology leaps. The vehicles, healthcare, home care, education and entrepreneurship of the future will be fully dependent on functioning digital solutions. Today we see that rural areas have not been given the same good conditions as our urban areas, and therefore it is important that we continue to invest in the construction of broadband throughout Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I am approaching the end of my speech. We in the Committee on Transport and Tourism agree on most things, but I am concerned about the lack of foresight. Last Friday I had a debate with Tomas Eneroth regarding the upgrading of the state's investment plan. Unfortunately, the answer was that it is being prepared in the government, which means that the evaluation and upgrading to be carried out in 2022 has not been started. This creates concerns and planning difficulties for municipalities, regions and business. Mr President, I would like to We Christian Democrats support our policy and our specific opinion on Category 22.
i-cb800e623166233e-156	I would remind you of the agreement on a maximum of eight minutes' speaking time that Members are obviously well aware of.
i-cb800e623166233e-157	Mr President, I would like to I read in the Christian Democrats' alternative budget and am looking for coverage for the investments in the climate transition that Magnus Jacobsson was working on. Instead, I find a long series of reductions in the climate area. The Christian Democrats reject climate change, abolish the urban environment agreement and want it to be cheaper to release through reduced fuel taxes and a abolished air tax. There will be no extra investment in expanding public transport, which I find strange because I fully agree with Magnus Jacobsson on the importance of increasing security in public transport and overall getting more people to travel collectively. As you know, we have a target of reducing our emissions in this area by at least 70% over the next ten years. I'm not getting it right with the Christian Democrats' policy. How will the Christian Democrats ensure that we achieve this goal of reduced climate efforts?
i-cb800e623166233e-160	Mr President, I would like to Jens is wrong in substance, because in this budget we have supported the airline tax. Among other things, it is the money we spend on investments to find other opportunities to make aviation more environmentally friendly through electricity and other fuels. So we have made a change in position compared to the previous budget. As far as many of the issues highlighted are concerned, it is really regional and municipal funding, and we believe that it should be regional and municipal funding. It is also the case that several of the projects that are now being highlighted in positive terms have unfortunately proved very ineffective. They have not had the desired effects, and we are having a very difficult time with the idea of throwing good money after bad. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, we can see that CO2 emissions decreased by 19% during the alliance period. During the current period, it has been possible to reduce them by 0.4%. I do not think that any of us on the bourgeois side has much to be ashamed of when it comes to environmental policy. We are proud of the environmental policy we are pursuing, and we want to make a change. However, we do not believe in the idea of penalising rural areas.
i-cb800e623166233e-163	Mr President, I would like to As far as public transport is concerned, I'm not really getting it together. On the one hand, Magnus Jacobsson says that this is something for the regions to invest in, but on the other hand the Christian Democrats want to allocate SEK 10 million – I think it was – to surveillance cameras. There's no big investment in public transport. If we really want more people to travel collectively, and perhaps in rural areas in particular, I think that we can simply go in and help the regional public transport authorities with special funding from the state budget. That is exactly what we in the Left Party are doing. Then I find it very strange that the Christian Democrats are dismissing the most effective way of reducing our emissions from the transport sector in the near future, namely fuel taxes. It is clear that it is possible to compensate people living in rural areas, and we in the Left Party want to do so. Why do you dismiss the most effective way of reducing emissions from the transport sector, Magnus Jacobsson?
i-cb800e623166233e-165	Mr President, I would like to I am particularly pleased with the last question. It is not the case that the Christian Democrats dismiss fuel taxes; on several occasions, on the contrary, we have tried to highlight a completely new way of thinking. We had a seminar in Almedalen on this, where we said there was a need for new traffic and fuel taxation. Our idea is based on the use of the digital conditions that are now emerging and that allow you to have a tax where there is completely different tax at different times of the day, different tax depending on where in the country you drive, different taxation depending on the weight of the vehicle and so on. On the contrary, therefore, we would like a system that actually uses positive and negative incentives to improve the taxation of traffic. It would benefit rural areas, and it would benefit urban public transport. Then we will not have a public transport system that is as good throughout Sweden as it is in Stockholm, and therefore we must accept the car as an important means of transport.
i-cb800e623166233e-168	Mr President, I would like to First I'd like to say, hurrah! For over ten years, we Social Democrats have been pushing for new, decent conditions on the roads. We have done so with the help of Social Democratic MEPs such as Jens Nilsson, Marita Marita and now Johan Danielsson, as well as with our Minister for Infrastructure Tomas Eneroth. Now came the message of successful negotiations in the EU – we will have new rules that will bring order to the roads for truck drivers and competition on equal terms for hauliers. This is a victory! We now hope that the European Parliament will approve the proposal.
i-cb800e623166233e-169	Today we are debating the Transport Committee's report No 1, which contains the Government's proposal of over 1 billion a week in 2020 to build and maintain our infrastructure in Sweden. It is part of building a stronger and safer Sweden that stays together. The government is doing this so that we can live and work throughout our country and so that we can transport the wealth that exists around the country and that is so important for the Swedish economy. The government is doing this so that we can get safe, safe and on time to work or to school and to change so that our children, our grandchildren and future generations will know that those of us in the Swedish Parliament who are behind the Paris goals and those of us who said yes to a climate law will also work to build a more robust, stronger and secure society. The transition must also be fair. No one should be left in the lurch because of class, gender or place of residence. The transition must permeate all policy areas. It affects everything from industrial production and the food we eat to the houses we live in and how we consume. There are actually no transports that are free of charge. We have set a good but challenging target of reducing emissions from transport by 70% by 2030. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions. When I read the whole report, I see that there is a strength there, namely that we in the Committee on Transport and Tourism broadly agree on a great deal. However, I can also see from recent experience that what is being promised seems too easy to break; the agreements that have been made have a very short best-before-date. However, I do not take up any sorrows in advance, but I can say that in order to plan, to build new ones and to maintain the infrastructure, we need to agree as far as possible in the long term. It is necessary when we work with our biggest challenges: to meet the important climate goals we have set and at the same time manage accessibility both in rural areas and in cities with functional infrastructure when Sweden's population grows, when companies want to invest, when housing is built, when workers are going to commute to work and when people are going to be able to get to school or to ski slopes. Mr President, I would like to On our roads more and more electric cars are rolling. Sweden belongs to those countries in Europe where a high proportion of new registrations are rechargeable cars. We also see an increase in the number of registrations of electric buses and light trucks. 30 000 new charging points have been added since the Klimatklivet started. But more is needed, so the government proposes an electrification commission to speed up the electrification of the transport sector. We need it. We need more biofuels, and we need to increase the reduction obligation to make our journeys and transport on the roads climate-smarter. It is gratifying that Swedish public transport is almost completely fossil-free. It is important that public Sweden takes precedence. It is also important to invest in a ticketing system for the whole country. It should be easy to be a public transport guest. Mr President, I would like to The millionth train left a few weeks ago. It's tight on the tracks. Capacity needs to be expanded – for work commuting, for long-distance travel, for the growing tourism industry and for freight transport. The Transport Committee visited the Västra Götaland region a few weeks ago. The message we received was clear: It is full on the tracks. We see it from Lund to Luleå. We see the importance of Norrbotniabanan when we know how important the natural resources produced by Norrland are for Swedish exports and for Aktiebolaget Sweden's economy. Railways play a much greater role each year in this infrastructure plan compared to the previous one. As a social democrat from Jämtland, I must also say how happy I am that the government is listening and not only investing in rail but also in trains to walk on it. An example of this is the investment in night trains to Jämtland. Who does not want to experience snow and skiing in Åre or Jämtlandsfjällen, Mr President? Everyone is, of course, warmly welcome. The railroad needs more maintenance. We have a maintenance debt that we are now dealing with. For anyone waiting in the rain and cold on a platform, the train needs to come and go on time. Delays cost the whole community. Mr President, I would like to When we visited Gothenburg in the Transport Committee, it was not only about the fact that it is full on the tracks and about the construction of the West Link but also about the port of Gothenburg that is so important to Sweden. There the Minister for Infrastructure opened the first alcobom this year. This is important for road safety. Mr President, I would like to Shipping is hugely important for our exports. For it and for our other modes of transport, the government's freight transport strategy becomes important. We want to see the move to rail and shipping, and it is gratifying that the Swedish flag is wading on more and more ships. With investments in more research, with eco-bonus and with more investment than before in the infrastructure plan, we see a boost for Swedish shipping. The Swedish shipping industry has zero emissions as a target by 2050. We see many positive examples, such as that those who take turns between Helsingborg and Helsingör do so on battery powered ferries. We see modern design and the latest technology, as on the ship – Thun Venern – to which I was privileged to become godmother. We also see new jobs. Between 2015 and 2018, the number of direct employees in the Swedish maritime cluster increased by about 1,000 people, and I am very happy that my son is one of them. Aviation creates the necessary accessibility in our elongated country. We are the second most sparsely inhabited country in Europe. We need the flight if we are to be able to travel efficiently and transport when the distances of the country or the country are too long. But aviation must also change, and the infrastructure and the transport modes as a whole must each other's jacket for the most climate-smart and efficient journey or transport. Mr President, I would like to The secure, strong and sustainable construction of society must continue with broadband throughout the country, where the state must also guarantee access to secure and reliable digital utilities. It must continue with bicycle routes for young and old, with road safety roads operated by climate-smart vehicles and with fair conditions. This community development must continue on flights powered by electricity or biofuels, with an extended and maintained rail system where goods are transported and where people travel to new destinations or work commutes. It must continue with developed, climate-smart shipping that carries goods both abroad and to our own and near ports. Sweden needs all kinds of traffic. We have a real challenge in changing. We also have a real challenge in that the whole country should have a functioning infrastructure and access to good communications. We Social Democrats never fear a challenge. The strong, secure and sustainable construction of society is definitely part of the Transport Committee's report 1.
i-cb800e623166233e-193	Mr President, I would like to What can I say? Overall, I think the budget is quite good – it captures quite a lot of the whole. When I heard that AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg was up talking about the EU, I was very happy. I did not understand, however, that the name of our own little Swedish Democrat, Mrs Nalles, was mentioned from the speaker's seat. Our Nalle, together with the former Social Democrat Jens Nilsson, has pushed through the mobility package, which makes us very proud. Both Nalle and Jens Nilsson have long and robustly fought to get to the right conditions for the haulage industry. But, Mr President, the mobility package also requires us to have effective controls, because without road checks, the mobility package becomes completely meaningless. I was just going to ask Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg what efforts the Social Democrats are making to ensure that we have checks on the mobility package so as not to let this solid work in Europe just slip between our fingers.
i-cb800e623166233e-197	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for the question. I personally don't know Nalle bear. I don't know who teddy bear is. On the other hand, I am absolutely convinced that everyone knows that the Social Democrats are definitely the guarantor of the right conditions. This job, as I said, has been going on for an incredibly long time. If we are to have fair conditions both for those who drive the trucks and for the hauliers, we must also have control. We have tried, for example, during the last parliamentary term, to get more inspectors. As the Minister of Infrastructure went out with maybe six months ago– I don't remember how long it has been – we are now also looking at whether we can have our own inspection with civilian inspectors to take this job and do it properly, so that we can get our roads sorted out.
i-cb800e623166233e-201	Mr President, I would like to I think that is quite right. I have great respect for the Minister for Infrastructure and the work that is being done. We need a battery of measures to make the haulage industry work and to get Swedish hauliers to compete on fair terms. It's very important. Another important aspect of having more government personnel on the road is not least security. We recently read about a rider who was asleep. He woke up when the truck was moving, which meant he was looking out. He then saw a man with an AK4 standing outside while the truck was being emptied of goods. He was terrified. This is exactly what we need to curb. How long before the riders can feel safe on the roads?
i-cb800e623166233e-205	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I have no other opinion than that, of course, you should feel safe and secure on the roads.
i-cb800e623166233e-206	Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying that the transport and IT infrastructure, the five modes of transport together, is a complete prerequisite for living, living and producing things throughout the country. The functioning of the freight transport sector is important to enable entrepreneurship and work, just as important as the functioning of passenger transport so that people come to and from work and education and for their social lives. Technology development, efficiency, digitalisation, regulatory simplifications and a shift to electrified transport and an increased share of renewable fuels will together continue to provide good communications throughout our country while at the same time enabling us to meet the tough challenge that we have taken on in the form of a climate law. The Center Party is a strong driver for Sweden to reach the target of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet and emissions reductions equivalent to 70 per cent from 2010 to 2030. The Center Party's assessment is that it is a tough but possible climate target and that it is consistent with good mobility for people and goods throughout the country. Mr President, I would like to It is possible to reconcile people's mobility and freight flows with high climate ambitions. In this work, of course, state transport infrastructure – state roads, railways, shipping, aviation and IT – has a very important role to play. What we are discussing in this debate today is the framework and conditions we provide. In the budget, the Centre Party has prioritised increasing the maintenance of the fine-meshed road and rail networks in particular, improving the efficiency of railway maintenance and increasing and accelerating investment in transport infrastructure through alternative financing solutions. We have prioritised investments in electrification, renewable energy and more public transport, as well as further investments in the so important IT and broadband deployment – the fifth mode of transport. A transport system must also be equal. It should be able to be used by both women and men. Passenger transport is fundamental to our everyday lives, and equal opportunities are about giving women and men equal opportunities for work commuting, training commuting and travel in life. Today, women and men travel in different ways. Public transport is mainly used by women, while men choose the car to a greater extent. A more equal and therefore more sustainable transport system requires both women and men to participate in planning and decisions relating to the transport system. That is not the case today. Women are under-represented in decisions and planning of transport infrastructure compared to men, which is also reflected in how it is designed in terms of security, accessibility and more. Increased regional public transport promotes sustainable regional enlargement and provides access to more attractive training and workplaces, which is particularly beneficial for the group of women. Today, a woman is more geographically limited in her travel than a m an n. In order to achieve a more accessible and equal labour market, we must therefore enlarge the labour market regions in our country and make the geography bigger in which I can train and work. Then an expanded transport infrastructure – roads, railways, public transport and the possibility to travel on your own means of transport – is the means. Aviation must be better at reducing its climate impact and emissions. But the principle that it is emissions, not transport itself, that is the concern also applies to aviation. It is primarily in terms of climate that aviation has its major challenge. It is not the flight but the emissions it generates that must be handled. So if you want to steer flights in a climate-wise direction, it is unwise to tax the flight itself. It's the fuel selection that needs to be controlled. In order to be able to use flights in our very elongated country, state airports play a major role, but regional airports play an equal role. We are completely dependent on their functioning, and they are the ones that enable both people and high-quality goods to get where they are going in our country and beyond the borders of the country. The regional airports connect Sweden. They are run, owned and managed by municipalities and regions and, in any case, by a company. The Government appointed an airport review to review the long-term role of the State as an aid provider for non-State airports. This review has not yet been reported. Of course, that's not good enough. It is important for the state to create long-term sustainable operating conditions for non-governmental airports as well. New main courses have been on the agenda earlier here in the debate. Today we know that the capacity of the Swedish railway is not sufficient in either northern or southern Sweden. A strong growth in rail transport has led to a high level of use and poor maintenance, while the railways have been in need of further reinforcements in terms of operation and maintenance for a very long time. The forecasts show a continued strong growth in passenger travel and freight transport in our country. In order to maintain only the share of rail in transport, capacity needs to be significantly strengthened. The current situation makes the rail system very sensitive to disturbances, both planned and technical and weather-based. The end result risks being low reliability and low confidence in trains, both for passenger traffic and for freight transport. Mr President, I would like to Those who are today opposed to us strengthening the Swedish rail system with new main rail lines will of course be obliged to reply. How, then, does it intend to respond to the growing need for reliable rail transport alongside reliable aviation, shipping and road traffic? How is it intended to meet the growing need to transport people and goods in our country? Heavy transport, as well as individual roads, are properly affected in the budget. Heavy road and rail transport needs to become heavier and longer in order to achieve transport efficiency, environmental benefits and higher safety. The road system is a coherent road system, from the smallest single road to the largest road in Europe. The system must be interrelated in order for technology gains and transport efficiency to be possible. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say that it is when all five modes of road, rail, air, maritime and broadband work together that life works best. That is what traffic policy is all about, Mr President and my friends. I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-cb800e623166233e-222	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report on Category 22. Today we are debating the budget for 2020 for infrastructure, mail and IT. There are a number of targets in this area, not least the climate target with a 70% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2030. Setting goals is one thing, but it is the follow-up that is the driving force for things to happen. In the follow-up from last year we can read that the punctuality of passenger trains declined in 2018. However, we know that it has improved significantly in 2019, which is gratifying. This allows travelers to know that they arrive on time, and they dare to put the car and travel by train to work. We can also read that most types of traffic do not pay their own costs. One exception is rural car traffic, which pays more than its own costs. This is important to take into account when we review instruments for achieving the 2030 climate targets in the future. One of Sweden's goals is to be the best in the world to exploit the opportunities of digitalisation. It is gratifying to see that we are usually ranked high – among the five best in international contexts. Despite this, development potential is high, not least in most public areas. Digitalisation is one of the most important means of coping with an ageing population, making transport more efficient and otherwise offering services that facilitate everyday life for our citizens. Therefore, efforts to develop a digitisation strategy should be speeded up, for example in terms of creating infrastructure that can handle large amounts of data using artificial intelligence. In order to drive development in Sweden, we have a digitisation authority, but we should also look at how digitalisation is conducted in the Riksdag, Mr President. Today, the issue is divided over a large number of committees, and I believe that it affects Parliament's ability to drive digitalisation in Sweden. We can also see from the follow-up that aviation has had a tough year, partly because of the emission debate. The flight is unmatched for longer journeys, which is why we work in the Liberals to enable us in Sweden to fly electric flights before 2030 and that the electrification of our road transport is fast so that we can get enough biofuels for international flights. If we now look ahead and look at the content of the 2020 budget, we will find a few initiatives that I would like to highlight. The electrification of our road transport is too slow. It is a global challenge ahead of us if we are to cope with the climate. The Liberals therefore highlighted in Almedalen last summer the need for an electrification commission, and it is therefore gratifying to see that it is now becoming a reality by 2020. The task is to accelerate investments in electric roads, charging infrastructure for electric trucks and other applications. The Commission will also examine the financing issues, not least how electricity can be quickly drawn to the road, as well as the impact on electricity supply of the modal shift in road transport. In order to be able to shorten the implementation period, it is important that industry and other stakeholders participate in the work so that the proposals are already anchored when they are presented. In the budget, broadband expansion has received 650 million over three years. Good connectivity with high transfer speed is important for the whole of Sweden to work. It promotes companies and also climate targets if residents start using digital means of communication rather than transport physically. We have been living for many years with an investment deficit in the transport sector, and the budget's 61 billion therefore consists of just over half of investments, i.e. 33 billion, in 2020. In particular, the maintenance and investment of the rail network and the improvement of the functioning of the individual roads for the development of rural areas are required. This is why investment in the long-term supply of skills and training in the infrastructure and transport sectors is important. We are investing heavily in infrastructure, but that also requires more people with the right skills, especially in the rail sector. At the same time, the infrastructure and transport sectors are facing a major technological shift that places new demands on both employees and technology. That is also why I would like to highlight the research and innovation efforts contained in the budget in the field of transport in order to cope with this technological shift. I would also like to mention the car subsidy for people with disabilities, something I have not heard anyone else talk about. It is a freedom issue to be free to choose how to get to work and be able to visit friends spontaneously. Everyone in Sweden should be able to do that, and that is why we think this is very important. If we are to achieve efficient and sustainable freight transport and, at the same time, achieve our climate targets, we need to promote the transfer of goods from road to rail and shipping. Therefore, the investment in the transhipment of goods between different modes of transport in our ports is important. The Government decided in January 2017 on a strategy for the role of aviation in the transport system of the future. The strategy states, among other things, that the conditions for aviation in Sweden will be improved while reducing its environmental and climate impact. Liberals are behind the fact that it is emissions that we should be able to access. We're not going on a specific mode of transport. With, among other things, electric flights around the corner, it is important to manage the transition from today's system. Therefore, we need to examine how the rapid development of the electric flight and its need for regional airports affect the conclusions of the 2017 Airport Review, i.e. the review that was completed before the electric flight took off. Let's talk about maybe a year and a half. It says something about the power of change in what we are facing. We Liberals believe that all modes of transport are needed and that it is emissions that are to be reduced, not one particular mode of transport. It is needed for the whole country to live and at the same time to achieve our climate goals.
i-cb800e623166233e-242	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report and for the motion to be rejected. Sweden and the world face a number of challenges. Firstly, it is a climate emergency in which we have not yet managed to turn the emissions curves downwards for the significant reduction in CO2 emissions that is required to ensure the achievement of the Paris Agreement's objectives of a maximum of 2 degrees and preferably 1.5 degrees temperature increase. These are the levels that provide a manageable future for our children and grandchildren. Secondly, we see the polarisation of society with increasing xenophobia, criminality and, moreover, questioning the fundamental pillars of democracy. Now we are all faced with important choices: Should we act, or should we not act? Should we stand up for measures needed to ensure a sustainable climate? Should we stand up for democracy and human rights? The time of decency must be now. Together with the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals, the Green Party takes responsibility to ensure that Sweden has a government that keeps conservative and xenophobic forces away from power. Together we present a budget that puts the environment and climate first and provides the conditions for a Sweden that stays together. The alternative we saw in the conservative budget that M and KD pushed through together with the Swedish Democrats last year. It was a budget that slaughtered the environmental and climate efforts that the Green Party has worked hard for over the years in government. Our budget ensures the restoration of the environmental and climate efforts necessary for a sustainable transition. The government has mapped out the vision: Sweden will be the world's first carbon neutral welfare country, but to get there we need to succeed in the transformation of the transport sector, which accounts for about one third of Sweden's emissions. COP 25 is currently under way, where the countries of the world are discussing the way forward for the Paris Agreement. Greta Thunberg has just been appointed person of the year by the Times newspaper. She has become an international symbol for all of us who want to see the necessary transition. Bravely, she raises the conclusions of research and the necessary questions and calls world leaders to account. For the world to change, the transformation needs to take place nationally and locally. Sweden will reach net zero emissions by 2045. This basically means that all sectors need to reach zero emissions. We cannot afford to fail in climate change. The Parliament has decided that by 2030 we will have reduced emissions from domestic transport by 70 per cent. It is a major challenge, and we are so far from achieving the goal. With now decided measures, we are estimated to reach only 40% reduction, according to the Swedish Transport Administration. In order to achieve the objectives, the Climate Policy Council has underlined the importance of the compatibility of transport policy objectives with climate objectives. The overall objective of transport policy is to ensure a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. In addition, the Parliament has decided on functional targets that are about accessibility and a consideration objective that is about safety, the environment and health. These two objectives have equal status, but for too long the objective of accessibility has in many cases had to stand back. The Government therefore presents in the budget proposal a clarification of the relationship between the accessibility target and the consideration objective. The accessibility target shall be achieved mainly within the context of the consideration objective. In order to achieve the overall transport policy objective, it is necessary to ensure a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. The Government also presents a new milestone for the consideration objective – the previously decided climate target for the transport sector by the Riksdag: that emissions from domestic transport should be reduced by 70 per cent by 2030. This highlights the importance of the climate target. In order to switch the transport sector, we need both rapid action in the short term and long-term measures that lay the foundations for sustainable transport for many years to come. In order to succeed in the conversion process, it is not enough simply to replace a petrol or diesel engine with an engine powered by electricity or biofuels. We also need a powerful increase in the efficiency of transport. This is necessary if renewable energy and bio-materials are to be sufficient, not just for the transformation of the transport sector, with passenger transport, road and rail freight, air and maritime transport, but for the transformation of society as a whole. In order to make a transition to more efficient and fossil-free transport, it is necessary to have the courage to invest in the sustainable alternatives and prioritise. The core of a sustainable transport system is the railways. Rail is the most energy-efficient way to transport many and much in a fast and energy-efficient way. It is for this reason that it is so important for the government to make an historic effort on the railways. In the national infrastructure plan, over the planning period, EUR 125 billion is spent on maintaining rail, which is an increase of 47%, corresponding to EUR 40 billion. In addition, funding from rail charges is added, which is estimated to amount to 27.4 billion for the planning period. The Government has also, in accordance with the Environmental Party's zero vision for train trouble, commissioned the Swedish Transport Administration to develop a long-term maintenance plan regarding the implementation of railway maintenance. For 2020, major investments are estimated at just over 10 billion from the national plan. The International Infrastructure Plan also includes the first stages of the new high-speed rail links. In the near future, we need to make decisive decisions in order to move forward with the planning of the whole system of new main routes. Today it is practically full on the existing main roads in southern Sweden, and new capacity is needed so that fossil-free and energy-efficient well-functioning rail transport is offered both to those who want to travel far as well as to those who want to commute in their region or those who need to transport goods. In the January agreement we agree on the completion of new high-speed trains. We also agree to continue to expand the railway in Norrland. For the Green Party, an extended railway system throughout the country is a high priority. In order to replace flights and trips where you need to travel really far, night trains can be a convenient alternative, as you can move when you sleep. In the budget bill there are several initiatives both on procured night train traffic to European cities and on ensuring night train traffic between northern Sweden and Stockholm, which is well-lawed. I would like to emphasise that, in addition to rail transport, good and well-developed public transport and bicycle infrastructure are needed. Here the Green Party has been involved in ensuring that municipalities can receive state co-financing through the urban environment agreements, which now amount to 1 billion a year. This allows important track initiatives as well as BRT solutions and cycle paths to be expanded. In cities there are good conditions for public transport and cycling to become the norm for passenger transport. The car also has its place in the future. However, it is absolutely essential that the car traffic be changed so that it also becomes fossil-free. This is why the Green Party, together with the Social Democrats, has introduced bonuses – malus, reduction obligations and more to speed up the transition. The government also proposes an electrification commission to speed up the electrification of the transport sector, which is very positive. As I began: the Green Party, the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals have presented a budget that puts the environment and climate first and provides the conditions for a Sweden that holds together.
i-cb800e623166233e-263	Mr President, I would like to Putting the climate first- I'm not quite sure you do. As Emma Berginger herself said in her speech, with the decisions and measures now taken, the government will not achieve our climate target in this area, namely to reduce emissions by at least 70% by 2030. That is why the Left Party's priorities are different. We increase taxes and charges for high-income earners and capital and also for emissions, and we therefore have more than 40 billion extra in a separate climate package for the next three years to change Sweden. In this particular area of expenditure, we allocate SEK 5.8 billion more to better rail maintenance, faster rail expansion, more money for the transfer of freight transport from road to rail, a bicycle pot, SEK 2 1⁄2 billion to increased public transport investments, a completely new conversion aid for cars, etc. We also say no to building new motorways. Instead, we want to invest everything in rail and public transport. In the discussions, I think the Green Party is very pleased with the budget that is now in place. I find this odd because the budget will not achieve the climate targets we have set ourselves. I would therefore like to ask Emma Berginger: what new measures and decisions does the Green Party consider necessary in the field of transport in order to achieve the 70% reduction target?
i-cb800e623166233e-266	Mr President, I would like to As I emphasised in my speech, we are not getting all the way through yet. Further measures are needed to achieve the climate and environmental objectives decided by the Swedish Parliament. Not only do measures need to be presented in a budget, but there is a climate action plan that will be presented in the near future. There will also be a need to develop additional policy instruments for many years to come. I am absolutely convinced of this. The fact that the Left Party has an inexhaustible capacity to finance measures that go beyond what all other parties have the opportunity to finance is not news. The Green Party puts climate and environmental issues first. We have also chosen to take on the responsibility that enables us to participate and have an influence on politics. This allows us to sit in a government with the Social Democrats. This means that we can conclude a January agreement with the Center Party and the Liberals. For that, one must have the ability to compromise and be constructive. This does not mean that the Green Party has released the demands and visions that we have in the field of environment and climate. On the contrary, we are working hard to ensure that our party has as much impact as possible in negotiations with other parties. When we do not have a party that has its own majority in the Swedish Parliament, a budget needs to be a compromise product. That is precisely why the Green Party thinks that we have presented a very good budget together with the Center Party and the Liberals. It means that we take responsibility for the future by restoring many of the cuts that the Moderates and Christian Democrats, together with the Swedish Democrats, carried out in the previous budget. We are taking major steps forward in the field of climate change, not least with the objectives I mentioned.
i-cb800e623166233e-272	Mr President, I would like to Former bourgeois governments have reduced taxes by over SEK 100 billion. Now this government continues and lowers the tax rate for the absolutely richest by nearly SEK 6 billion. There's a lot of money to take off. I wouldn't say it's an inexhaustible resource. But there is a great deal of money to distribute to those who have the greatest needs and to change our society so that we live within the limits that the planet sets for us. There I miss a bit of the Green Party in the discussions these days. I mentioned a few concrete points. We invest more money in rail and maintenance. We want a separate conversion support so that you can convert your car afterwards and a separate bicycle pot. Let's say no to new highways. This applies, for example, to cross-connection Södertörn, which will cost SEK 11 billion and which is dismissed by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Does the Green Party think that any of these proposals could be useful in a future budget?
i-cb800e623166233e-274	Mr President, I would like to There are several legitimate proposals that Jens Holm lists here. The Green Party itself has proposed a conversion aid that we have as a starting point in future negotiations. Of course, we think that there is more that can be done in the climate and the environment. But we also want to look at what is possible to push through politically. Mr President, I would like to Here I think that the Left Party and Jens Holm will be responsible for the answer because they have shown that they cannot make the necessary compromises to get their policies through. It is at least as important as being able to hold up a plaque and talk about what you want. You have to be able to show what you want and have the ability to enforce your policies. The Green Party continues to drive climate and environmental issues hard in our cooperation with both the Social Democrats and the Center Party and the Liberals.
i-Wq2vLbReUNVGKfK3CtPQTv	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan, Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren, Minister of State Peter Eriksson and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Economic Affairs Ibrahim Baylan answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-cb800e623166233e-277	Madam President, I would like I would like to put my question to Minister Baylan. We Moderates think that all Swedish pensioners deserve reduced tax and more money in their wallets. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats are failing a large proportion of the country's pensioners. It now chooses to reduce the tax on those with the highest pensions and completely ignores reducing the tax on those with the lowest pensions. It makes no sense, and it's very unfair. This means that the majority of female pensioners will not receive a tax reduction on 1 January. These are people who have worked a whole life as child care workers, carers, nurses, and much more. They have fought, but so they do not get a single crown in tax cuts with the government's budget.
i-cb800e623166233e-281	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an urgent, albeit somewhat surprising, question from Elisabeth Svantesson, the Moderates! Tax shall be paid on the basis of viability. It has been the guiding principle in Sweden for a long time. But under the bourgeois government this was disturbed. The pensioners suddenly paid higher taxes on the same income. We promised that we would even out, and we have done so. During the last parliamentary term, we did so step by step for those with the lowest pensions, and we continued during this parliamentary term with the remaining groups above this point. Meanwhile, the Moderates, together with the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats, have introduced new inequalities between employees and pensioners. And now Elisabeth Svantesson is holding back the fact that pensioners are not getting enough. With a Social Democratic-led government, we will always give priority to pensioners and gradually remove the unfair gap between employees and pensioners in taxation.
i-cb800e623166233e-284	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. This is interesting. Pensioners have experienced tax cuts of 27 billion over the last ten years. That's very good. 21 of these billions have been driven through by the Moderates. This year, for example, all pensioners, including women with the lowest pensions, received reduced tax rates. I hear that the Government is unable to answer the question of why all pensioners in the country do not get reduced tax. Women who have worked hard in care for the elderly and in school receive no reduced tax. My question remains: Why?
i-cb800e623166233e-286	Madam President, I would like It's almost like you see the redness of shame. Under the bourgeois government, a pensioner paid an average of SEK 1 000 more in tax than a wage earner with a corresponding income. This injustice we went to elections to remove. That's what we're doing, step by step. Tax should be paid according to viability and not by age, Elisabeth Svantesson. That is the policy you have pursued when you have been in government, and you should actually be ashamed of that. Pensioners deserve better than that.
i-cb800e623166233e-288	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. Many of us now look forward to going home to our families to celebrate Christmas and New Year and spend time with those who matter most to us. Unfortunately, not everyone has that privilege. For many, this time of year means loneliness and enormous suffering. Christmas and New Year is an especially difficult time for those who feel mentally ill. The New Year's Day is a day when many people try to kill themselves. I have now learned that the nationwide help line offering anonymous and free call support for people with mental illness will be closed at the turn of the year. It is a decision that is extremely worrying.
i-cb800e623166233e-293	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Clara Aranda, for the question and the opportunity to sort out something that I understand many people are worried about when they read about! I, too, have been reached by the question in various ways. The helpline is an important opportunity to get in touch not only with health care but also with people you can talk to. It is the regions that together run the Helpline that have decided that they should no longer operate it in this form, but in some other form. I can see that if one has decided to run the Helpline in another form, it is not very clear to those who need it. I think it would be wise to have a better dialogue from the regions in this context. I have also asked the question to make myself clear whether it is due to a lack of resources or the like, but you simply want another organisation. I can answer Clara Aranda and anyone who wonders that it is a matter of turning to care when you feel that you have a need for care, care or support. Of course, if it is an emergency, you should turn to an emergency, and if it is not an emergency, you should turn to primary care or other care.
i-cb800e623166233e-297	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Under no circumstances can closure be accepted. In one year, the Helpline receives 30,000 calls but can only respond to 14,000 of them. This shows that the business must be expanded and not closed down. We Swedish democrats want to see a state-funded national and national help line that can respond to the great need that exists.
i-cb800e623166233e-300	Madam President, I would like I would like to remind Clara Aranda and everyone who listens that 1177 is a common line. It is the responsibility of each region, but no matter where in the country you live, you can call 1177 to find answers to questions about health care, advice or other ways of information about where you turn in health care. The ambition of the government is to develop, together with the regions, 1177 so that it really is where you turn. It is about being able to get self-care advice but also about perhaps getting digital care and help with appointment booking in specialist care or primary care. This is the view of 1177 on the part of the government.
i-cb800e623166233e-302	Madam President, I would like I would like to turn to Minister Baylan. My question is this: is the Minister of Economic Affairs prepared to include the tax system and hence the tax administration in a future effort to simplify the rules? The latest international measurement made by the OECD shows that the regulatory improvement work has deteriorated since 2015, when the measurement and the survey were made before. The OECD also reports that there are shortcomings in the Swedish analysis and impact calculations when making changes. If we look at the World Bank's ranking, we see that much more time is being spent on this in Swedish companies than in neighbouring countries' companies.
i-cb800e623166233e-305	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Per Åsling, for a very important question! In fact, I just came from a meeting with the country's governors with this very theme. The background is that during the autumn I, together with Företagarna and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, have travelled around and met over 75 companies who have had to explain exactly what is the problem. It has been a matter of rules, but also very much of application, management and attitudes. It has become clear that we actually seem to be as unique as a country in which the tax authorities are set as a good example in terms of treatment, processing times and so on. That does not mean that we have done all that is needed, quite the opposite. We need to speed up this work further, not least now that digitalisation offers new opportunities. The question from Per Åsling was whether the tax system was part of this. Per Åsling knows that we have agreed to carry out a proper, comprehensive tax review. Of course it should be as simple as possible.
i-cb800e623166233e-308	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I ask the question precisely because I know that the Minister has now gone around the country. However, in the Ministry's communication on travel motives, the simplification work has not been lifted. The World Bank notes that while Swedish companies spend 122 hours on tax administration, Finnish 90 and Norwegian 79. There's a lot to do.
i-cb800e623166233e-310	Madam President, I would like That's how it is: Order and order we shall have. Everyone appreciates that. This is one of the reasons why Sweden is highlighted as one of the countries in the world that has the best business climate. It is orderly and reasonably free from corruption. However, that does not mean that we should settle down. It is against this background that we have begun this simplification journey. I would like to stress that it is not just about rules but also about their application. How does it happen when companies meet the authorities? There is also a lot to do. I look forward to continuing that work.
i-cb800e623166233e-312	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hallengren and is a replay. The aid line, which has been providing call support for people in crisis since 2002, is being closed at the turn of the year. The operations are financed by the country's regions and are managed by the company Inera. The decision has been taken by Inera's CEO, on the advice of regional officials. According to Inera, this should enter the regular work of the regions. None of the metropolitan regions are planning a new service as a replacement for the Helpline. The big advantage has been that you can be anonymous when calling the Helpline. Madam President, I would like Does the Minister intend to do something about the decision to close the aid line at a time of increased mental illness and major economic difficulties for the regions? Would it be possible to provide guarantees that a region took care of this with assistance, or an authority? It feels like a very important issue.
i-cb800e623166233e-316	Madam President, I would like I thank you for the question and also for the clarification with which Karin Rågsjö opens the question. It is very important to say that the regions have a responsibility for all health care. This also applies to people who have mental diagnoses or symptoms. They have been given the opportunity to turn to, among other things, the Helpline. It's been very appreciated. When Inera is about to phase out the Helpline, you don't seem to have a good dialogue with everyone who is worried. I think it is important that the regions have it and would like to use this opportunity to say it. I cannot promise here that the government will take over some of the country's health care – that is really what is on the issue. On the other hand, we are doing everything we can to ensure that 1177 works. I would like to take this opportunity to regret the fact that Mrs Inera is taking this decision before 1177 has introduced something similar. It is not my decision, however.
i-cb800e623166233e-319	Madam President, I would like As the Minister said, this is very unfortunate. The funny thing, or uneasy thing, is that the regions themselves have no particular control over it. When you talk to your colleagues, they say, "What?" This has to be checked out, because it's been handled extremely poorly in terms of communication. Of course, you can't pull in a business if you can't accommodate it anywhere else. I am pleased that the Minister is on the track and may ask his Members.
i-cb800e623166233e-321	Madam President, I would like I am not asking my fellow Members, but I note that, in the past, in the 21 regions of the country, responsibility has been shared by Inera. It is not a resource issue that we want to organise it in a different way today. However, when you change ways of organising your business, you have to be sure that it works just as well and preferably even better. That should be why we are reorganizing and changing the business. So far, I have not been told that it is a question of resources. You have a different thought, and it obviously needs to be communicated much more clearly than this.
i-cb800e623166233e-323	Madam President, I would like Energy policy is important for the climate. Swedish energy has unique potential to play an important role in the global climate transition, where Sweden's electricity production is the cleanest throughout the EU. Report after report has shown during the year that we will need more electricity in the future, not less, and then in the right place at the given time. That is not what it looks like today. On this basis, my question today goes to Minister Baylan. The state is the main owner in Vattenfall. Vattenfall has decided to close Ringhals 1 and 2. Two will be closed at the end of the year. The transmission from north to south is not extended and is a bottleneck. In addition, the power and capacity challenge in southern Sweden is large. If we are going to meet the climate challenge for real, has the government done any impact assessment of what Vattenfall's decision to close Ringhals 1 and 2 will mean for Sweden, especially for southern Sweden?
i-cb800e623166233e-325	Madam President, I would like Ensuring that businesses, industries and households have access to electricity is extremely central in a modern society. That is the case today, and that is the case in the future. Moreover, if we are to do so in a way that does not harm the environment and the climate, we must ensure that CO2 emissions and other things are increasingly reduced. In this way, Sweden has been very tense. We have the world's second most low-carbon electricity system. We'll be proud of that. We have also had, until quite recently, a stable policy in which five parties have worked together. It's been amazingly successful. We now have the largest surplus of electricity that Sweden has ever had. We've had changes – nuclear reactors have been shut down in the past – but our surplus has nevertheless increased. What we need to do is increase investment in the networks. That's where we have the problem. We will have electricity, both today and tomorrow, but we must also ensure that it comes to the right place. Then the last thing Sweden needs is more uncertainty – what the Moderates and Christian Democrats have contributed to.
i-cb800e623166233e-329	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely right that we have electricity in Sweden. We have an electricity surplus. But we certainly do not have it in the right places at the right time. If we are to be able to be credible in that companies can establish themselves in Sweden, they should be able to trust that the electricity is where it works best. Is it not the risk, for example, at a ten-year winter in Skåne or Stockholm, that the situation will be extremely strained and that citizens and companies will not be able to trust that there will be enough electricity in the future?
i-cb800e623166233e-331	Madam President, I would like Of course, we must always ensure that our citizens and our industries have the electricity they need. For this we have electricity production that far exceeds our consumption. For this we also have Nordic cooperation. For this we also have cables abroad that allow us to buy and sell to make sure we have electricity. The new thing is, however, that great uncertainty has been created because the Moderates and Christian Democrats have left the cross-block cooperation. I'm sorry about that. I believe that this is the greatest risk to nuclear power and to Sweden's energy supply in the long term.
i-cb800e623166233e-334	Madam President, I would like My question I ask Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren: How does the government view the increase in private health insurance policies? It is individuals who increasingly take out insurance, and it is individuals who receive such insurance through their employers or trade unions. The reason for this is that the long waiting periods for diagnosis and treatment in public health care are not accepted.
i-cb800e623166233e-337	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Mr Westerholm, for a really important issue! In the short term, one can think about the consequences of private funding for health care and what other care it crowds out. However, I am particularly concerned in the long term because it has consequences that we do not make the best use of our common resources to increase accessibility for all and that we do not receive care as needed, but gradually receive care according to payment capacity. I am very concerned about this. I think we need to face this with increased accessibility and better treatment – I do not like the word service, because it is not a service to receive care but a right to pay taxes. We therefore need to make changes in primary care and use digital solutions to ensure that people experience accessible healthcare so that there is no need for private health insurance.
i-cb800e623166233e-339	Madam President, I would like Our healthcare is based on solidarity-based funding and equal care. For example, year-long people and people with low pensions are exposed to double threats, so to speak, and have to wait longer for care. This is extremely serious, so there is a need for fairly rapid changes.
i-cb800e623166233e-340	Madam President, I would like I am of no other opinion than that there is indeed a great danger to our jointly funded health care system if private health insurance is increased and creates a sour cream or an alternative route into health care. I am happy to continue the dialogue with Barbro Westerholm and other members of the Riksdag on limiting private health insurance and ensuring that it is general welfare and health care that governs as needed.
i-cb800e623166233e-342	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Baylan a question. During the last parliamentary term, the government made major efforts to enable the whole country to grow and develop so that we get a strong and equal Sweden. But we need to do more. I therefore wonder what economic policy initiatives you consider necessary for the whole country to live, beyond what we have already done.
i-cb800e623166233e-343	Madam President, I would like Among the concrete proposals at the Riksdag's table is a further investment in Almi, which helps companies to come to and grow abroad. In addition, we have major investments in skills provision and education abroad. I also believe, Madam President, that the great challenge of climate change that we now have before us is an excellent opportunity for the whole of our country, not least because we are a country with great natural resources that could make a good contribution to this transformation. It is good for the transition, but it also creates new jobs and growth. A concrete example of this is the reduction obligation we have implemented. It is about getting more biofuels, not least from the residual products of the forest that exists throughout our country.
i-QQhWH3qs7HVDWFXKvsejKD	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ibrahim Baylan, for your answer! This week we were able to read at home that Södra Skogsägaren and Ikea are investing more than 300 million over a ten-year period for master's programmes, professorships and research. I would like to ask the Government how he views this initiative and what else we could do with it.
i-cb800e623166233e-347	Madam President, I would like We have started collaboration programmes with the industry to add to the efforts made. I am very happy when I hear about the type of investments Ikea and Södra Skogsägaren make. It helps both to create more sustainable development and to create jobs and growth that we can also export to other countries. It is really needed in a world where the climate issue is so big.
i-cb800e623166233e-349	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Minister of Enterprise Ibrahim Baylan. Last spring, the Minister of Economic Affairs met representatives of environmental organisations, and a petition with more than 45 000 signatures was handed over. The signatories demanded that the state forest company Sveaskog tighten up. The requirements were that all forests with high natural values should be protected, that Sveaskog should be a role model and be at the forefront when it comes to clean forestry and that the yield requirements should be lowered. The day before yesterday, new demands came. These included changes in ownership directives, the phasing out of the cormorant and peace-making and the peace-keeping of all forests with high natural values. At the time of the dedication Ibrahim Baylan said that he was not so familiar with forestry issues or Sveaskog. But I guess Ibrahim Baylan has now got into the questions and wonders how he believes that Sveaskog can actually be an example when it comes to phasing out the clearings and stopping fellings in the natural forests.
i-cb800e623166233e-351	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rebecka Le Moine, for an urgent question. I would say that Sveaskog is in many ways an example. Does this mean that they are perfect? No, of course not. It is always possible to develop the business. Sveaskog and how they manage the forest are also subject to the January agreement that our two parties together with the Center Party and the Liberals are behind. This means that we will work fairly closely with Sveaskog, both to ensure that we can develop the business and to protect protective forests. We in our country must be able to keep the balance between sustainable forestry and forest management so that it benefits both jobs and growth as well as climate change, not least with regard to what I mentioned in the previous question, to change the transport sector, where biofuels from forest residues will be needed.
i-cb800e623166233e-353	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ibrahim Baylan, for your answer! It sounds like a repetition of an earlier answer in the same area at a previous Question Time here. Since the last Question Time, Sveaskog has reported logging forests with very high natural values. On issues from the environmental movement, they have not been able to report the conservation assessments that they have said they should carry out. I brought with me a list of ten logging-reported forests with suspiciously high natural values. I hope you want to look at the list and take the necessary steps.
i-cb800e623166233e-356	Madam President, I would like I think most people realise that there are many different interests to be balanced. We have a great need to change, not least the transport sector. We have a forestry that has made the forest grow over the last hundred years and which also enables us to use it responsibly. At the same time, there are protective forests that we are all concerned about to remain for future generations. We need to continue working on this balancing act, both in Sveaskog and in forestry policy as a whole.
i-cb800e623166233e-359	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Secretary of State. In fact, one could ask her quite a lot of questions, Madam President – about why the cabinet secretary has been replaced or how it is that a former ambassador in China appointed by the government has been prosecuted. But this is not what I was going to raise questions about. I have read a debate article in today's South Swedish Dagbladet and Helsingborg's Dagblad, which draws attention to the threats that exist in Europe today in terms of democracy and openness, but also the murder of digging journalists. The latest example is that the Prime Minister of Malta has announced his resignation because he is now being linked closer to a journalistic murder in his country. It's a social democrat. Similar things have happened in the Czech Republic; there is also a social democrat. This cannot be entirely alien to Ann Linde, who has been active in the European Social Democratic Organisation. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore: what does the Swedish Government intend to do in relation to countries such as Malta, where the government is linked to murder?
i-cb800e623166233e-362	Madam President, I would like I would be happy to answer the first two questions and hope that I will have the opportunity to do so later. When it comes to journalists and the threats to which media people are exposed, it is extremely important to address this. Therefore, the government is now launching a democracy initiative, Drive for Democracy, where media freedom and journalists' security are a key theme. Of course, when murder has taken place, police officers in each country will be able to deal with the perpetrators and bring them to account. This applies to all countries and regardless of the political color of a government.
i-cb800e623166233e-366	Madam President, I would like 30 billion kroner is missing for welfare. Every other municipality will save those who most need the help of society. It is not acceptable that Swedish pensioners are forced to pick cans and freeze or that they do not get proper food every day, if they are even lucky enough to get the food they should have every day and do not become without a week because they have been forgotten. This is happening at the same time as the Iraqi Minister of Defence seems to have received contributions from our welfare, while violence and crime are increasing and while IS terrorists are walking freely on our streets. I therefore ask: Does the Minister of Social Affairs think that the government has created a safe, safe and inclusive society for Sweden's pensioners?
i-cb800e623166233e-368	Madam President, I would like I do not know when to be surprised by a Swedish democrat in the pulpit. The fact that there would be any connection between pensioners having low pensions and IS terrorists in different places in the world, even in Sweden, is really creating contradictions that I do not see. We have challenges in this country, which we have had for a long time. Some of them we have come to terms with. Designing Swedish welfare so that people feel secure is our absolute ambition. It is about health care, it is about care for the elderly, it is about security systems and it is about social services. I can give examples of what the government is actually doing to improve the finances of pensioners, because that is what Ann-Ann-Christine From Utterstedt started with. It is to increase the guarantee pension, to reduce the pensioner's tax and to introduce an increase in the housing supplement into the pension system. As a result, the lowest pensions are actually higher. I think it is a better start to go that way instead of pitting groups against each other.
i-cb800e623166233e-372	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. In a written answer to a question from me concerning the closure of Sis Juvenile Home Lövsta, which was closed nine months ago, she replied that it was closed because of health and safety reasons and the safety of the young people placed. Two consequences of that decision are that the premises are currently empty, at an annual cost of around 10 million, and that a number of key people are still employed but are engaged in cleaning instead of providing care and support to young people. Other staff are also engaged in something other than support and care for young people. Does the Minister think it reasonable for Sis to have empty premises that cost many millions instead of being used for the care and support of children and young people?
i-N3mG6CJ8NpaBEbds5rTffV	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Martina Johansson, for the question! It is reasonable that the facilities used by Sis for the care and treatment of young people are appropriate. It is also reasonable that good quality activities can be carried out, that staff can feel safe and that young people treated at home feel that it is an environment that is good enough for the purpose of being placed there. This was not the case with Lövsta. There were major problems, just as Martina Johansson described here and as I have written in my question answer. It is very rare to take the measure of even closing a home. In this case, I'm glad they did. It would have been much worse if the business had been allowed to continue. It is clear that the ambition is not to have empty premises that cost taxpayers a lot of money or that staff should not work. I cannot answer exactly how these premises will be used in this Question Time. But it is clear that the agency is working to make better use of both the resources and the premises.
i-cb800e623166233e-380	Madam President, I would like On several occasions, on behalf of the Left Party, I have highlighted the worrying developments in Chile. During the autumn there have been widespread protests against inequality in the country. The protests have been met with brutal violence from the police and the military. It evokes unpleasant memories of Pinochets's military dictatorship. 26 people have been killed. Over 11,000 have been injured, 280 of which have been damaged in the eye by rubber bullets. 15 000 have been arrested. And the police use of sexual violence has quadrupled. It is time for Sweden to raise the voice of Chile's people. Minister of Foreign Affairs Ann Linde should call Chile's ambassador to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and condemn the violence and state of emergency and have deployed a military force against ordinary people. The government should demand that the EU pause the update of the Association Agreement with Chile. And Sweden's arms exports to the Chilean military should be stopped.
i-BrwaoXzBiHfsyfEJCWAz1d	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Håkan Svenneling! I have spoken on several occasions about the situation in the country in order to emphasise the importance of respect for human rights and the fact that the authorities do not exercise disproportionate force. Issues of democracy and human rights are constantly discussed in our contacts with Chile, including with the Embassy. In 2017, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs published a report on human rights, democracy and the rule of law in Chile. These included economic inequality, segregation and police brutality. The report will now be updated, and next year the events of recent months will be part of that review.
i-cb800e623166233e-386	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister for Development Peter Eriksson. I believe that many of us politicians should do everything to prevent tax evasion and that it is particularly important when it affects poor people. The EU therefore produced a proposal for country-by-country reporting for multinational companies, so that they can openly account for their profits and how much tax they pay in the countries in which they operate. Unfortunately, Sweden, together with Cyprus, Luxembourg and Malta, recently blocked that proposal in the Competition Council. According to both the Commission and the Finnish Presidency, this is a matter of accounting and not a tax issue. So it is not a question of levying taxes but of accounting for them. And such reporting already exists for the banking sector. Why, then, should there not be for multinational companies, as is being proposed here? The environmental party promised in the election movement to be in favour of country-by-country reporting. Why don't you keep your promises to the poorest?
i-cb800e623166233e-390	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Christian Democrats for not having so far put up in the campaign that the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats have in terms of reducing aid and removing the 1% target. As this is a purely tax issue, I am handing it over to the Minister responsible for answering general questions.
i-cb800e623166233e-392	Madam President, I would like Now the question was put to the Green Party. But, of course, I am responsible for the government. Unfortunately, I have not been involved in this matter. But I will see to it that Mrs Pethrus receives an answer to her question, which is at a rather detailed level.
i-cb800e623166233e-395	Madam President, I would like One of my strongest experiences as an elected representative was when I visited two women in a prison in Phnom Penh. They had been locked up indefinitely without trial for defending the right to their land that the government had taken from them. I still feel the powerlessness that I felt there in prison when there are reports from Cambodia of increasingly authoritarian practices from the Hun Sen government. Sweden is one of the largest and most long-standing donors to the country. That's great. But unfortunately Prime Minister Hun Sen sometimes takes Swedish aid to state institutions to revenue so that Sweden would support his hideous regime. How does the government intend to ensure in the new country strategy for Cambodia that aid really goes to the hard-tested people and to civil society, which has an increasingly dwindling scope for action? That is the question I put to the Minister for Development.
i-cb800e623166233e-398	Madam President, I would like I think it is perfectly reasonable to ask me this question. Developments in Cambodia are very worrying. The free word is suppressed, and people are being oppressed in an unacceptable way. This will cause a lot of concern in the future. Sweden has long been in Cambodia as a donor. We are directing aid strongly towards civil groups and civil society. We try to give support to those who want to express their views freely. These often stand in opposition to the government. I would like to take this opportunity to say that Swedish aid is not granted as aid to the government. On the contrary, we are concerned and concerned about developments. We are about to draw up a new strategy for Cambodia on aid activities. This will be reflected there.
i-cb800e623166233e-403	Madam President, I would like I would like to address a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It is about Russia and Ukraine. The leaders of Ukraine and Russia have met to have a conversation. It was done in Paris and in Normandy format. This is, of course, very welcome so that there can be an end to Russian aggression against Ukraine. What has happened with this is that the parties agreed that the Minsk Agreement applies. The Presidents of the various parliaments have also spoken out and said that the Minsk Agreement applies. Zelenskyj has also made contact with the President of the European Council, Mr Michel, and has called for the EU to continue with its sanctions against Russia. I see this as a very important issue, because if there is to be a sustainable agreement, Ukraine needs support. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs intend to continue working to ensure that Sweden assists the sanctions against Russia?
i-cb800e623166233e-408	Madam President, I would like Yeah. Let me elaborate the answer a little. We are very attached to the sanctions. In our opinion, they should not be changed until the Minsk Agreement is fully fulfilled. We have had the opportunity to express this. I have met both the Ukrainian and the Russian Foreign Minister. The Prime Minister was also recently in Kiev. We have then assured Ukraine of our total support for further work against the Russian annexation of Crimea and the aggression in eastern Ukraine. In no way do we want to dissolve or reduce the importance of sanctions against Russia, despite the fact that such proposals have come up in the EU.
i-cb800e623166233e-410	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Ibrahim Baylan. We are all against violence against women, but when we talk about the consequences that have to face those who commit the crimes, the tone changes. Today, more than one in three women aged 20 - 24 reports that they have been victims of sexual crimes. Almost every other woman in the same age group reports that they have very or quite often taken a different path due to concerns about crime. Recently, two young women, Emilia and Wilma, were found murdered. It is clear that the greatest threat to women in Sweden today is not about quotas for company boards, shared parental insurance or something that has been put forward in a feminist high-ranking pretend theory. The real threat is out there in the real world. It is not acceptable for women to feel this uncertainty in Sweden. If the goal is really to have an equal society, it is serious that life is limited because of concerns about being subjected to crime. This mainly affects individual women, but ultimately it is a problem for all of us. What is required for the feminist government to take this seriously? You've had a number of years now.
i-cb800e623166233e-414	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Katja Nyberg, for an urgent question! Of course, we will do our utmost to ensure that women in our society feel safe. There are no shortcuts, but we must ensure that crime is prevented and prosecuted when they occur. It is against this background that for almost five and a half years the government has increased its resources to the police with the aim of making 10 000 more police workers. It is also against this background that we have tightened up a large number of penalties for it to be prosecuted when someone has committed a crime. It should be clear what society thinks about the issue. Does this mean that everything is thus solved? No. I believe that we must constantly work to ensure that we have a society that works for both men and women. There is no doubt that security is central to the government's work.
i-cb800e623166233e-417	Madam President, I would like Negotiations are currently under way on a new supplementary agreement to the Convention on the Law of the Sea with the aim of creating a new system to protect biodiversity in international waters. International waters or seas outside national jurisdiction cover over 40% of our planet and are regulated by a fragmented regulatory framework. This results in a rapidly downward spiral for our seas and their lives. The Supplementary Agreement is important and will be the basis for achieving our global maritime goals. As far as this negotiation is concerned, it is completely silent from the government towards the Riksdag, and by all means also. I have found a record of the last parliamentary term in which the Committee on Foreign Affairs was informed about the negotiations. Nevertheless, in a previous reply to me, the Minister has said that Sweden is very active in the negotiations. My question to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde is therefore as follows: how is the government pushing ahead in the negotiations, and can the Parliament expect to be informed more regularly by the Minister on matters relating to this negotiation in future?
i-cb800e623166233e-421	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Elin Segerlind, for an important question! Greenpeace has been standing outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs every Wednesday for a long time and alerting us to the issue. I've also been out talking to them. Sweden is a driving force in the negotiations on the law of the sea in order to protect a much larger area. I believe that this is now about 1%, and we want to go up to 30%. That is something we support. I have absolutely no objection to coming to the committee and talking about the issue. Just call and I'll come and tell you more. This is done, of course, in close cooperation with Minister for the Environment and Climate Change Isabella Lövin. Maybe they can both come?
i-cb800e623166233e-424	Madam President, I would like Once again, the government has been forced to back down from a bill on breathing and gavage. People get hurt while the government tries its way between different legal engineering solutions. Much more is needed for people with disabilities to breathe out. Last week, on International Disability Day, the Minister of Social Affairs spoke in the following way: We've been there a little too long. That's why it's my priority one, two and three this term of office to make the assistance work well again. ..................................................... Madam President, I would like When assistance does not work well enough, there are people who do not get the support they need to be able to eat, get dressed, go to the toilet and be part of the community. The proposal in the January Agreement is not enough to fix this. Will the Minister of Social Affairs make his words a reality and make the necessary legislative changes to ensure that all the basic needs are fully supportive?
i-cb800e623166233e-427	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Steensland, for the question! Thank you for coming back, and not just in this forum! A minute is far too short to discuss this. I think that Pia Steensland and everyone else understand that this is not the time to think about new solutions and ideas or to tell us what the government intends to do in addition to the January agreement. What is stated in the January Agreement, the government's cooperation with the Center Party and the Liberals, applies. We are not saying that that is the only thing we will do, but that is what I can say today. I want to use my last 30 seconds to say something about the fact that we are once again forced to back down. I wish we didn't have to. I am not a lawyer, nor should anyone in this House need qualifications. Lawyers are there to ensure that what we politicians want is also what is expressed in law and what is to form the basis for the decisions that are then made. I very much regret the detour that has arisen. I wish we hadn't done this. However, I am pleased that we are making a change so that it does not go wrong.
i-cb800e623166233e-432	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Foreign Affairs Ann Linde. In recent weeks Iran has been shaken by the most extensive protests against the regime since the Islamic Revolution 40 years ago. People who have raised their voices and demonstrated for social and economic reform have been injured and imprisoned, and according to Amnesty's figures, over 200 demonstrators have been killed. The Foreign Minister has clearly indicated against the brutal abuse of his people by the Iranian regime. My question is: how will the government monitor developments in Iran now, and how can Sweden, perhaps together with other EU countries, stand up for those who have been imprisoned and who have severe penalties to wait?
i-cb800e623166233e-435	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Rojhan Gustafsson for a very important question. It is indeed the case that the government has been very clear about how seriously we view recent developments in Iran, not least with the high death rates and the many injured. We have also made this very clear to Iran, both here and in Iran. There are rights that are now restricted or removed. It concerns freedom of expression, demonstration and access to the Internet. We must return to a situation in which these rights are respected. We have also worked in Europe to get a united approach to the issues of Iran. Our view of human rights and the rule of law is well known. The situation in Iran remains serious, and so we must continue to point this out and address it with Iran and in the European Union.
i-cb800e623166233e-438	Madam President, I would like Incorrect payments of social security benefits cost taxpayers over half a billion dollars a year, according to the Delegation for correct payments, which presented its report today. In Sundbyberg, an example shows that the offer of home visits on all new social assistance applications led to a rejection of every four households because they were not entitled to support, even though the people had approved that the social services would come and knew it would come. Now the legislation needs to be changed so that unannounced and systematic home visits are again allowed for social services and other authorities.
i-cb800e623166233e-441	Madam President, I would like Now Josefin Malmqvist does not have a supplementary question, but she will have to come back to another Question Time. But I'm not quite sure I understand how to avoid the wrong payment by making a home visit. It is of course important that you have access to all the knowledge required about the person's income, that you know where the person lives and that you know if the person lives with someone else. All of this, of course, is crucial to ensuring that people who are entitled to and in need of what is society's ultimate safety net, namely supply support, also benefit from it. None of us want you to receive support if you are not entitled to it. Taking all the opportunities available to work and having an income of your own should of course not only be encouraged but also required. However, I can repeat that I am not entirely sure how a home visit would provide the right support. Josefin Malmqvist is welcome to return with a written question, and she will get a better answer.
i-cb800e623166233e-444	Madam President, I would like In recent months, mass demonstrations against social injustice, inequality, corruption and abuse of power have shaken many countries in Latin America, among others. Many innocent people have been shot at, murdered, imprisoned and injured. A feminist foreign policy requires a strong stance and a condemnation of human rights violations. In this case, I am referring specifically to sexual violence in Chile and Bolivia. There is racist violence against and persecution of the indigenous peoples. The women of the indigenous peoples have been humiliated, their hair cut, and their skirts undressed. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Sweden and the UN intend to send a delegation or observers to identify the crimes committed against human rights, particularly against women and indigenous peoples in those countries?
i-cb800e623166233e-447	Madam President, I would like I thank Amineh Kakabaveh for the important issue. What has happened both in Bolivia and in Chile gives cause for great concern. Human rights have been violated. People have been killed. People have been hurt. There's been an increase in police brutality. It's been a military assault. However, the situation is very different. We have protested against this in various ways, both through Swedish protests and via the EU. To have a national delegation we have not planned, as it stands now. On the other hand, we are very keen that the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Michelle Bachelet, should be given the opportunity to continue his work. She has also visited Chile, for example, and has spoken out very strongly against the events there.
i-cb800e623166233e-450	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Social Affairs Lena Hallengren. A few weeks ago I visited the online healthcare company Kry. That's very interesting. I received from a group of very competent and creative people a thorough review of how to work with online care. They described to me how healthcare in some contexts is both more cost-effective and better when it is conducted in an online way than in a traditional way. Then I think we need more of this, not less. If something is cheaper and more efficient, we really want it. I wonder, on the one hand, what the government is doing to make this way of working more comprehensive throughout the country, and, on the other hand, whether these people can be part of the solution to the skills supply problems that we have. We may need to be able to work in healthcare in new ways and other ways than today.
i-cb800e623166233e-453	Madam President, I would like I thank Kristina Nilsson for the question. Using new technology and taking advantage of existing digital solutions is certainly a future for healthcare. Today, Ibrahim Baylan, I and the Minister for Research, presented a life science strategy that includes how to ensure that digital innovations really change and develop healthcare. When it comes to these online services specifically, the question is not whether you should be able to get help digitally when it comes to healthcare matters, but in what form you should get it. I would like the regions to expand their health care in such a way that both primary care and other parts of specialised care can be reached digitally, so that it becomes easy. It saves time for everyone involved, and you feel that the care really is much closer and more accessible. But it should, I think, preferably not be done via a wide-side-about-road, as the digital online services today are.
i-cb800e623166233e-456	Madam President, I would like Christmas is approaching. It's supposed to be a time for all children. But it is far from all children who have a peaceful and joyful Christmas. Some children experience misery when Mom and Dad are failing in their adult responsibilities. It is also a time when health care will see the back of this. Today there are statistics on how many people come into contact with healthcare because of violence in close relationships. It is also possible to produce statistics on how many of those who have children at home. Should these figures be compared with the number of complaints received by social services in connection with events, it is most likely clear that there is a dark number of children who are suspected of being in harm's way. Today, it is arbitrary whether healthcare has put in place procedures for preventing this. It is a question of asking, as a rule, whether there are children in the picture and whether this in turn is followed up with a report of concern. My question goes to Lena Hallengren. Does the Minister not think that this should be a fixed rule that applies everywhere, wherever you live in Sweden, so that fewer children and young people fall between the chairs?
i-cb800e623166233e-460	Madam President, I would like I thank Marléne Lund Kopparklint for the question. Anyone who works in health care, care and school and comes into contact with children and young people they fear is obliged to make a complaint. Health care is by no means excluded. It is important to establish that kind of collaboration and relationships and that you do not feel that it is someone else's responsibility. It is a serious situation, and it is important to pay attention. Marléne describes it as a special time, and it is true. There is a lot going on inside the walls of the home, and if you have the opportunity and get knowledge of this, you should of course act. However, the obligation to report concerns is now in place for all those who meet children and young people.
i-cb800e623166233e-464	Madam President, I would like I address my question to Ann Linde. During the year, we have seen in several countries how citizens, not least young people, demanded democracy, freedom and justice. This has happened in Algeria, Lebanon, Iraq and Iran. Extensive protests have taken place in Chile, and in Hong Kong China is being challenged. Sweden must support the new democratic movements in the world and not let the freedom torch go out, as in the Arab spring. In a shaky world, Sweden should be a strong voice for democracy, freedom and the equal value of all people. In what way does the Foreign Minister intend to support, not least, the demands of young people for freedom and democracy in the world?
i-cb800e623166233e-468	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Jamal-El-Haj for a very important question. Unfortunately, what Jamal El-Haj-Haj says is true. We can show and prove that democracy has recently gone backwards in more countries than it has gone forward. That is why the government now has a democracy initiative called Drive for Democracy, where it will go out to all 108 foreign authorities and launch democracy activities, such as democratic talks. It will bring up the issues in each country in the way that suits it and invite the bearers of democracy, i.e. journalists, NGOs and human rights defenders, to know how Sweden can support them. I have also gone out to colleagues in different countries and asked them to be part of this initiative so that it has a greater impact.
i-cb800e623166233e-471	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying, like Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg, hurrah, fantastic and what a victory, because last night we were told that the mobility package has been negotiated. We have been fighting for this for a long time, and I would not least like to highlight Jens Nilsson from Jämtland, who made an incredible effort to create an understanding of the importance of getting decent conditions in the haulage industry for those who work in the transport industry throughout Europe. When the mobility package goes through, it will provide sjysta Swedish conditions from day one for those who work in the transport industry and have cabotage or combined transport. This will mean that we will have better conditions of competition and order and order. We have fought this for too long, and it is an important victory for those of us who have wanted order in the transport sector. I'm glad to hear that.
i-cb800e623166233e-473	At the same time COP 25, the major, important environmental meeting that would be in Santiago but is now in Madrid. The idea was that transport ministers would also be invited because transport ministers are the new climate and environment ministers. It is the responsibility of the transport sector to ensure that the transition takes place more quickly in order for us to meet our commitment under the Paris Agreement. At a time when the United States and many other countries withdraw from important multilateral arenas and efforts to meet the climate challenge, it becomes all the more important that Sweden and other countries, not least the whole of Europe, assume their responsibilities and show that it is possible. When millions of people are demonstrating on the streets for fear of climate change, we must take political responsibility and show that we can change. It is possible to maintain the ambition to have good well-being and good competitiveness and at the same time to cope with climate change. That's why we're saying we're going to be the world's first fossil-free welfare country. That is why we say that with investment, clear regulations, broad commitments from industries and a handshake with industry and academia, we can cope with this change. We know that the 70% target by 2030 is tough. The other day we received figures from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency that show that emissions from the transport sector are reduced due to biofuel incorporation and efficiency efficiency. But more needs to be done – and we do more. Sweden does an incredible amount to change. We have a broad electrification of the transport system, which is made possible not least thanks to the energy agreement. Since it was reached, investment decisions have been taken in renewable energy for over 85 billion in Sweden alone. This means that we have the biggest electricity surplus ever. This would allow us to electrify the entire transport sector and yet continue to export. This shows the importance of long-term decisions and clear rules of play, but also the fact that we cannot negotiate the transition to climate change. It is there and must be implemented. This makes Sweden a country that many countries watch. They want to see how we manage the conversion and electrification, how we reduce the climate impact of aviation and how we transfer more transport in climate-smart ways. Herein lies the whole idea behind the Ministry of Infrastructure: to have infrastructure, energy, telecoms and broadband within one department to upgrade and modernise Sweden so that we meet the climate requirements, strengthen competitiveness and become a permanent world exhibition that shows that with new technology it is possible to streamline, electrify and increase biofuel incorporation. We can do so in a way that also raises thoughts about modernising the whole view of social planning. In the latest national plan, we raised housing construction as an important part. Four tracks to Jessica Roswall's Uppsala can provide 50,000 homes, and the investment in new main roads thanks to the Swedish negotiation can provide over 200,000 homes. It is a new way of looking at community planning and infrastructure building. Let us take this opportunity to modernise the infrastructure in future to also weave gender equality, equality and climate into the view of social planning. We have a lot of investment ahead of us. At national level, it is more than 700 billion. We have a sharp increase in rail content and large new investments. This is necessary to cope with climate change. On the railways, it's about meeting the capacity ceiling we're about to reach. I am surprised to hear that parties are now changing and do not see the need to build new main roads. In a situation where the capacity ceiling is reached, where Swedish companies want to send more goods by rail and where people want to ride more trains, we need to build more rail. As we choose to set up high-speed trains and new main roads as part of the national plan, we ensure that it does not crowd out other urgent infrastructure efforts. Then we can both have night trains to Åre and trains out into the world. At the same time, we can invest in Norrbotniabanan, Sydostlinken and roads in Västerbotten's hinterland. That's how we build Sweden, and that's how we manage the climate change. On the road side, of course, electrification is most important, with electricity commission, electrification strategy and extension of electrical roads, where Sweden is the world leader. The world's first permanent electric road will in all likelihood be in Sweden. If we can ensure that this is the standard set in Europe, there are also major gains in economic policy. This applies not least to the Swedish automotive industry. Above all, we can switch over so that heavy transport also becomes fossil-free. It is necessary if we are to meet the climate targets and our commitment to the next generation. We're expanding the infrastructure. It's about 30,000 charging points just with climate change money. It can bear to think about in a situation where the Moderates and another party want to remove the climate change money. What about active action and taking action now? We're acting now. It is now that we are making sure to build the infrastructure, it is now that we are renovating and repairing, and it is now that we are creating the conditions for the conversion also for road transport, with bonuses – malus, with the electric bus premium and with the expansion of charging infrastructure. There is a strong commitment throughout the Committee on Transport and Tourism. I think there are many of us who are delighted that Swedish shipping is now being strengthened. It's important. The industry itself sees the need to modernise. It is therefore important to continue electrification and modernisation in maritime transport. I would like to emphasise the importance of the national coordinator for developing inland waterway transport. There is considerable potential here, which in itself can mean that we reduce the pressure on road transport and perhaps also ensure that there is even less climate load for transport in the future. We know that there is a great change ahead for aviation, but the flight is needed. The flight is important. But then the flight must also change. Now I note that some parties have changed their minds and accepted the airline tax. That's good. Let us work together to get clear economic instruments so that we can also tax fossil aviation fuel internationally, so that we at European level have a functioning emissions trading system and so that at the same time in Sweden we increase biofuel incorporation and stimulate the electrification of aviation in the future. It's an exciting development. On the basis of the January agreement, we have shown that we can continue to invest in and increase the conditions for climate-smart travel. It is a national ticketing system, climate declarations, night trains to Åre and to the continent, investments in electricity infrastructure and electrification commission and a modernisation of Sweden that the January Contract Parties take responsibility for. This is in stark contrast to the Moderates, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats, who do not see climate policy as the most important and cannot stand up for long-term decisions. I'm sorry about that. Sweden needs more investment in this situation. It is the absence of investment in the rail system and the modernisation of infrastructure that is the major concern for Sweden right now. We must, for the sake of climate and competitiveness and for Sweden to stay together in all parts of the country, dare to make long-term decisions, whether we are talking about new main roads or, for that matter, electrification of our infrastructure. Our message to those who have now demonstrated in Madrid, at COP 25, or elsewhere in the world, is that we assume our responsibilities, that we do our duty during our time on earth and that we make sure that transport systems are changed. Sweden shows that it can be done.
i-cb800e623166233e-496	Madam President, I would like It's good that there's electricity. It is incredibly good that we are investing in rail. However, it is a bit problematic that there is a lack of power at regular intervals, which naturally affects those who will use the electricity. They want to have the effect when they make the big investments in infrastructure. It is the same thing that rail is good, but there will be a dilemma if we build up a maintenance debt for roads at the same time. No matter what we think in this House, most people who go to preschool, work, hospital, friends and relatives get there by car. They will do so in the future. Only last Friday, I debated with the Minister for Infrastructure about one of the areas that answers my questions more than the speech today, namely the national plan. It's valid for 12 years. I share the view that we should have a positive attitude towards agreements and so on. However, the agreed national plan will be upgraded, upgraded and revised every four years. This means that it needs to be revised in 2022. The answer I have received so far, and I suspect that I am receiving the same answer today, is that the question is being prepared at the Government Office. It feels safe for everyone out in Infrastructure Sweden waiting for the plan to begin. Another question I would like to put to the Minister concerns the situation of aviation. Sweden is a large and long country, and we see how routes are phased out. Business is affected, and people are affected. We Christian Democrats and SKR have highlighted the issue of being able to procure flights locally and regionally. Is this something the Minister is prepared to work for?
i-cb800e623166233e-500	Madam President, I would like Let me first say to Magnus Jacobsson that there will be a tenfold increase in investments in network capacity in the coming years. We are increasing investment not only in renewable energy but also in network capacity. The agreement that could be concluded recently, where the government could present an initiative together with the energy companies, to free up capital to increase investment, is an important part of electrification. This is how we take responsibility, i.e. by creating conditions so that there is capacity throughout the network throughout Sweden. It is worrying if you leave an energy policy agreement and withdraw the basis for confidence in the conditions for the electrification strategy, not being able to stand up for long-term agreements that have been so important to Sweden, whether we are talking about energy policy or, for that matter, other important broad agreements. This is important not least in view of efforts to modernise infrastructure also on the road side. SEK 164 billion is the historically high amount now available for maintenance investments on the way. Similarly, we are also increasing maintenance efforts on rail by 47 per cent. The question I wonder about, if Magnus Jacobsson wants to present, is whether the Christian Democrats pursue their line of not standing behind the construction of new main roads. What is the answer to Jönköping, Borås, Norrköping and Hässleholm? For me and for the government, it is important to give long-term information and to pursue what Sweden's negotiations are working with and leave it as a basis when we then revise a national plan. Some prerequisites must first be known before moving forward in the revision of the national plan. We're waiting for word. What will the Christian Democrats say to Jönköping, Borås, Norrköping and Hässleholm and others who believed what the Alliance Government said? They participated in the Swedish negotiations and wanted new main courses.
i-cb800e623166233e-504	Madam President, I would like I note that I did not get a single answer to my question about aviation and the preconditions of aviation, which, among other things, SRR highlighted about the possibility of purchasing flights in order to ensure that even those who live in parts of our elongated country that are not close to a railway station should be able to get to Stockholm or other agglomerations to benefit from the economic muscle that is there. Thank you for the question on the railways. The Minister and I debated only on Friday, and my statement is the same today as at the time, namely that we have no objection to the upgrading of railways. On the contrary, we are positive. We would like new railways to be built where they are needed, but we have said no to the high-speed train project, for the simple reason that it is not economically viable and does not stick together. We're not gonna throw the money in the lake. We need to make a good effort, and then we need to know when the national plan comes.
i-cb800e623166233e-507	Madam President, I would like This is of course interesting, because the effect of the absence of investment will create significant concerns in the Swedish rail system. That is the consequence when we now hit the capacity ceiling, and responsibility for it must be taken by the Christian Democrats and other parties who say no to new main courses. It is the absence of investment under the alliance government that is at the root of the challenges we now face. Now we are making the biggest railway effort in modern times. We renovate, repair and build new ones. But we also see the long-term need to build new main roads, both for the sake of climate and competitiveness, which only takes place every 100 years. It is important to be able to stand up for such long-term decisions. As far as aviation is concerned, it is well known that, like the entire Committee on Transport and Tourism, I have said that we do not want public procurement for international air traffic, for example. It should be done on a commercial basis. However, within the Government Office, a review of the entire regional airport structure is under way. It is important, because aviation is needed in Sweden. But the flight has to change.
i-cb800e623166233e-510	Madam President, I would like An important part of reducing emissions from the transport sector is that we transport more goods by rail and by sea. It's more durable than transporting on the road. At the same time, those who transport goods by rail are paying more and more money to the state in the form of so-called rail charges. Last year, rail charges amounted to nearly SEK 2 billion, and they are constantly increasing. This doesn't make it easier to move to the railroad. Therefore, the train companies have had the opportunity to get back some of that money in the form of so-called environmental compensation – at least until now. As far as I know, that possibility of compensation expires this year. I do not see any extension of environmental compensation in the government budget and have not heard about it before from the Minister. I would like to know from Tomas Eneroth whether the government will extend the possibility of environmental compensation. Since there is no budget allocation for that, I would also like to know about how much money will be allocated.
i-cb800e623166233e-514	Madam President, I would like It is important to find support functions that enable us to continue to switch road transport to rail and, not least, to maritime transport. That is why we have a freight transport strategy in which we are working intensively to make that transition, hand-in-hand through Pia Berglund's work with shipping but also strategically through procurement structures and, not least, various support functions to strengthen freight transport. Environmental compensation ceases. Half a billion has been paid out in the two years it has been valid. Instead, we are now investigating and looking at the conditions for other types of transhipment aid. We have a challenge, and the members of the Transport Committee may know this better than many others in Sweden, in ensuring that there is space and space for rail freight transport and at the same time there are competitive concepts. We are working on this, and I believe that more people are doing so, in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the railways. I believe that this is an important element for us to be able to achieve the climate targets. It is also an important element for us to be able to get more goods over to rail. We'll need new main courses. That would require investment in rail. That is why it is important, the message that Jens Holm also gives, that the Left Party supports the construction of new main roads, because we need more capacity in the Swedish rail system.
i-cb800e623166233e-518	Madam President, I would like Of course, the Left Party wants to build new main roads – every day of the week. However, this debate is about environmental compensation, and here I am concerned about the Minister's response. In just over two weeks' time, we will be writing in January 2020, and then there will be no environmental compensation for those who transport goods on rails. This means that the possibilities for transporting goods by rail will be even worse in 2020 than they have been so far. The Minister says that this is being investigated, but investigations do not help those who want to transport more on rail. After all, they want to know whether they can be compensated for the ever-increasing charges. I think it is important for the Minister to be clear about this. I think that environmental compensation should be extended, at least until a better system is in place. That is why we in the Left Party have allocated 500 million extra for such an extension. What does the Minister think of that proposal?
i-cb800e623166233e-522	Madam President, I would like It is well known in this House that the Left Party often has much more money than many others. It is well-lawed if you then have the opportunity to spend resources on everything you want. Now we're in government. Together with the January Contract Parties, we take responsibility for a single budget option that is apparently going through in Parliament. An important part of this is the major investments we make in the modernisation of Swedish infrastructure, the investments we make and the steering signals we send out. Rail freight transport is on the increase and will continue to increase with the change that is currently taking place. If environmental compensation ceases, there are other support schemes that we are also looking at. What is important is that no one should doubt the transition that is currently taking place in the Swedish transport sector. I believe that, not least, climate declarations will be an important tool when transport buyers see the clear need to talk about transport going where they do the least carbon or climate footprint and where it is most efficient for transporters.
i-cb800e623166233e-526	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Infrastructure, who is pleased today. It's not the first time I've seen him happy. That's a lot of nice words. As I said in my speech, there is a lot of preparation and a lot of follow-up, and here we heard a lot going on. I would like to take this opportunity to remind the Minister for Infrastructure and the Government that you have been in government for five years now. I thank you for the four-track input. Finally! Of course I'll tell you about it. But it is not fully funded, and it is one of the problems that we are constantly facing. I would like to make another point, Madam President. On behalf of Swedish Public Transport, WSP has carried out an analysis of the socio-economic costs of delays in public transport. The figures speak for themselves. The total socio-economic cost of delays is 8.5 billion. This represents 14% of total traffic costs. Large cities account for 75 per cent. This lies in what we Moderates have tried to say. We need to focus on bottlenecks in commuter traffic. This must be a priority. The government chooses a different path. The government parties and other parties are talking high-speed. I think it's strange. Why do the government and the Minister for Infrastructure choose not to listen to the Swedish National Audit Office, which says that the high-speed project must be put on ice – at least until we get answers that show what it costs and what the public benefit is?
i-cb800e623166233e-532	Madam President, I would like I am concerned when the Moderates try to present a contradiction between investment in new main roads and the arrival of commuter trains or the increase in freight capacity. All of us who work with rail systems know that it is actually a prerequisite that we greatly increase capacity. If the commuter trains are to arrive and the freight capacity is to increase, we need new main roads, because we have hit the capacity ceiling. With new main rail lines, the good capacity of the Södra main rail line may triple and commuter trains will have better conditions – given that at the same time we continue to have a high level of ambition when it comes to railway maintenance. We can actually see an improved punctuality, not least thanks to the investments we make in rail maintenance with a 47 % increase. That is needed, because we come from a period of recurring underinvestment. Jessika Roswall's representatives during that government period chose not to invest in the Swedish rail system, even though the Swedish people want to ride trains more than ever and even though the companies want to send more goods by train than ever. The price of these underinvestments is being paid today in the form of delays. You can also count on what they cost the community. As we now repair, renovate and build new ones, this means that the socio-economic cost of delays is reduced and more can come on time. If we increase capacity with new main routes, it also means that we reduce the climate load on our trips. We dare to take responsibility for this by making the biggest railway effort in modern times. We also dare to take responsibility for the future transformation of the transport system by saying that new main roads are needed to cope with climate-smart travel, improve commuting opportunities and strengthen good capacity. That is how we ensure that we meet both climate targets and competitiveness.
i-cb800e623166233e-538	Madam President, I would like In fact, I am very tired of hearing this whining about historical efforts. That's gonna be a little crazy. It is as if I were to stand here and compare with what initiatives the Göran Persson government made. The fact is that the alliance government made substantial increases in the budget, but that is not very interesting. The interesting thing is that the Moderates and Christian Democrats are spending as much on infrastructure as the government and a little more on electrification, which I would like to ask about. Let us be serious and compare money with money. It is very gratifying that the Minister is satisfied, but perhaps not all of them are freezing on the platform. I would also like to say something about the six lines on electric roads that I mentioned in my speech. Electrification is an important part, which we seem to agree on. Industry representatives have repeatedly pointed out that we on the political side must say where we want to go. I think the Minister said there was a broad focus, but yet there are only six lines of electric roads.
i-cb800e623166233e-541	Madam President, I would like After all, it is not the number of lines without the content of the policy that determines. We're setting up an Electric Commission. We have an electrification strategy that we work with. We are the first in the world to probably get a permanent electric road. We have extensive experiments with electric roads. We have 30,000 charging poles thanks only to the Climate Tree. These are resources that the Moderates want to remove. We are now making sure that we electrify the Swedish infrastructure. And yes, we will need to have a structure in the long term for how we build both electric roads and roads, both to cope with the necessary modal shift in road transport and to ensure that we now have the opportunity to set the standard for electrification of the transport system that the whole of Europe needs. That is why we have agreements with Germany and France. It is to ensure that the transformation that Europe's transport system is now making, as the new Commissioner von der Leyen reports in Green Deal, will also be done with Swedish technology and standard.
i-cb800e623166233e-544	Madam President, I would like Had we been in Switzerland, I believe that rail freight could have increased to the extent that Minister Eneroth is talking about. The problem is that we are not in Switzerland. We are in Sweden. I'm really glad there's a lot of money spent on rail. However, by not prioritising freight transport in Sweden but passenger transport, the likelihood will be that freight traffic flows will not increase more than marginally if a high-speed railway is introduced. Therefore, it is very important that we invest in building today's railway – that we invest in completing double tracks where it is needed and building quad tracks where it is needed to increase today's capacity. The fact that SJ and other players who might take over the high-speed train would release existing tracks to competing companies such as MTR and Snail Train is probably not likely, so it becomes a luxury class on the high-speed railway. Then you have long-distance trains and high-speed trains, and then a lower class with the somewhat slower regional trains. Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I do not believe that the government's investment in high-speed trains will lead to greater room for freight flows, especially when one of the previous speakers, Jens Holm, was able to tell us that freight transport is subject to higher and higher charges, which makes them more expensive. It would be interesting if the Minister could prove me wrong.
i-cb800e623166233e-547	Madam President, I would like It's always h yeart to say someone's wrong, but I think you have it to be honest, Jimmy Ståhl. The starting point for the investments that need to be made in new main routes is that we have hit the capacity ceiling. If we are not able to make significantly greater investments than those currently in the national plan, it will be difficult to increase good capacity. And a triple of the freight capacity on the Southern Main Line is not completely wrong in a situation where companies want to send more goods by train and where we need to reduce the climate impact of freight transport. Even if we succeed in a shift on the road transport side – with electrification and biofuels – the increased transport needs we see in Sweden with the industrial development will mean that we must be able to transfer more goods by rail. Then it is necessary to create more capacity. What the Swedish Democrats are asking for – double tracks and to broaden the capacity of the current systems – we are already doing. That is what national plans are all about. This is what the national industrial pooling is also about. It is the work that is currently going on with the South East Link or for that matter Norrbotniabanan. But if we are to take responsibility for what is the development over the next 10, 20 or 30 years, we must also have the ability to make decisions that last longer than that. Then we must see the need to strengthen capacity. If we do not do this, we will get exactly the class classification that Jimmy Ståhl is talking about, where the long-distance trains are crowded with the commuter trains, which are crowded with the freight trains and crowding them out. It's the crowd on the tracks that gives us a layering. By building more capacity, we free up the conditions for both freight, commuter trains and long-distance trains, so that we can get out on the continent or to our relatives in Luleå by high-speed train.
i-cb800e623166233e-552	Madam President, I would like I sincerely hope I am wrong. I have worked in the logistics industry for almost 20 years and know how important it is to drive freight by rail. In Gothenburg, for example, we had a central station. From there it is about 10 – 15 minutes out to the port of Gothenburg. There they chose to drive goods by rail into the harbour to avoid queue systems and more. Transport of goods by rail is very effective even on short distances. I have my own experience with that. However, I am still concerned that freight traffic will be squeezed out. In fact, we should challenge the Minister to give freight traffic more space in rail traffic – that is, that one could approach a little bit what it looks like in Switzerland. We're out of maintenance money. The Swedish Transport Administration is bleeding and has no money for maintenance. It's alarming.
i-cb800e623166233e-555	Madam President, I would like I'm a little surprised, because the Swedish Transport Administration has never had as much re surs for railway maintenance as it is now. We have never done so much to renovate and repair the Swedish rail system as we do now. It is also now that we are making investments in the port of Gothenburg and in increasing the possibilities of having rail transport out to sea. The conversion that Jimmy Ståhl is asking for is already under way. This is where we can handle it. It is true: we are talking more goods now than ever, and I will honestly say that I am very happy about it. It is thanks to the good strategy that we launched. From a one-sided focus on passenger traffic in Swedish infrastructure policy, we have switched to talking about goods, industrial policy and industrial benefits. This is important, and it is a step forward for us who see that we need to have good conditions in order to both transport climate smart and have good and competitive companies. Having said that, Madam President, I would like to thank the whole Committee on Transport for its good cooperation. A really merry Christmas, you're well deserved too!
i-cb800e623166233e-558	Madam President, I would like This government has on a point-by-point forgotten the countryside and its conditions. This government has recently voted against tax cuts on petrol and diesel. It has voted against a tax reduction of SEK 1 per litre, i.e. one despite the fact that it boils around the country because of the high fuel taxes. People in rural areas, our businesses and our whole country depend on us having cars, buses, trucks and working roads. Instead of understanding this, however, this government continues to tax car owners and road traffic. The government is working to build an unprofitable high-speed train – an expensive and unprofitable high-speed train that will run between the country's three largest cities. Madam President, I would like This government wants to continue to tax the country's necessary road traffic. This government wants those who lack alternatives, such as subways and trams, to pay even more in fuel taxes. This government wants to take your tax money and build an expensive and unprofitable high-speed train. Sweden needs an extension and renovation of both roads and railways, so that they work. But we certainly do not need an unprofitable and expensive high-speed train. We in Sweden also need to invest in the expansion of our electric roads and ensure that we have a charging infrastructure for electric cars that works. This is where we can reduce emissions and at the same time create jobs and growth in Sweden. With the extension of electric roads and charging infrastructure, we can increase both the production and use of electric vehicles in Sweden and also be involved in developing a modern charging infrastructure. It can bring new jobs and growth across Sweden. Madam President, I would like In order to cope with electricity supply and conversion, we must also be clear that our nuclear power is needed. We need to expand it to secure the long-term supply of electricity and to ensure the competitiveness of our important industries and companies in Sweden. With environmentally friendly electric cars and environmentally friendly electricity generation, where nuclear power is a natural part, Sweden will be able to make the transition to a fossil-free society. Madam President, I would like We Moderates intend to continue to fight for the car, for the countryside and for road traffic to work. This is the prerequisite for the whole of Sweden to grow. It is modern technology that will solve the environmental requirements of the future and not the old anti-rural and anti-pollution tax policy of this government. Madam President, I would like People who have to have the car to live and live where they are have had enough of the government's constant tax increases. Madam President, I would like What should the government really be doing? Yes, we should be careful to combat illegal commercial traffic in Sweden. More traffic police are needed to remove illegal competition and to stop illegal shipments of stolen goods and so on. The government needs to grab the alcoboms and make sure they get up to our ports and border stations. We made an announcement about this in 2015, but nothing happens. Today we have received answers. The Minister is pleased. After five years he has managed to get an alcobom up in Gothenburg harbour – strong work! Madam President, I would like Customs must have better powers to stop the exit of stolen goods and the import of illegal weapons and drugs and more. The government is engaged in hunting legal hunters and sportsmen instead of stopping the introduction of illegal weapons into the country. The Transport Committee has also said that it should review driving and rest times and introduce the same rules as Denmark applies – a certain deviation can be tolerated. Nothing has happened on that issue. We have requested that illegal vehicles be trampled in a real way, that is, until fines are paid and errors are corrected. Nothing has happened on that issue. Madam President, I would like Make the role of the traffic police clearer with its own budget and control, similar to the German BAG system, so that we can regulate professional traffic and illegal competition! Madam President, I would like Make sure to expand rest areas in Sweden, so that professional traffic and other road users have safe and secure rest areas! It is not enough to set up an investigation to be completed in ten years' time. We need a workshop now. Madam President, I would like When will the competitiveness inquiry concerning Swedish haulage industry, which the Transport Committee has ordered? We haven't seen any of it during this time. But the Minister has stated that he is satisfied in all other respects. Madam President, I would like Make sure the roads are safe for bikers! This can be done in other countries, but nothing happens to the sosse government in Sweden. We will soon enter a recession, which means that many companies and jobs are at risk in Sweden. Instead of fantasizing about expensive and unprofitable high-speed trains, the government should put its weight into renovating our existing roads and railways and securing our local and regional airports. They are needed for the whole of Sweden to live. Expand the West Main Line so that freight and passenger traffic works! Hurry up the dredging of the Port of Gothenburg, so that we can maintain the competitiveness of the business community and the port! Build and rebuild roads so that we can drive heavier trucks! Lower the petrol and diesel tax, so that Swedish industry can strengthen its competitiveness and thus manage the jobs! Sweden does not need a new unprofitable and expensive high-speed track. Instead, Sweden needs a new government that does not sit and fantasize about unprofitable high-speed trains that are completely without funding. Finally, Madam President, I would like to wish the secretariat of the Transport Committee, the members of the Transport Committee, the President and the President's Office and all the citizens of Europe a really happy Christmas and a happy new year.
i-cb800e623166233e-577	Madam President, I would like I belong to the Social Democratic Party, which Sten Bergheden describes in very strange terms, I must say. I am passionate about rural conditions, and I was on the parliamentary rural committee. That is where we produced 75 proposals. We agreed, but the next day the moderate party came and said: No, we absolutely should not have travel deductions that are distance-based. It's very important to the countryside. I would also like to remind you of everything else that has happened during this period. We have expanded several service offices. We have said no to the centralisation of agencies and only to be located in Stockholm. We moved them out. We will now make sure that you can build close to the beach. A lot of things have happened. Of the 75 points, in fact, two thirds have already been implemented. Rural areas are one of the reasons why I am politically committed. I would also like to remind you of what Mr Sten Bergheden, the Moderate Member, always refers to. It's about the gas. In your proposal on fuel, it is a reduction for all motorists. It's not a rural venture. You say no to the initiative where we lower taxes for those living in assisted area A, for example. You'll say no to that. You want to reduce the tax on petrol, but you want to raise the VAT by 3%. What does that mean for a household? What does that mean for the single mother in the countryside? Why do you want to lower the price of petrol but increase the price of food? What does your idea of conversion look like?
i-cb800e623166233e-580	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg! It's kind of interesting to listen to what you've done. You've spent a few hundred million dollars trying to keep a few service offices. At the same time, you go out and raise taxes on petrol and diesel and refuse to agree to our 7 billion tax reduction on petrol and diesel. We are talking about 7 billion to strengthen the competitiveness of the haulage industry, to strengthen the competitiveness of the business community and to ensure that the people in rural areas who have had enough will get a tax cut in terms of the only way they have to transport – it's about the car. For lorries in this country, it is about 60 000 SEK per year in lower diesel tax. It is about the competitiveness of the haulage industry. It is about the competitiveness of companies. Madam President, I would like We're going into a recession soon. You think it's possible to put out some small portioned stuff and save some small business here and where and say: We should be happy with this. But we are happy to collect this tax money, for them we will use for an unprofitable high-speed train that will go between the big cities in Sweden. This does not buy the Swedish people. We have a rural uprising going on in the country. They refuse to accept the path you are taking. Make sure that ordinary people in the countryside can actually afford to refuel their car and can drive their children to activities, school, hospitals and everything! These are people who pay a thousand at the petrol pump every time they refuel, and you take about 60% of that money.
i-cb800e623166233e-585	Madam President, I would like We want to change. In fact, fuel taxation is a way of reducing CO2 emissions. But we also want to ensure that it is fair throughout the country. That is why we are lowering the tax on the citizens who live where we have the longest distance. The Moderates say no to that. When we want to change, we do not do so by reducing, as Sten Bergheden says, the petrol tax by SEK 7 billion and at the same time increasing the tax on food by SEK 10 billion. An increase in food VAT of 10 billion, how does it affect the single mother in the countryside, and how does it affect everyone else who may not be as well off as Sten Bergheden?
i-cb800e623166233e-587	Madam President, I would like Once again, we have heard the same argument. First you collect a lot of tax money – you make sure to collect fuel taxes – and then give some alms back to the countryside through various small investments. You're creating conditions for the countryside that won't last. You ensure that productive forests, which are to be produced and which are to create jobs and growth in this country, are confiscated and placed in reserves. You make sure you don't produce anything anymore out there. It is clear that we cannot have reserves and wolves in Sweden if we are to have a living countryside. We have to have people who live and work out there. We Moderates want to reduce both the petrol and diesel taxes by 1 krona. You have said no to that, and you are making a lot of small investments that will not benefit rural areas to the extent that a substantial tax cut on petrol and diesel would do.
i-cb800e623166233e-589	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden dreams the moderate dream of burning in his diesel-powered SUV at unlimited speed. I see this as a mockery of those young people who are worried about their future, who are worried that we will not have a world where it is tolerable to live, where the climate consequences have not been too great and where you can actually have a safe and good life. We from the Green Party want to create alternatives that allow you to actually live a good life without, for that reason, suffering from poor climate awareness. We need increased capacity on the railways, which are in fact the backbone of a sustainable transport system. At present it is basically full on the main tracks in southern Sweden. We need new main courses. Now that we are building new main roads, it is obvious that they will be built for modern and fast trains, so that you can travel really quickly. Sten Bergheden believes that this would be unprofitable. Yes, say the railway investment that is not considered unprofitable according to the strict socio-economic calculations. We know that they find it difficult to capture all the benefits actually derived from new railways and new main roads. The chambers of commerce in southern Sweden stand up for this project and think it is incredibly important that we invest in expanding the railway. Train operators see a good opportunity to be profitable in operating trains on new high-speed rail lines. Of course, we also see great benefits with increased housing construction and linked labour market regions. This is not just a climate initiative, but an effort that the whole of Sweden, not least those living in rural areas, should be able to live a good life without poor climate awareness.
i-cb800e623166233e-594	Madam President, I would like First of all, I can say that it is strange that the Green Party and the Government do not support our moderate budget, in which we actually invest more in the electric roads and want more electric vehicles. It is about being able to switch to electricity when it comes to our vehicle fleet. Then there is another thing that never comes to light in this debate, namely that we also want to extend the railways. But we do not want to expand with unprofitable high-speed trains. Each bet crown on high speed gives 40 öre back. Other investments on the railways around Sweden – if we put in the Western Main Line, Borås – Gothenburg and others – give 70 öre back per bet crown. The railways are still unprofitable. However, it is less profitable if you build it in the right place and do not build high-speed trains. In addition, this government has devoted itself to delaying the rail projects that actually exist in Sweden. Borås – Gothenburg has been delayed with one to two years because of being in some negotiation at the Government Office and discussing unprofitable high-speed trains. Put this down and return to reality, and stop fantasizing about money that does not exist!
i-cb800e623166233e-597	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden wants more money for the electric roads. The government is already investing in developing pilots for electric roads. But electrical roads don't expand capacity. A double track corresponds to 15 lanes. Of course, we need increased capacity both for people and for goods on the railways. Sten Bergheden also says that he wants the railway to be expanded. But he does not specify how and how he could make this work. The electric car, folks, will never drive 200 miles an hour. We need to have a robust system so that we can transport both many people and a lot of goods in a climate-smart and sustainable way. Everything else, Madam President, is, in fact, a mockery of those young people who are worried about their future.
i-cb800e623166233e-600	Madam President, I would like Just look at the Trafikverket plan. They have a plan for how we can expand the railways in this country to make it work. But the interesting thing is that this sosse government actually doesn't give a shit what the Swedish Transport Administration says. Instead, it is talking about high - speed trains, which even the Finnish Transport Administration has advised against. And the National Audit Office has said that these plans should be withdrawn. You have to realise that you can't sit around and talk about money that doesn't exist and say that we don't want to bet. We want to make bets with the money available. You want to make up money that doesn't exist, and that's a concern. As far as electric roads are concerned, Bil Sweden today went out and said that it will sell much more cars by 2030. The problem today is that the infrastructure in this country does not have time to expand in terms of both electric roads and charging infrastructure. That part should therefore be invested in. Then you can close down the plans for the high-speed train and invest in electric roads.
i-cb800e623166233e-603	I would remind the honourable Member to take care of his language in this House.
i-cb800e623166233e-604	Madam President, my dear friends. We are now going to debate perhaps the most important area of expenditure, namely Category 23 Areella industries, rural areas and food. You're welcome. First of all, while I remember that, I would like to endorse our reservation No 1. I would also like to mention that we have a specific opinion on the budget part. In Category 23, our proposal is not very different from the government's – we spend 68 million more in appropriations than the government does – but I was going to lift some of the parts that actually differ. First of all, I would like to mention what the government calls the peasant package, which includes 191 million and is actually intended to promote the food strategy and make it grow into something good. The food strategy is good; it was a fantastic decision made by the House two and a half years ago, which was before my time. I am still waiting for it to become something of the food strategy, and I think there are many more than me waiting for it to become something of it. But now more money is being added, and another action programme is under way for the food strategy. Of course, we assume that this action plan will contain concrete measures that actually increase food production. On the part of the Moderates, in addition to the 191 million in the peasant package, we have an investment in another rural or peasant package. With more than 100 million, we choose to make some targeted investments in rural areas, in order to strengthen profitability in different parts. The first part of this that I wanted to talk about briefly is that we add more money than the government to the Swedish Forest Board regarding the problem of spruce bark. Granbarkbord has mainly this year flared up to a huge problem that will lead to large costs and major production losses in Swedish forests. Not only does it affect individual forest owners, but it affects the entire forest industry. It also destroys the planning of fellings for a long time to come. Another major problem with the spruce bark drill that has been flagged up very much is that forests in protected areas are not harvested as it should because of the spruce bark drill. In this way, spruce bark is passed on to private forest owners. We believe that the government must take greater responsibility in its regulatory letters and direct a clear command that protected forests must be removed in this situation. One cannot claim that it is because of biodiversity, for example, that one chooses not to harvest affected forests. Although this is not the main source of spruce bark, there are clear trends that it spreads through protected forests, and that is not okay. The extra investment that we are targeting the Swedish Forest Board in terms of granbarkborren means of course that Skogsstyrelsen should have the opportunity to do more preventive work. I think the spruce bark drill is here to stay; problems with the spruce bark drill will be present for a very long time. It usually flares up and then goes down, and then it flares up again. We don't know if we've crossed the top this time. Therefore, it feels good that we are making a bigger effort than the government when it comes to spruce bark. Another investment we make is to add money to forestry efforts. We have received signals, perhaps especially from the Swedish Forest Agency, saying that protected forests are not taken care of and that the values found in protected forests are not preserved. Therefore, we choose to add money to care for protected forests – those that are taken out of production. We are doing this in order to keep down the amount of new protected forests and instead maintain the high environmental values in the forest that is removed from production and perhaps even increase the environmental and biodiversity values in these areas. Another investment that we make in our budget is that we send extra money to the Swedish Food Safety Agency, which should be directly linked to the meat control and the fee for it. We know that there is already money there, but we want to spend more money on it. This is something that we in Sweden already have very high fees for, which directly hits the profitability of Swedish meat production. We think this is a good measure to provide rapid and direct profitability improvements. We choose to invest a number of millions in extra places for veterinarians and animal carers. In recent years it has blossomed that there is a great lack of both veterinarians and animal health care workers, and I think it is important that we make a strong political signal towards this. This is a major problem, not only for farm animals but also for private small animals. However, the problem is greater for farm animals – many veterinarians who are training today want to do small animals, and unfortunately there are not many who want to work with farm animals. How to stimulate it better becomes a later problem, but at least we want to spend extra money to increase the number of seats. Another investment that we have in our rural package does not really end up in this spending area, but it is part of our small rural package. It means that we set aside 20 million extra for traffic search. We all know that wildlife accidents are on the increase, both in terms of material value and in terms of personal injury. Above all, we have a bunch of people in this country who actually take care of these searches during every day of the year and every hour of the day. They have been doing this for many years with a little too low remuneration, and that is not fair to these people. They do great social benefits, for which someone else would actually have been responsible. They put themselves at risk in traffic situations. Unfortunately, too, today they are often threatened by activists. We think it is very good to make an extra effort to give them more money. We'll add another penny to the Board of Agriculture. This is, in fact, an initiative that has taken place in the past in the budgets. It's a matter of regulatory simplification. We want to make a targeted effort to get some kind of regulatory simplification commission from the Swedish Board of Agriculture, where the state authority invites actors such as government agencies and traders and invites wide-ranging to resolve once and for all the problem that we are talking about every year in every debate. We want to reduce the red tape, bureaucracy and administration, but nothing happens. We think this is a good effort to make for Swedish agriculture, and we hope that it will lead to profitability in the future. Rather, we are convinced that it will lead to improved profitability. In the previous debate, there was another rural effort which is not really in this area of expenditure either. Nevertheless, I would like to mention it, because it is an important part of the effort in rural areas. We are investing SEK 7 billion in reducing fuel taxes by SEK 1. This hits the countryside in particular. That's where it's most useful-- where people have a long way to go and where they don't have any options. Primary production is the most dependent on large, heavy trucks – trucks that, with this reduction in fuel taxation, might have a cost reduction of 60 000 to 80 000. That cost would otherwise have affected the primary producer, and that is why we think this is extremely important. Primary producers are barred with poor profitability and are given the opportunity to reduce transport costs in such a situation. It's not that we don't think we need to change eventually, but right now there's no alternative. Then there is no reason whatsoever to burden our traders and people in the countryside in a far too heavy way. After all, it is rural areas that will deliver much of the solution to the problems that we want to solve for the future. That's why this is a very good bet. Madam President, I would like I think I'll settle for it. I'm sure someone disagrees.
i-Y43JDvjV1eSMhQtgXW2VMb	Madam President, I would like Thank you, John Widegren, for an interesting speech! The honourable Member suspected that there was someone who disagreed. There are a lot of things that you can agree with, but I wonder, above all, about some things that I do not think are connected. The honourable Member mentioned additional veterinary training places. However, there is no increase in veterinary field operations, and at the same time there is a reduction in SVA. With everything we know about the animal diseases that are now rampant around the world and that are also at risk of spreading in Sweden, I think this plays a bit funny. So I wonder, how is this connected?
i-cb800e623166233e-631	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Hanna! I'll explain to you how it's connected. I also know that there is a small reduction in the budget there. It really depends on what is commonly called the PLO. Nevertheless, the effort is directed towards more veterinary sites, which we want, even if we do not increase the budget. I also see major problems with the diseases that are now around us and that are approaching at incredible speed. One example is African swine fever, which is approaching our borders. However, there are a number of authorities that will be involved in drawing that load as it approaches. In addition, many of our non-profit organisations will need to help. As far as research into these diseases is concerned, I think we are already in a good position today, so we do not need to set aside any additional funds for that. Rather, we need to have a thought-wise good organisation that is prepared to deal with the diseases when they come.
i-cb800e623166233e-635	Madam President, I would like I thank you for your reply and I think that we will probably meet again this evening, me and Mr Widegren, because I maintain that this sounds a bit incoherent. I think it sounds strange that this issue is not dealt with differently in the Moderates' budget, making sure that you also seem to have something of a banknote press in this context.
i-cb800e623166233e-636	Madam President, I would like I didn't quite get a question. I do not even want to comment on the issue of banknote printing. I'm sure we'll come back this evening. I think I gave a fairly clear answer on SVA.
i-cb800e623166233e-638	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the honourable Member for his speech. I have a question, but I thought I'd do a little reflection first. I find it very interesting that the Moderates have now got cold feet and are increasing their efforts to protect the forest, when last year they made such drastic cuts that we absolutely cannot afford. It can also be noted that the Moderates in their budget fund a wide range of these initiatives with increased VAT on Swedish food. And why do I say Swedish food? Yes, because it is of course the more expensive Swedish food that is hit harder by the increased VAT. It is indeed very strange that the Moderates are making that proposal. I would like to ask John Widegren a question about climate taxes. There is a climate summit going on in Madrid, and now the Moderates want to reduce climate tax in Sweden on the grounds that it would save the countryside. But here the Moderates are wrong. I've asked RUT to look into this, and only 8% of this investment comes to rural areas. Sixty-three percent of the tax cut comes to the big cities. This is not an investment in the countryside; it is an investment in the big cities. I wonder: How can the Moderates move forward with a climate tax reduction that directly makes Swedish climate policy less effective?
i-cb800e623166233e-644	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Gardfjell, for the questions! I hope I have time to graze them. First, in terms of forest protection, we have received a very clear signal that high environmental values in forests that are removed from production are no longer maintained. There's hardly anyone watching it anymore. This is an enormous waste of resources, so when we received that signal we thought it was great to spend money to preserve the high environmental values on land that is removed from production. It is only so that we do not have to take more land out of production and be able to have good environmental and climate work in Swedish forest production, that it has actually been for a long time and that we hope that it will be able to be for a long time to come with freedom under responsibility. That is why we choose to spend money to take care of the forest that is already taken out of production. I think it's a great bet. I almost understood that the question of whether the food VAT would come. We Moderates cut taxes by about 30 billion in our budget. The increase in food VAT amounts to 10 billion. We believe that VAT is a better way of raising taxes than, for example, high marginal taxes. In addition, we believe that a higher level of food VAT does not only affect the countryside, but it affects the whole country equally widely. As we all know, policy is about priorities. That is why we believe that the major tax cuts that we are doing are quite well balanced up the increase in food VAT, because we are investing heavily in other areas. The question of fuel taxes is scarcely up to now, so I would like to return to my next speech.
i-cb800e623166233e-649	Madam President, I would like In yesterday's Värmlands Folkblad there is an article about an initiative in Värmland called Värmland that shows the way – an initiative that is growing. It is believed that the countryside has a lot to help with when it comes to climate change. Increased petrol prices can be difficult in the short term, but in the long term it can be good for rural areas, says this initiative. In particular, it highlights the potential for local products to grow, which can benefit from cost benefits, to strengthen the local structure and become better choice locally. What does John Widegren say to these farmers and traders who have taken this initiative?
i-cb800e623166233e-652	Madam President, I would like I think that any initiative taken with a forward-looking and good idea is good. We do not believe that fuel taxes are just a rural issue. It's about all the people who depend on the car. And we are making so many other efforts that we believe will benefit the climate in the long term, because unless people are involved in the climate transition, it will have the opposite effect, no matter what measures we choose to take. Lower fuel taxes are, of course, nothing that we should be doing indefinitely. We also believe that we should have a conversion but then through electrification. Then we will need more nuclear power, and then we will get to the point. Fuel taxes are part now to strengthen profitability and to enable people to live and live throughout the country. People should be able to get where they want and even get their industries going.
i-cb800e623166233e-656	I would remind everyone that everyone speaks through the President.
i-cb800e623166233e-657	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 2. Now I am standing here and cannot ask for a reservation in favour of the draft budget of the Swedish Democrats, because the rules here say that when the budgetary framework is set, you cannot call for anything that costs more money. And our draft budget in Category 23 Areella industries costs more money, much more actually. I would remind you of our particular opinion. I have appreciated that the Center Party has historically protected agriculture. More boring is that now that agriculture really needs support, the Center Party is not as profiled. But we are all here biologically versed and know that if you are in a JÖK-bo, one or other can be pushed out – not everything can fit. That's how it's connected, I suspect. At least I'm going to take a few minutes to tell you what the Center Party could have done and what we Swedish democrats are doing. First of all, however, I would just like to emphasise that agriculture is not a special interest. I would also like to say that I will leave the forestry issues to Mats Nordberg, who will speak a little later. Briefly about special interest: Swedish agriculture is not a special interest. It provides us with sustainable food, a landscape in which we thrive and work, national independence and security, a cultural heritage, a reduced climate load and, not least, a vibrant countryside. I think it would be difficult to have a living countryside without agriculture and forestry that works. Agriculture is a resource base. This means, of course, that agriculture and forestry concern everyone. Agriculture is under great pressure today. That's why we have to do a lot of things. The food strategy is something that we have achieved together. It is positive, perhaps mainly because we in it for the first time in a long time focus on increased production but also because it contains many initiatives and measures that are very positive. The problem with the food strategy is that the investments and measures do not lead to improvements in farm profitability in the short term. It will take a few years before it comes down to farm level, and then policies will have to take measures that reduce costs, increase profitability and remove obstacles for farmers in the short and medium term. Politics must therefore bridge these years until the light of day for agriculture, otherwise we may not have farmers left when the future comes to light. For this reason, there must therefore be economic margins and opportunities to make strategic investments for farmers. We are doing the following to give agriculture reasonable conditions now, directly or indirectly. We remove the employer's contribution for the first two employees. We're abolishing sick pay responsibility for the first nine employees. We lower the petrol and diesel taxes for private cars and transport by SEK 1 and remove the indexation. We spend a billion and a half on improved travel deductions. We lower the diesel tax on agricultural and forestry machinery down to 7 cents – as far as we ever get for Europe. Then I have not even entered the expenditure area of Areella industries. That's where we put almost 900 million more than the government. When the government makes its rural investment according to the Rural Bill, it does so with SEK 650 million, which last year's budget was intended for agriculture under the Rural Environment and Structural Measures item. This money now goes to broadband, small roads and services in rural areas. That in itself is great, and that's why we match this money. But we are also adding 300 million in the hole where the government took the money, i.e. in rural environment and structural measures. In addition to this, we are fully compensating for the increased slaughter costs that have been incurred, and we are setting up a special agri-environmental testing delegation that should have a deep understanding of the conditions of the agricultural industry. This ensures that the legal requirements for agriculture are applied with an understanding of the circumstances of the industries and that they are proportionate to what is to be achieved. We are also budgeting for animal welfare payments for grazing dairy cows. All this is being done in order to increase the profitability of the agricultural sector and improve the application of the rules in the short term and to improve rural conditions immediately. In the long term, we believe it is important to give agriculture new tools through research and development of farming methods and by disseminating research progress so that it can be applied. It is both about increasing productivity and better and more cost-effectively meeting the environmental objectives associated with agriculture. It is also a question of increasing the exchange of food strategy. We are adding additional funds to this. In addition, we are adding 20 million to food controls to curb fraud in the food chain, which is to the benefit of serious entrepreneurs. In this context, it is also appropriate to point out the importance of policies to prioritise needs-driven research that enhances the competitiveness of the agricultural and horticultural industries. In other words, it is important to have a budgetary policy for agriculture that is a whole and that can cope with both the short and the long periods of time, allowing for a positive change in agriculture and its conditions both economically and in other ways. Nor, of course, do we forget the reindeer industry and the aquaculture industry, which is being added to our draft budget. We also have an increase in game damage compensation.
i-cb800e623166233e-675	Madam President, I would like Perhaps many people believe that the Swedish Democrats would be a guarantor of Swedish food. But that can certainly be called into question. One of the challenges for Swedish production is the availability of labour. Many food companies point out that good rules for labour migration are particularly important in order to increase our opportunities to eat more Swedish food. This can range from manual harvesters to machine drivers and qualified experts in the growing food industry. The Swedish Democrats not only want to make it impossible for Swedish food companies to find labour. They also want to raise the restaurant VAT. They are also the strongest opponents of the Swedish Parliament's food that can be considered the most Swedish of all food, namely the organic, Kravlabelled food. Organic farmers must, to a much greater extent, base their cultivation on local resources. For example, they must not use fertilizers, which are produced using large amounts of fossil energy. They are also not allowed to use chemical pesticides, mostly imported. Animals on eco-farms shall receive their main food from the land around the farm. The fact that the Swedish Democrats pose such a strong threat to the Swedish production of Swedish food, I do not think many consumers have understood yet. But every time an SD politician claims to want more Swedish food in schools or in retirement homes, you can read the budget motion that the Swedish Democrats have raised here in Parliament.
i-cb800e623166233e-680	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the post! When you come out to the farmers and talk to them, you see that there are many who solve their situation with temporary agencies. It works pretty well. You take in temporary labor abroad. One can probably do that for a period when there is a lack of labour from the indigenous population. And why is it missing? This is because there are fewer applicants for agricultural upper secondary schools and other education programmes as well as for SLU. This in turn is due to a lack of confidence in the future, which in turn is due to a lack of profitability in the agricultural sector, to which the government has contributed. We are in favour of organic products. But if you want a good environmental and climate effect, there is something that the Green Party always forgets, and that is that Swedish production is much more climate-friendly than other EU production and even more climate-friendly than production outside the EU. This is even more true for chemical loading. I believe that the Swedish use of insecticides is a twenty-fifth part of the use in the outside world. The figure may be wrong, but there's somewhere in it. This means that those who promote increased Swedish food production contribute to the climate and the environment, while those who make agriculture unprofitable and shut down are a climate and environmental villain.
i-cb800e623166233e-686	Madam President, I would like Many Swedish farmers have switched to organic production precisely to increase profitability. Investing in increased values in agriculture also gives increased values on the market. Organic production in Sweden has really been one of the engines to develop cultivation methods and ideas for how the entire agriculture in Sweden could also become less chemical dependent. That is quite right, as Staffan Eklöf says: Swedish agriculture in general and internationally is very good. What I do not understand, Staffan Eklöf, is why the Swedish Democrats are so angry with the imported organic food. It is indeed such products that we would like to see other countries producing more of. How does Staffan Eklöf view it?
i-cb800e623166233e-689	Madam President, I would like We're not mad at it or at anything at all. We are calm, calm and constructive. You have created rules for farmers that have meant that they have basically only had two ways of getting profitability in agriculture. Either you invest in large-scale agriculture, or you invest in organic farming. The problem with not letting market demand control eco-production, but rather allowing it to be guided by plan objectives, is that if money stops being pumped in, one can get a situation where one does not have the demand for one's products. I see this as a betrayal. Eco-production must basically be based on the demand that exists. Our policy is about creating more paths for development and creativity.
i-cb800e623166233e-692	Madam President, I would like We have no reservations, but I refer to our particular opinion. Sweden is a fantastic country to produce food in. The climate is good during normal years, Sweden's soils are excellent and Sweden's farmers are extremely good. The conditions cannot really be better for cereals, meat and milk production. Yet, Madam President, five dairy producers are closing down every week. Why? Profitability is too low. In a world that more than ever needs food, where droughts and wars knock out domestic food production in, for example, African countries and where Sweden's food production can be one of the solutions, farmers lay down. About 500 000 hectares of arable land are not cultivated. Sweden's trade deficit on food is still over SEK 50 billion. As some of us have mentioned in the past, we in this House have adopted a food strategy, the aim of which is that there should be more food and that food production should become more competitive and profitable. Sweden's self-sufficiency and exports will increase. After two and a half years, we cannot see that any of these objectives have been met, but it is unfortunately exactly the opposite. Sweden still has poor preparedness in case of a crisis or a war situation, and this is of course serious. Just take the capital Stockholm, where the shelves in the grocery stores would be empty after two days! We can understand this, because every other bite we eat does not actually come from Sweden. The only thing we in Sweden are self-sufficient in is wheat flour, sugar and carrots. So carrot cake would work well, Madam President. Here is our neighbouring country on the other side of the Baltic – Finland – a shining star and an example. Although Finland is a member of the EU, they have a self-sufficiency rate of over 80%. Another part of the food strategy is simplification, but there is still no farmer who notices any difference, either with or without the strategy. The regulatory burden increases year after year. Why isn't anything happening? Here we Christian Democrats in our draft budget want to make a difference and make a difference. Madam President, I would like How do we see food production in Sweden? We can see that there are major differences only among the Nordic countries. In Norway, for example, food production is important for a living countryside. In Finland, food production is important for self-sufficiency. In Denmark, food production is extremely important for the country's economy. But in Sweden food production is classified as an environmentally dangerous activity. That's what the environmental code says. Someone might say that it's just a word that nobody cares about and that doesn't make a difference. But when officials from municipalities and county boards come out and call our farmers' activities environmentally dangerous, the farmers unfortunately notice that there is a big difference. We Christian Democrats believe that if we are serious about the strategy we must start to change, and it is extremely important that it is changed in the environmental code. It is devastating that it has still not changed, and my question is: why has the government not changed this? Madam President, I would like In the old days we know that band of robbers went on the ass and stole and destroyed harvests for the farmers in Sweden. Today we do not have band of robbers, but wild boars that destroy for huge amounts of money, low in over $1 billion. Here, we are proposing to the Christian Democrats in our budget an extra 100 million to a programme of measures aimed at a substantial reduction in the herd of wild boars. Madam President, I would like I started by talking about the enormous opportunities we have in Sweden to produce food. Last week I spoke to representatives from Sweden Food Arena, who told me that they had calculated that if Sweden were to invest in Swedish agriculture and food production, 50 000 new jobs would be created in the green industry by 2030. But then, Madam President, it is important that we do not paint Swedish farmers as environmental villains or try to shame a whole corps, as some do, for the sake of the environment. On the contrary, we should thank all the farmers who are doing an amazing job. I would like to conclude by telling you what a dairy farmer named Anette Gustawson wrote in a debate article in Expressen a few days ago. She wrote: We farmers save you in a national crisis, but the question is whether you help us in good times.
i-cb800e623166233e-704	Madam President, I would like "Faith, I want to feel faith" is a well-known line from dear Marie Fredriksson, who left us too early this week. Now I'm not going to stand here and become too philosophical like this in Christmas times, but faith in the future is probably one of the most important ingredients for entrepreneurs, businesses and citizens in general to succeed. And to create faith in the future, good political conditions and political support are a crucial piece of the puzzle. 2018 and much of 2019 have been really tough for many farmers throughout our country. Despite good harvests of both grain and grassland, the 2018 drought has hung this year too, and in some parts of the country has actually been a drought year in 2019. In 2019, therefore, the money spent on drying supports has been important. In total, more than 1 billion have been paid out in support to Swedish farmers in 2019, which in the EU perspective is quite a lot of money. In addition, the diesel repayment has been increased by SEK 1 in autumn 2019 as an additional liquidity support, and from the end of the year the diesel repayment will be 50 øre higher than in 2018. However, in order to achieve the food strategy's objective of increasing food production, new efforts are needed to improve conditions in the long term. That is why we in the Center Party in the 2020 budget, as part of the peasant package, have pushed for another 191 million to implement the food strategy. We in the Center Party see three areas where it is particularly important to really push for the implementation of the food strategy so that the objectives we have set together can be achieved. The first is about terms and conditions. We must ensure that the work of the authorities makes a positive contribution to the food strategy, rather than burdening businesses with administrative burdens. At the same time, we must look at regulatory simplifications and measures to strengthen competitiveness at the level of entrepreneurs. The second area is export. There are many values in Swedish food production, such as antibiotic use, food safety and animal welfare, which should be attractive to many other markets. But then efforts are needed so that we can lift the Swedish food and drink abroad. The third area on which we need to focus is research and innovation. Overall, we are good at innovation in Sweden, but if you look specifically at the food sector and innovation there you can see that we are in place 14 in a European perspective. There's a lot to improve there. The entrepreneurial research and innovation of new products and methods is something that is really needed for us to increase our food production. During the year there has been a strong climate debate linked to food, and the word farmer's comb has gained hold in some places. In fact, I believe that, not only as chairman but also as a member of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, I speak for all of us when I say that there is no farmer's comb in here. We may have different views on how to achieve the food strategy, but I think we are all proud of the Swedish peasantry and the work that is being done around the country. I think many others in this house are too. As far as I am concerned, it goes without saying that the more food is produced in Sweden, the better it is from a global perspective. Both in terms of climate impact and environmental impact, we see that Swedish production is much better than production in many other countries. For example, Swedish milk has a 40% lower climate impact than the global average. But at the same time, of course, we must continue to reduce our climate impact. This applies not least from the point of view of vulnerability, because very many of the fossil-based inputs that we use in agriculture today are actually imported. Today, very many farmers in Sweden are switching to fossil-free and renewable fuels. But with the rules that we have today, it is unfortunately more expensive to run on fossil fuels than on fossil fuels, which of course is a very bad model. Unfortunately, as we all know, it is still quite trivial when it comes to regulations at European level and what they actually allow in terms of the possibility of creating the conditions for renewables. In order for us to find a way forward, I am very pleased that within the framework of the January agreement, C, L, S and MP will soon set up an investigation into how policy can facilitate the transition to fossil-free agriculture, where we see that sustainability and competitiveness must go hand in hand. Madam President, I would like If the Riksdag has been quite in agreement on the broad guidelines for Swedish food production, the forest has been an area with far greater contradictions. During the year, we in the Center Party in the framework of the January Agreement have negotiated a study that looks, among other things, at how forest ownership can be improved and how we can create incentives for better functioning nature conservation where the forest owner really feels respected and involved. Soon, hopefully, there will be a long-awaited revision of the Species Protection Regulation, which is also something that we have pushed for. We very much hope that these investigations will provide a basis for an updated and better-functioning forest policy that can create security and confidence in the future among Swedish forest owners. But one factor that is currently causing a great deal of concern in many parts of our country is the spruce bark drill. Inventory shows that the damage has doubled this year compared to last year. In Götaland as a whole, approximately 5 million cubic metres are estimated to be affected. It's about huge values. This poses a very great risk to Sweden. It is about us being able to cope with the transition to a green bioeconomy, which we all want us to do. Looking south in Europe, we see deterrent examples of how spruce bark devastates very large forest areas. The situation is urgent. That is why I am pleased that there is a budgetary effort on both preventive measures and more urgent measures of a total of 30 million per year over the next three years. Here it is important that authorities, research and industry work together, but also that the state takes responsibility for their land and how they affect surrounding forest owners. Madam President, I would like It has now been just over a year and a half since the Riksdag decided on long-term goals for Sweden's rural areas. Some rural areas feel very good and develop very strongly, but in other rural areas faith in the future shines with its absence. We in the Center Party believe that in Sweden people must be able to live and work no matter where in the country they live. But we also see that people in rural areas pay far too much tax compared to what it is like in many other parts of the country. Despite this, they often have less service and less access to infrastructure and other things that are important to make entrepreneurship and everyday life work. That is why the rural efforts that we have been involved in pushing for in the budget are very important. It is about reduced taxes in parts of the country, better rail traffic and maintenance of individual roads, broadband expansion and continued strong operating aid to grocery stores in sparsely populated areas. We also see that these efforts in rural areas must continue. We want to invest in written off student loans in rural municipalities. But we also want to implement a series of freedom reforms to facilitate the conditions for living and working in rural areas and to give more power to people throughout the country to decide more for themselves. It is about changing beach protection, farm sales and simpler regulations for business premises in rural areas. These are processes which are already under way or which will soon be launched within the framework of the January Agreement. But it is also about the functioning of game management, decentralised management and government jobs throughout the country. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank all the rural entrepreneurs who make Christmas what it is. It is the gardener who provides us with Christmas stars and hyacinths, and the pig farmer who puts knuckles on the Christmas dinner with the Christmas ham. It is the fisherman who gives us herring and other fish, and the forester who grows the spruce that stands so green and neighboring in the cottage. Thank you for your work, and thank you for making our Christmas both good and beautiful! I hope that the budgetary efforts and work under way in 2020, and the additional proposals we are pushing for, will allow you to feel a belief in the future. I would therefore like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-cb800e623166233e-727	Madam President, I would like I have to start with a reservation that my voice may not carry all the way and that it may take a little longer than usual. I have a dialect with long diphthons, and today I have a little difficulty breathing. But I'll try to bring it to you anyway. We build the land in deed and words, clearing its gates and plow its soil. We reap the harvest that the fields gave the timber out of the forest and the catch out of the sea. So begins one of the most beloved songs of the labour movement, which I and many have sung with me to draw attention to all those who every day make efforts to build our country. The inputs we need to build our country are very rarely produced in our cities. Our forests, fields, lakes and seas are everywhere in our elongated, amazing land. Those who participate in production are the guarantors of everyday life and life as we know them. The policy of promoting the conditions for living rural areas, where we can live and work today, but of course also in the future, is a heavy responsibility. Then we must also protect services in sparsely populated areas. Then we must equip Sweden strongly through equal opportunities to run companies. But we must also ensure access to health care, education and care wherever we live and work. It is untenable and unacceptable, as part of the bourgeoisie does, to leave smaller municipalities to their fate or, even worse, sometimes to export low-income people to places where the conditions for work, housing and education are worse than in the municipalities from which they come. Sweden should and must stick together. We will take care of each other – everything else is cynical and completely untenable. Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Committee on Environment and Agriculture's report 2019/ 20:MJU2 Area of expenditure 23 Areella industries, rural areas and food. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions. The Parliament has decided on an overall goal for coherent rural policy where it is clear that a viable rural area with equal opportunities for entrepreneurship, work, housing and welfare leads to long-term sustainable development throughout the country. It's a goal I applaud. The gaps between town and country must be closed. Sweden's rural areas, and all of us people living in them, deserve so much better. That's why it's so important to continue strengthening the service throughout our country. We do this not least by supporting our most vulnerable country merchants, but also by securing state presence from north to south, east to west. The food chain must also be continuously strengthened in order to increase the availability of good Swedish products. It brings us closer to sustainability goals, but it also makes us less vulnerable in the event of crisis or war. In category 23, SEK 19.7 billion is added. Each crown has the same purpose: to build a stronger society, a safer Sweden. Together with the Green Party, we Social Democrats have taken on the challenge of turning Sweden into the world's first fossil-free welfare country. It requires action from all of us, each one of us. But there is also a promise in the goal. It is we who should do it together, and no one should be left in the lurch. Society is man's work. If something's wrong, we can change it. Perhaps the words ring familiar to some of you. They were uttered by Olof Palme and now have a few years on their neck. However, they have rarely felt more topical. The climate is the greatest challenge of our time. It comes to us who are active today to change to have a planet at all to pass on to our children and grandchildren. Social democracy has never shuddered from a challenge. Nor are we afraid to take on the task of changing Sweden and to contribute as much as possible to the transformation globally. For a friend of system thinking, this is simple. Landing in a fair transition is simply about what society we want to live in. For a social democrat, the answer is always given: common challenges are best addressed with common solutions. We will build a more robust and resilient society. It will also be a stronger society and a safer Sweden. I therefore believe, Madam President, that it is important to recognise that a fair transition involving the whole of our country is a political priority that requires resources. Politics is to want, but it is also to choose. In this case, it is important to choose the path, and given everything we know about how acute the climate threat is, each party should be seen based on how we intend to face it. In the light of what science provides, the government has put forward a budget that takes up the challenges we face and that is able to keep two thoughts in mind at the same time. It is able to reform the cost compensation in parallel with investing in efforts to achieve a fair transition. In stark contrast to that is the draft budget that rips apart our country, which pits people against people and lands against shores and gives more to those who already have. It is a necessity to keep this country together and also to allow our green industries to be those who, with reasonable and fair rules of play, play a crucial role in the transition. In the society that we Social Democrats want to build, the soil and the forest are absolutely essential building blocks. In fact, that is where much of the transition will take place. It is of course gratifying to see concrete actions in this context, such as the national forestry programme. We believe that it will serve Sweden well even in the future. Our Swedish crops and our Swedish animals have been mentioned here before. We know that they are world class, and the resources we invest well land in our green industries. I also want to highlight measures that are actually handled in other committees but which also play a role in a Swedish context. Origin marking of meat in restaurants will make a difference in demand. It will also strengthen the nicest Swedish foods. Public procurement is one of my favorite areas, and I believe that there is enormous potential in terms of promoting what we want to see more of in terms of lower climate footprint, shorter transport, less chemicals and lower antibiotic use. Madam President, I would like I also want to exemplify. In order to strengthen the competitiveness of Sweden's green industries, SEK 176 million is added to financing strategic initiatives. The work on the Swedish food strategy, which has been lifted here before, must of course continue with unabated strength. It wins all of Sweden. I would like to mention briefly a few words about fishing, which has received a little more well-deserved attention in recent years, partly because, of course, we need to concentrate on the acute situation in our lakes and seas and partly to protect the fantastic food we can get from the seas if we deal with them with responsibility and care. In the interest of strengthening stocks of cod, for example, the government has fought hard for protection measures precisely so that we can also find cod in our seas in the future. Of course, we must also engage in dialogue with the industries concerned so that we can strengthen small-scale coastal fishing in the future. Sustainable fishing is a priority, and it feels safe that steps have been taken to secure it. Everything points in the same direction: we need to think differently and bigger about food. We need to discover new ingredients and perhaps consume less of some. Food supply needs to become more diversified and resource efficient. The potential is enormous, not least in the context of sustainable aquaculture, where incubators are plunging up around the country at a raging rate. Of course, Sweden should be at the forefront also in terms of sustainable aquaculture. Growing fish, bivalve molluscs, crustaceans and algae is the fastest growing food production sector in the world. There are parties that acquire more resources by pitting people against people or by cutting back heavily on aid. This means that we reduce Sweden's opportunities to act with solidarity and climate awareness in an international context. As a social democrat, I am absolutely convinced that it is possible to hold our country together without pitting people against human beings or climate work here against solidarity work further away. The goal of the world's first fossil-free welfare country is solid. We are moving towards it in the firm conviction that it must be done by keeping our country together by investing not least in green industries, which generate jobs, growth and fantastic food, products and services to both domestic and foreign markets through fair conditions. Now, Madam President, I had intended to exemplify some of the efforts made in this area, but Kristina Yngwe from the Center Party has already done so in an excellent way. I see that I have gone over the speaking time somewhat, and I therefore refer to what Kristina Yngwe so well explained. Instead, I will end by saying that we, who are elected as decision-makers in the highest decision-making assembly in Sweden, are the first to emphasise that country with law should be built. In addition, it is for me, as a social democrat, that a country should be built with cohesion. Sweden is a small, export-dependent country. We are phenomenal on very but extremely vulnerable when we put people against man or city against land. The green industries, land and forest and all the resources there can serve us well. The government's draft budget provides green industries with good conditions for growth and development, but also for a fair transition. In the work for Sweden to become the world's first fossil-free welfare country, soil and forests play a crucial role. Let us jointly equip Sweden with the best possible rules for that journey!
i-cb800e623166233e-752	Madam President, I would like I thought Hanna Westerén's voice was so good that we could talk for a while. It was an interesting and nice speech in every way. That's a bit like the Social Democrats usually do; they speak beautifully and very, far and wide, and then they don't deliver so much. We all agree quite well that we need to increase production in the green industries, and in many ways it depends on profitability. Swedish agriculture is at the top of the world when it comes to production results. We are among the very best in terms of cultivation, but also in terms of animal production, vegetables and other things. We are extremely good at production according to the conditions we have. But that doesn't help. We do not have profitable agriculture in Sweden. It will be a huge problem, especially when we have adopted our food strategy that says we should increase production. That is why, Madam President, I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democrats: is it really reasonable that after two and a half years we still do not see any difference at farm level and that we cannot reverse the negative trend in which we reduce production results? I thought that Magnus Oscarsson described this very well when he talked about the variety of production that is decreasing and decreasing. The budgetary balance is still extremely poor in terms of imports and exports of food in Sweden. Is it reasonable that we still see no results after two and a half years? And how does the government intend to deal with this? When are we going to see any results? When do we turn the production curves?
i-cb800e623166233e-758	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for the question. I would like my answer to the question as to how soon it will be possible to do so immediately. On the question of whether that is reasonable, I would like to answer: No, that is the aim of the government's work. That is also why the strong peasant package has come about, and that is why we are stepping up work on the food strategy. This is precisely because we are going to increase profitability, have a better delivery and a higher level of self-sufficiency. Certainly it has not happened as quickly as many of us would have liked. But certainly we will notice the effect, and certainly we will be able to enjoy even more and better Swedish foods eventually.
i-cb800e623166233e-761	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. The problem is in many ways profitability, as we have already said several times. But we always choose to make things harder and more expensive. That's what we're actually doing now. You could well have agreed to our proposal to reduce fuel taxes, for example, now. It is something that should be temporary, but it has a direct effect now. It has a direct effect on those primary producers who are actually forced to deliver products every week. Whether grain, meat or forest, they have higher costs. And that is not because we are too low in tax terms today, but because we are high. Instead, with our proposal for new taxes on fuels, we would have been normal compared to competing countries. Why do you not choose to do some short intense things that generate profitability directly so that we get on the right foot again? Now we are looking at an action plan that may be five or ten years away before it turns around.
i-cb800e623166233e-764	Madam President, I would like One of the most obvious contributions I have received through all the years I have been politically active and met entrepreneurs from different industries has been: Give us the long-term rules of the game! Right now COP 25 is going on in Madrid. We know our planet is on fire. We need to reset. We have a huge responsibility towards future generations to land in a fair transition. In this context, to start talking about measures that prolong Sweden's fossil dependence and do not give industry incentives to change at the rate that would be reasonable, not to support those entrepreneurs who actually change and thus should be allowed to do the best business, feels completely irresponsible. I think that's the wrong way to go.
i-cb800e623166233e-767	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Green industries should be viable and contribute to climate change and sustainable use of natural resources. Climate change leads to extreme weather and natural disasters, both in Sweden and in the rest of the world. They affect all life on earth. In order to save the climate and create a cleaner future for future generations, we must act. We need to make decisions that make a difference in both the long and the short term. We in the Liberals believe that we should tackle the climate challenge with a mix of crisis insight, confidence in the future and realism. Science, facts and technology development are important elements in finding the new solutions. The market economy and free trade are important for finding the smart and sustainable solutions. Digitisation and the collaborative economy can pave the way for new and climate-smart consumption patterns. We always emphasise the important role that consumers play in the transition. It depends, of course, on what consumers demand and consume and how knowledgeable they are. The climate threat knows no borders, and it requires common solutions – within the EU and in global environmental and climate action. We believe that Sweden should be a driving force. Sweden can show that it is possible to combine prosperity and growth with responsibility for the climate. Madam President, I would like Liberals have a great deal of commitment and a green, liberal environmental and climate policy: to farm forests and soils but in a sustainable way. At the same time, the most valuable nature must be protected, for example through nature reserves and national parks. Endangered animals and plants also need to be protected. I will specifically touch on some of the appropriations in the report where there are important efforts that we would like to emphasise. Many have been in the forest, and I would also like to highlight the importance of the forest. Swedish forestry policy is based on two equal goals, the production target and the environmental objective. Both the state and forest industries have a great responsibility to protect forest ecosystems, preserve biodiversity and safeguard nature conservation and environmental concerns. We consider environmental considerations to be important in forestry. It is important for Sweden with active forestry. But more research is also needed. What are the sustainable farming and logging methods of the future? How do we protect the forest when fires, droughts and attacks that the spruce bark strikes? The report describes how ownership of forests needs to be strengthened and protected. This has also been the subject of others. In July 2019, the Government appointed an investigation to strengthen ownership of forests and propose new, flexible forms of protection and compensation. The study will also suggest how Sweden's international commitments on biodiversity can be reconciled with a growing circular bioeconomy. Together, the proposals will promote a growing forest industry and sustainable forest growth with good and secured access to national biomass from Swedish forests. The burr has been mentioned earlier in the debate. There have been incredibly big worries in southern Sweden due to the heat and drought. For the first time there are attacked forests that are not connected to storm traps. A total of 2.2 million cubic metres of forest are estimated to be affected. The losses can be compared to the more than 2 million forest cubic metres that were damaged by fires in 2018. The State has a major responsibility for measures to reduce the spread of spruce bark, not least from protected areas. Therefore, a total of SEK 30 million will be added to deal with the forest damage and to support the work to combat infestations by spruce bark. The budget bill also includes an investment to Skogsstyrelsen of SEK 2.2 million via the national forest programme. Those funds shall also be used for measures to combat large-scale infestations of spruce bark. Madam President, I would like I would also like to mention something about invasive species. In order to preserve biodiversity, a policy is also needed to limit the threats posed by invasive alien species. Invasive alien species have been identified as one of the main threats to biodiversity. According to the budget bill, in 2018, Artdatabanken carried out a risk assessment of 1,033 species. Of these, 877 were considered to have a negative impact on biodiversity in Sweden. A total of 257 species were considered to pose a high or very high risk as invasive alien species, and 53 species were considered potentially invasive. The debate often mentions lupin, giant bear loka, park slide, raccoon dog and signal crayfish, but there are many more. Therefore, it is gratifying that the allocation to work to limit the risks of invasive species is proposed to increase by SEK 400 million from 2020. Madam President, I would like One area that has not been mentioned very much in today's debate is the promotion of reindeer farming. A viable reindeer nutrition and other Sami industries are a prerequisite for a living Sami culture. The actions in this area are estimated to contribute to the achievement of the overall objective of the common policy, which is, admittedly, shared between different areas of expenditure. The challenge for the future of reindeer husbandry is to manage and find a balance between the impact of ongoing and future activities – including forestry, wind power, mining, tourism and infrastructure – and reindeer husbandry needs for pasture land. Climate change and extreme weather also have a significant impact on reindeer farming activities. Continued development of reindeer husbandry plans is therefore important, but also the opportunities for the Sami and Sami communities to participate in consultations on the establishment of different activities. The Association's Climate Adaptation Action Plan demonstrates the need for flexibility to reduce vulnerability. A long-term viable reindeer nutrition contributes to the environmental quality target Storslag mountain environment, produces demand for climate-smart food and contributes to the preservation of other ecosystem services. These values, in turn, have an impact on, among other things, the tourism industry in the regions concerned. The budget bill also addresses coexistence with predators. There I would like to mention that the amount in 2018 for carnivores compensation and preventive measures in the reindeer industry was approximately SEK 58 million. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that the Liberals have a substantive political agreement, the January agreement, including budgetary cooperation with the Center Party and the government parties Social Democrats and the Green Party. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-cb800e623166233e-789	Madam President, I would like Today a very happy news was presented. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency published new statistics showing that climate emissions are now decreasing in Sweden. A strong climate policy in all sectors is now what is needed to further reduce emissions and to achieve climate targets. Leader Höga Kusten spoke in Dagens Nyheter recently and emphasised that the modern sustainable lifestyle that exists in rural areas is extremely important. In fact, rural areas have a key role to play in the work on climate change. Madam President, I would like Just a few weeks ago another happy news came: Biodiversity provides greater yields in agriculture. Agricultural fields with a diversity of pollinators and other utility organisms yield higher yields than fields with little diversity. This is shown by a new international research study from 27 countries. The researchers analysed pollination by wild insects and pest control by the natural enemies of pests. They saw that species-poor landscapes with one-sided crops led to lower yields. The investment in pollinators now made in the state budget is extremely important for Swedish production and is something of a starting point for an approach where biodiversity can be given higher priority in agricultural policy as well. There are great gains in increasing organic production in Sweden. This production has come a long way in terms of the development of robust farming practices that are not dependent on imported inputs. Investing more in organically is one of several pieces of the puzzle to reduce society's vulnerability and achieve a higher degree of self-sufficiency in agriculture. Organic farming also contributes to several environmental objectives, including B iological diversity. Organically, there is added value in production, which in turn creates added value on the market. We in the Green Party are happy to have, together with the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Liberals, a January agreement, where we have put together a small peasant package. It's not really that small, it's big. I fully agree with Kristina Yngwe that agriculture is an important sector for all of us politicians. This really is something that is a strong commitment to us. The budget for the period also includes an additional SEK 300 million for a competitive food sector. I would particularly like to thank everyone around the country who is working on regional food strategies. Without your work around the country, with the different conditions for food production, we would not be able to cope with all the challenges we face. Climate negotiations are currently in full swing in Madrid. The issue of food and climate must not go unnoticed in this debate. Today, a number of experts in the Gothenburg Post: Our elected representatives must realise that we are at a historic crossroads, where strong efforts to stop wasting our food will play an important role. The transition to a more resource-efficient food chain requires decisions. I am pleased to say that in the proposed budget there is now room to expand the work on food waste. The necessary decisions will be taken in this House after this debate. The work on food waste needs to be developed, and I would like to see a broader debate with even more concrete proposals. In order for the work on food waste to have a greater impact, a broader political approach and clearer political governance are needed. There is also a need for a broader approach to the issue of food waste. In order to prevent food waste, major changes need to be made in both the food chain and the waste industry. If global food waste had been a nation, it would have been the world's third largest emitter of greenhouse gases after China and the United States. Estimates show that global food waste could feed 3 billion people. According to the Swedish Food Administration, one third of the food produced globally never ends up in anyone's stomach. In order for us to reach the Swedish environmental and climate targets and climate targets in the Paris Agreement, we need to reduce emissions from the food sector. Reducing food waste should be the most priority measure. There are many reasons for this waste, including the relatively low cost of food and the interest of food operators in selling more. One reason why food is so cheap is that the effects on the environment, health and society are not included in the price. Many consumers are fooled, one might say, to shop a little too much food, not least at this time of Christmas– so much that a lot needs to be thrown away. It's a big pack, extra prices and come-and-buy. Low prices lead to overconsumption. There is too little discussion about how agriculture, the food industry and the grocery trade can reduce unnecessary production and sales. A study on bread waste shows that too large a range of products affects the amount of waste and that the bread producers' and traders' own withdrawal systems make it impossible to reduce waste. It continues, and waste is increasing; it is built into the concept. The basis for the problems is also in overproduction, which drives overconsumption. It is completely unreasonable to continue to develop an agricultural system that leads to food waste and, at the same time, to ill-health among the population and serious environmental and climate impacts. The basic thing for the future should be that what is produced should also be consumed. This is the very basis of housekeeping. In the case of meat products, the anatomical responsibility should be reviewed. In order to reduce the climate impact of each kilogram produced, it is important that larger parts of the animal benefit, such as lard, intestinal food, wool and skin. In Björklinge north of Uppsala there is a farmer with natural grazing animals, who for a short time also sells bags made from the skins of his conservation shoes. The leather is tanned in Uppland. Local production is becoming increasingly important. If the Agenda 2030 sustainability target of reducing food waste by 50% by 2030 is not taken into account for vegetable and animal crops separately, there is a clear risk that the target will be met mostly with the help of vegetable crops. Animal products generally cause a higher negative environmental impact. That is why we need to focus extra on animal food waste in order to have a greater impact on the objective of keeping food systems within planetary limits. Madam President, I would like Sweden has a food strategy that is decided in broad agreement. The ambition is to increase Swedish production, strengthen the Swedish farming community, get more young people to choose professions in agriculture or horticulture and get a stronger Swedish food processing. In the green transition there are many of the jobs of the future related to food, energy, nature and resource management. The Green Party wants sustainable agriculture, a high level of self-sufficiency and an increased demand for Swedish-produced and, above all, organic food. We want more local food processing and better contacts between consumers and producers. We need a climate approach that permeates the whole of the new agricultural policy. We want to ensure that soil fertility is increased and thus more carbon in agricultural land. A green rural policy can stimulate both small and large companies to use methods that strengthen biodiversity and ecosystem services. Many more food businesses will be needed such as mills, bakeries, dairies, ysteries, slaughterhouses, charcuteries, distilleries, breweries, fish smokers, cereal sorting plants and so on. Those parties that want to focus food production on only large-scale and conventionally will be disappointed in the future by an over-spiritual dinner table. Madam President, I would like I have chosen to prioritise agriculture and food in the debate here today. I would also like to highlight in particular a very urgent budgetary effort. This concerns the investment in veterinary field operations, which increase by SEK 55 million during the period. Animal welfare, healthy animals and low antibiotic use characterize most of Swedish agriculture. We have built it up thanks to strong veterinary competence and great commitment to society, agriculture and the non-profit sector. It is competence that we must safeguard and develop for the future. I support the proposal in the report.
i-cb800e623166233e-811	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Maria Gardfjell for her speech. It was interesting in many ways. I strongly agree with the idea of working against food waste. I think it's one of the biggest concerns we'll have in the future. It is really remarkable that we have not been able to deal with it better for such a long time. I guess you haven't realized it's a big problem. I am happy to go to the government to try to find solutions to move forward with regard to food waste. Another point is that the Green Party in particular often highlights organic farming. I was a little surprised when I heard it said in the speech that biodiversity is so much greater on organic farms. In fact, not very long ago I read a survey that had been measured in the field layers. Many times there was even greater biodiversity in conventional crops where border zones were cultivated. So it would be fun to hear the reasoning and thoughts about it. As regards the development of rural areas, which was very much mentioned, I sometimes think of farm sales. A couple of investigations have concluded that farm sales should not be a problem. Now that we have the government representative here, I wonder when we'll get to farm sales. It will be a very important part of Swedish living countryside. It is about farm sales of, for example, wine and beer, which is also food.
i-cb800e623166233e-815	Madam President, I would like I apologise for passing the time of my speech. John Widegren is asking a number of interesting questions. As far as food waste is concerned, it is not that we have done nothing. In recent years, three authorities have worked hard to develop an action plan to reduce food waste. However, further efforts are needed in the future to ensure that this work is fully effective. That is what the state budget creates room for. Food waste is an issue that is included in the food strategy and which is a high priority in that work. More action, more ideas and a clearer priority are now needed. It is an area where all consumers, but also all producers, can play an active part in reducing climate emissions. As far as organic farming and biodiversity are concerned, according to research, it is absolutely better for biodiversity in organic farming in the fields used. However, I agree that in the case of conventional agriculture, which uses a lot of chemical pesticides, there is also a regulatory framework for border zones against watercourses, for example. Of course, the conditions for biodiversity are also good and better in those border zones that are not usually used. Thus, border zones are really needed in conventional agriculture for biodiversity. As far as farm sales are concerned, I would like to be the representative of the government. Now I'm just a representative of the Green Party here in Parliament.
i-cb800e623166233e-820	Madam President, I would like I thought the Green Party was part of the government. I'll come back to this uncultivated field edge thing. This is something that we have used in the last rural programming period. They have had the opportunity to have edge zones and so with various seeds and other things that benefit the polliners very much. Then you could have the polliners there. Organic farming, like conventional farming, works hard to reduce weed pressure. So there is not much other flowering vegetation in the fields, whether organic or conventional. I would also like to say that I do not believe that any party here in Parliament would advocate only large conventional crops, as indicated in the speech. I think we are all in favour of the diversity that exists in Swedish agriculture. What we are all in favour of is Swedish production. I hope, Madam President, that the Green Party will continue to talk about both conventional and organic farming – Swedish food.
i-cb800e623166233e-824	Madam President, I would like I certainly do. As far as border zones are concerned, the efforts now being made in the state budget on pollination are important because all farmers, both conventional and ecological, will be involved in making a positive contribution there. There is nothing to say that organic farmers would not want to contribute to pollination. They are very active in that work. With regard to small-scale investments, both small-scale food processing and small-scale food production, I very much hope that we will have strong support throughout the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture for the new CAP period and that we will not be affected by the same situation as we are now. This has meant, for example, that small-scale farmers have not been able to receive drought support. Those under ten livestock units did not receive any subsidies. That's sad.
i-cb800e623166233e-827	Madam President, I would like It is a good thing to listen to all the parties tonight. The common thread of all the speeches has in principle been the food strategy. It is important that we talk about it. Food strategy is an incredibly important approach in Swedish politics. Nevertheless, I would like to commend the government for the fact that the former Minister for Rural Development pushed it through so that it was created. There were many of us who worked on it, and that was very positive. But those are the objectives we agree on. Then the government has the chance to influence exactly how it wants to reach them. With regard to the objectives, it is interesting that the food strategy makes it clear that profitability will increase. That was also raised by the honourable Member in his speech. Self-sufficiency in food is also to be increased. Competitiveness will be strengthened and the regulatory burden reduced. My question is whether the honourable Member thinks that after two and a half years there has been a difference between the farm level of Swedish farmers.
i-cb800e623166233e-831	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Magnus Oscarsson for the question. The food strategy is very important for the whole development ahead. The Green Party was one of the parties that really pushed for a Swedish food strategy. The Green Party has been working on this issue for almost ten years, in our various pre-election programmes and so on. It is important to bear in mind that the food strategy is a broad agreement. So it is not everything in the food strategy that I think is by far the best and most important. This is always the case when you make broad agreements. There are things you like better and things you like a little less. With regard to the objectives of the food strategy, I fully agree that it is very important to create good profitability for Sweden's farmers but also for the food industry and development. We must also ensure a higher level of self-sufficiency in Sweden. It is not only about increasing the profitability of agriculture but also about Sweden's vulnerability and the possibility of a strong climate change change. After these few years, I have not yet seen any reports where such evaluations have been carried out that show results broken down at farm level. However, it is important that we follow the work ahead and ensure that we also introduce the regional food strategy. With it, I think you can have a greater connection directly with individual farmers.
i-cb800e623166233e-836	Madam President, I would like When you talk to farmers at farm level, they say that they do not notice this. They say that we in Parliament talk a lot, and they wonder what happens at farm level. As I said, we now see, for example, that five dairy farmers end every week. They say profitability is too bad. After all, our level of self-sufficiency has not increased in two and a half years, but rather declined. We can point to point after point. As far as the burden of regulation is concerned, the farmers do not say: Surely we now feel that the government is really doing something. Instead, it becomes heavier day by day. How does the honourable Member think they can see a difference in the future?
i-cb800e623166233e-840	Madam President, I would like Magnus Oscarsson knows that we in the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture's evaluation team have taken a very important initiative. It is about looking at the vulnerability and self-sufficiency of Swedish agriculture. This evaluation will be unique in its kind. No one has done this work before in the broad way that we now intend to do. We will look in particular at the Finnish example that Magnus Oscarsson highlighted in his speech earlier. Finland, within the framework of the EU system, has had a clear focus on the development of Finnish agriculture. I really think we have a lot to learn from Finland. I find it sad that farming has to go down. A lot of people are getting older. I look forward to better conditions for generational change.
i-cb800e623166233e-843	Frau President! We have now heard the draft budgets of the various parties in the area of Areella industries. The fact that opinions differ certainly does not surprise anyone, but there is actually a section in the annex to the report on which all parties agree. This is what I intend to say a few words about. This concerns the follow-up of the Government's 2018 performance report. It is a follow-up that both the government form and the Budget Act require all committees in the Riksdag to do. The idea is that the committees will in this way receive answers to questions about the results were those that the government had said and about the laws that we make have had the intended effect. In the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture there is a special working group, comprising all parties, which has this as a special task. Over the years, many good tools have been developed with officials in the committee and in dialogue with the Government Office to monitor developments in the committee's area of responsibility. What does it look like? As chairman of the group, I will tell you about some small observations that we have made. As last year, we have looked at a competitive and sustainable food chain in particular this year. Some trends that may be interesting for others to know are that the number of food businesses is growing slightly, while the number of farms has unfortunately decreased by 13% between 2007 and 2016. Furthermore, the Swedish market share of what we eat is very good when it comes to milk, cereals and eggs, while we end up at 54% for beef and 73% for pork. The lowest number is the number for apples. Only 21% of the apples we eat are Swedish. The results report shows that the drought in 2018 is estimated to have resulted in an income loss of SEK 6.2 billion for the farmers concerned. It also says that the processing of fish from inland waters is progressing positively, although we know that the situation is different for other fishermen. In addition, the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences is increasingly receiving external research funding, and the number of articles published has increased. These areas are related to ecology and environmental science. As you can hear, the performance area spans many important issues. Within several of these, both indicators and long time series are reported, making it much easier to analyse and see links between goals, efforts and results. In dialogue with the Government Office, the group is now trying to get indicators in the areas where it is lacking. Unfortunately, however, it sometimes happens that the Government Office removes indicators that we thought were interesting to follow without telling us why. We do not really like this. This year this included indicators measuring the development of organic production and consumption. These were all of a sudden gone. It is just as bad in the area of regulatory simplification. This has been completely removed, despite the fact that the government at the same time writes that simplification of rules and regulations both nationally and within the EU are important measures for the further development and competitiveness of agriculture. We are now going to try to get this back at the same time as we are calling for a more holistic approach. Sometimes it is the case that taking action in one place can have opposite effects on another. We want to see more impact assessments and other effects. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to extend warm thanks to all the members of the evaluation team and to the officials who have assisted us so well. Let us hope for continued good cooperation! As mentioned earlier, we have even more exciting projects to come. We'll have to get back to that.
i-cb800e623166233e-854	Madam President, I would like We Swedish democrats propose in our budget that Category 23 Areella industries, rural areas and food for 2020 should receive an appropriation of SEK 900 million more than the Government's proposal. Staffan Eklöf has described what the differences are, and I will focus here only on a few points relating to forestry. Sweden's forestry is fantastic. For more than a hundred years it has been one of our most important export industries. Yet we still have a lot of nature and many species. In addition, we have a nutrition that keeps our agriculture going, as it is one bone on which our farmers stand. Forestry is very important for a lot of farmers. In addition, forestry is one of the major possible solutions to the transition to a more carbon neutral society. It's a bioeconomy opportunity. We can make more and more material based on wood. For 2019, we proposed reductions in funds to the Swedish Forest Agency and to the grant line Operations for forestry. We felt that too much resources went to stop forest owners' planned fellings in their own forests. This was done mainly through the registration of key biotopes but also through the support of the Species Protection Regulation. We thought that the Swedish Forest Board's efforts to provide support and advice to the farmers in their use were too small. At the time, we considered and still believe that the system of key biotopes needs half a content. There has been far too much criticism of this system, which means that landowners cannot assess in advance whether or not an area should be designated as a key biotope, since the assessment differs both between individual officials and between different parts of Sweden. Landowners are not invited for discussion before decisions are taken. They find it difficult to appeal. It is difficult to de-register a key biotope, although it turns out that it has been wrongly registered. It is also difficult to adjust the limits. The possibility of obtaining income from the forest disappears, but no compensation is paid. We would like to emphasise that forest companies and forest certification systems are involved in the emergence of these problems. It is the state, too, and that is why we must act. I would like to remind you that, during the debate in this House in spring 2019, almost all parties raised the fact that the key biotopes have created major problems and that the system needs to be reviewed. For 2020, the Government will raise the funding to the Swedish Forest Board slightly to 488 million, but it will reduce the funding for forestry efforts to 252 million. It's almost a half against last year. We choose to follow the government regarding the grant to the Swedish Forest Agency, where we do not propose anything other than the government. On the other hand, we slightly increase the funding for forestry operations by SEK 65 million to SEK 317 million. That we do this is because some important changes have taken place that we hope will lead to a strengthening of the Swedish Forest Board's positive importance for Swedish forest owners. Firstly, following complaints from many different parties, the government has set up a ownership inquiry to be completed in summer 2020. Secondly, the Swedish Forest Board has proposed that the inventory of key biotopes should not be carried out after the logging notification has been received. This is what is perceived as the most difficult thing for a landowner. A revenue has been planned, but it disappears. A consultation round on this has just been concluded, and we hope that this is the beginning of the creation of a renewed system. Thirdly, announcements have been made by the Riksdag that the Species Protection Regulation will be reviewed and that Sweden will work towards a change to the EU's Species and Habitats Directive. At the time, Minister of State Karolina Skog also promised in 2018 to set up an investigation into this, and we are waiting for it. Madam President, I would like The role of the Forest Board has historically been to promote active forestry. We want this work to be strengthened. We therefore add 65 fresh million SEK to forestry efforts. Let me give you some examples of things that the money can be used for. It can be faster handling and felling of spruce bark-drilling trees or trees that are at risk of being attacked in all of Sweden's forests. There may be more forest days and more information material about the importance of forestry – to the public but also concretely to forest owners. Then it can also be about issues such as clearing forests, action to avoid and manage forest fires and other activities that make our forestry better. Finally, there is a need for more advice and consultation with landowners on growth and value-added measures in forestry, as well as nature conservation measures. In particular, in our budget, we mention the need for more measures in brows, in transition zones between agriculture and forestry and in noble leaf forests. We want to reproduce more of its previous role as support for forestry and forestry. Sweden will need increased growth in the forest, and the Swedish Forest Agency has an important role together with forest owners to create more growth. As I said, forest owners are often farmers. In many cases, profitable forestry accounts for a very large proportion of their income. If we want a viable agriculture, we must also have a functioning forestry sector. Rural areas are developing in many parts of Sweden in a negative direction. In order for us to counteract and preferably reverse this trend, it is important that the authorities are not only braking or controlling but also have a supportive function. It is important for our rural areas, and I hope that we will be able to achieve this together. To the President and the committee: thank you for the work on agricultural activities this year.
i-cb800e623166233e-869	Madam President, I would like When we stood here a year ago, we stood in the middle of the longest process of government formation this country has ever experienced. In the middle of the ongoing process, M, KD and SD took the opportunity to vote off the transitional budget and to vote for a – to be kind – budget sketch that had consequences. More or less the country has been affected during the year by this rapidly implemented budget. Not least, our authorities have had to deal with these unclear reductions of millions. They mainly affected area 20, but the budget affected us all. Not least, it affected the processes of forest owners who were about to receive compensation for their forests because the land was deemed to contain large natural values. Those processes were paused. In Category 23, green jobs in the forest were abolished. Up to 2 000 new arrivals who could get their livelihood from the forest by working with forest management lost their job, or it never came about. This is an asset that we have in our country. In Västerbotten, we have over 8,000 people of working age enrolled in the Employment Service. Almost half of them are of non-European origin. They could be useful in this country if they came out to work. Many of them do not know that the forest could mean a job and a livelihood. This is something we need to get better at. Now we have a new situation and a new government base with four responsible parties that through a new collaboration can deliver their own election promises and move the country forward. We Social Democrats want to build a stronger society and a safer Sweden. We want to invest in welfare and security. We need a society that stays together and works, no matter where you are. Whether you are in Pajala, Stockholm, Ystad or Norsjö, society should work and be there. This is particularly important in the green industries. We are now debating MJU2 on the economics. Hanna Westerén from the Social Democrats has highlighted many important issues. I will focus mainly on forests and talk a little about food and hunting. I will also talk about insects and other vermin. Now we stand here with Mr S. in government and present that we can now build on the food strategy and increase the level of self-sufficiency. We are talking about how we can get more food on the tables and how we can increase food exports. Madam President, I would like I was with the Rural Minister at Norrmejerier in Umeå and witnessed a joint launch of a new product. Now Magnus Oscarsson from the Christian Democrats will listen. There are great opportunities for the disposal of northern milk to produce grill cheese – a Swedish halloumi. Maybe it could be called Hallume? But this is a collaboration between Norrmejerier and Ica, and it will be Ica's customers who, through a vote, will be allowed to name the new product. What is very good about this product is that you can increase the demand for milk and produce the product even when there is less outlets for other dairy products. This is an important part of the food strategy: to develop new products that our consumers are asking for. We do not want antibiotics produced in our business. Here Ica and Norrmejerier have gone ahead, and I think there are conditions for more actors to do so. Just as has been highlighted here, we strengthen the food strategy within the framework of a farmer's package by investing an additional SEK 191 million in 2020 and an additional SEK 72 million in 2021 and 2022. These are very important efforts. Madam President, I would like We have all been able to feel great frustration about the complications and the dark comedy that Brexit has developed into. Today they have new elections in the UK. We do not know for sure where it is going, but we can all feel that it is time for Britain to make up its mind. This affects all of us. It affects the EU budget, the new CAP and fisheries. We see the drought and new types of challenges that irrevocably affect agriculture, and we need to shape agricultural policy accordingly. We have been draining agriculture for a long time, but now, together with the agricultural sector, we need to ensure that the policy is designed to ensure that it becomes the lubricant that agriculture so badly needs. We want CAP to be as fair as possible and with as little bureaucracy as possible. We would like CAP to provide opportunities to reward our good animal welfare and low antibiotic use and that it is done either in CAP or that we have the opportunity to support this via national measures outside. Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight paragraph 27 of the January Agreement. With regard to this point about the state being a good example in forestry, we Social Democrats believe that it should also include social factors. It is totally unacceptable that the National Property Board or the Swedish Defence Service should procure forest services far below the level of the collective agreement. That is something that we will push hard in the forthcoming negotiations. Otherwise, we have set up a property rights investigation and are about to set up an investigation into the species protection regulation, which will be important parts of the January agreement. Madam President, I would like Biodiversity can also become harmful. The Swedish Forest Agency has presented a contested report that reports that moose and other deer eat forest for SEK 7 – 8 billion each year. The damage is undoubtedly a serious threat to the transformation that Sweden needs to make into a fossil-free and climate-friendly society. According to Skogsstyrelsen's report, all plants must grow up completely undisturbed. But that's not how it works in practice. Mooses will eat up some of the forest, and pests will also feast on the forest. The moose is also plagued by climate change. The elk population has declined sharply in recent decades, especially in the southern and western parts of the country. The hunters have a clear goal through collaboration in the moose management groups. And the interaction between forestry and hunters makes it possible to get things right. It also requires us forest owners to plant more pine trees where possible, among other things to ensure the supply of feed that is absolutely necessary. But it also means that we should plant the right tree species on the right land. Just as Kristina Yngwe so well highlighted, another pest is spruce bark. The Government will contribute SEK 30 million in 2020, 2021 and 2022 to support efforts to deal with the major damage and combat the attacks from the spruce bark drill. We must also ensure that our forests become more resilient to climate change. Monocultures of spruce will never make it. We see that we need more variations in the forest. This is also economically justified. We see that, among others, Södra Skogsägagar now imports large quantities of birch from the Baltics because there is a demand for birch. In fact, there are good economic opportunities to mix their forest with more tree species, which would reduce the possibility of attack from other spruce bark drills. We also have wild boars that can be absolutely amazing to hunt. But quickly they become a plague. The government has made it possible for game cameras and light reinforcements and is now preparing the issue of a small-scale sale of wild boar meat that is in demand. There is scope for both small-scale sales and sales via game handling facilities. With the resource that we have in the form of wild boars, it is absolutely absurd that we should import up to 80% of what is served from Germany and Poland. I will also say something about the veterinary activities that are so important. Maria Gardfjell pointed out that 55 new million are being invested in this. It's really important. Together with Jennie Nilsson, I made a visit to the veterinary station in Vännäs. We have a variety of animal diseases for which we need to be prepared, not least African swine fever, CWD, avian influenza and so on. It is important that veterinary activities are present throughout the country. But we also see a need for a fairer relationship between private and state activities. When private actors take over in an area, it must also include on-call on evenings, nights and weekends. Otherwise, this activity becomes completely unreasonable to stick together. Madam President, I would like I've exceeded my speaking time and I think I'll get a reprimand for it. Nina Lundström has highlighted the needs of the Sami peoples. The Sami peoples have lived in harmony with nature for millennia. We need to take advantage of this knowledge, not least when it comes to forest management where we have major grazing damage. We have major attacks from predators on the reindeer industry. More efforts need to be made. We can see that the damage picture does not follow clean-up plans or tolerance-level work, and we need to do more. There is also reason to do research, including on the impact of the eagle in particular in the calving country. There is well documented evidence that eagle attacks reindeer calves. However, since it is not documented in the research, there is no compensation for it. We must ensure that this is possible. Madam President, I would like The real industries are the basis for the whole country to live. Not least, in the event of a crisis or conflict, we must also be able to live in the cities. It is said that during world wars, Winston Churchill raised the appropriation to culture considerably. On the question of why the money did not go to the defence instead, he replied: without culture we have nothing to defend. To refer to Winston Churchill, I can see the motive for us to defend the country with arms in hand. But we need to make sure that we have something to eat in the meantime.
i-cb800e623166233e-898	I would like to point out that your group leaders have agreed on a speaking time of a maximum of eight minutes because it is free to reply. We must consider this when we look at this next time. I therefore ask you not to exceed the maximum speaking time.
i-cb800e623166233e-899	Madam President, I would like I thank the honourable Member for an interesting speech. It reminded us of what was said earlier by the Social Democrats, that is, that they are talking about everything widely and that everything is going to be great. In fact, it is getting rather tiring to hear expressions such as napkin budget, napkin sketches and other things. The same goes for forest owners who lost a lot of money. In fact, there was money for the already started dossiers when the budget was presented. But this was last year's budget. I'm more worried about what's happening now. The speech highlighted the 2 000 green jobs, I think, as well. I'm much more worried about what's happening right now. Sweden is not doing well. We have very poor growth, and we have a crown that is extremely low-valued. This means that the talented professional companies who usually come here and take care of Swedish forests do not want to come here anymore because they lose money coming here because the Swedish krona is so little valued. It's more troubling. We have to kick off Sweden again and get the engine running. Madam President, I would like In fact, the Member's party has been in charge of this country for five years, and it is actually going worse and worse. As regards what Brexit and the new CAP should lead to, we have said from this Parliament that we want to reduce the EU's agricultural budget. We do not know whether or not it will be so. But there is an even greater responsibility on the government to actually deliver national measures that maintain Swedish profitability in the green industries. I would therefore like to hear what national measures the government is prepared to take if the EU's agricultural budget is reduced.
i-XEzdYQwnrBds8AGrncHLsv	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the questions, John Widegren! We share that concern – as I said in my speech, the British do need to make up their minds. First of all, we need to find out what the EU budget will mean. Will the British still be here? What trade agreements do they want, and how much should they pay? Then we will agree on what the CAP should actually contain. We on the part of the Social Democrats will accept our responsibility, and we are happy to do so with our cooperation parties. We have announced that we can very well invest in Peasant Package 1 and that it may well become Peasant Packages 2 and 3 as well – but that we must first know what the CAP contains. What's in it, and what's outside? Because I have great difficulty in seeing that we should bet as the Moderates do. They squeeze with raised food VAT, which makes no sense. It is not some we see coming with the new intergovernmental cooperation. The Moderates are investing their habit very strongly in tax cuts; they are new job tax deductions of 15 billion. We are criticised for various aspects of our priorities, but we can see that the Moderates' priorities are in a strictly conservative path – no innovation there! In addition, both social security and unemployment insurance are being reduced, in the traditional conservative sense. So we need to know what the British are deciding, and we need the CAP in place. Then we will deliver based on what the CAP enables regarding what should be in and what should be outside.
i-cb800e623166233e-908	Madam President, I would like The food mom was lifted again, and I'm sticking to what I said before. In fact, we are reducing taxes on wages and pensions by 30 billion, while food VAT is increased by 10 billion. So there is a good gap to play there. In fact, I did not think I had an answer to what action the government is prepared to take. For this is crawling quickly now, and we are approaching. I understand that, like you, we do not know what the CAP contains, but we must be prepared to take national measures to strengthen Swedish agriculture and strengthen the production we have in Sweden. Environmentally and climately, it is the best production in Europe as a whole, and we should instead increase exports. I would therefore like to ask an additional question: how are we going to increase exports of Swedish food?
i-cb800e623166233e-910	Madam President, I would like Maybe we can export Hallume and more. We have many good products. Nor do I understand why we should import wild boar when we should actually be able to export wild boar meat. There is much we can do if we are prepared to look at it. What we need to finish is the CAP. We have a transition period that is announced to initially one year, and the risk is that it will be longer. What we want to ensure is that we do not get a complicated CAP that requires great administration and very much control functions. We need to streamline the CAP so that we know what is inside and who should have the support they are entitled to. What is outside, together with our cooperation parties, we shall ensure that we support in the best way.
i-cb800e623166233e-912	Madam President, I would like The report states that the objective of carrying out the same number of normal controls as notification checks on animal welfare was not met in 2018. We also know that controls are being reduced for the second year in a row. This is, of course, not at all satisfactory, as it is impossible to know whether the animal welfare law is being complied with if it is not controlled. We need to give county animal welfare units a sporting opportunity to do the job we expect of them. As the spokesperson of the Green Party on animal welfare, I follow how we address the issue of animal welfare and respect for animals with great interest. It is part of the report on the positive work being done today to improve animal welfare. At the same time, I read that the long arm of the law does not condemn those who have clearly violated the Animal Welfare Act through a handling that has led to many broken wings of chickens and that several chickens have been scalded alive. The Court uses arguments such as the fact that this type of handling is accepted by the authorities. What is accepted, I think – to handle chickens as non-knowing groups or to scald them alive? And which authorities accept this kind of violation? We in Sweden have for a long time been proud to say that we are best at animal welfare, but we now see ourselves surrounded by several other countries when it comes to fur farming. Austria and the United Kingdom have already banned fur farming, and Norway, Ireland and Bulgaria are now preparing laws that phase out the holding of predators in small cages where they never have the opportunity to do what they have inherited, great need to do – including running, hunting and swimming. It is not compatible with good animal welfare and cannot be, says one safe in these countries, and much research shows just that. In Sweden, however, we say that we are not quite sure yet and that the Swedish Board of Agriculture wants us to do a little more research on this. But many researchers in the field disagree. With the animal welfare law we have now, where it is clear that we should promote animal welfare and that animals should be able to carry out behaviours for which they are strongly motivated, we should also be able to phase out fur breeding. Madam President, I would like There are still almost 1 million chickens in Sweden living in cages and throughout their life there is no room for movement larger than an A4 paper. Can a chicken experience joy and well - being on the small surface? If consumers are to be required to be fully responsible for animal welfare by choosing, for example, what kind of eggs they buy, much more account is required of how the animals are and where the eggs come from – even in restaurants, in ready-made dishes and so on. We have an animal welfare law to follow, and we have it so that animals will not be punished even if the consumer does not always make active choices for animals to be well off. We also see pictures of pigs living their short lives in an extremely poor environment. We see sows that are fixed and can't move or be mother to their little ones but act only milkable. Do these pigs have an opportunity to satisfy their basic needs? Is this the Animal Welfare Act? I hope and believe that the new Animal Welfare Act points out another, more humane direction. It aims to ensure good animal welfare and promote good animal welfare and respect for animals. The animals now have their own value in legal texts and are recognized as sentient beings. The previous focus of the Swedish Animal Welfare Act has been negative welfare, which means that animals should not in any case be subjected to unnecessary suffering. Today we express a positive welfare, that is, that animals should have the opportunity to experience joy and well-being in their lives. The new law must therefore lead to changes in animal husbandry, and to know that the intention of the legislative text becomes a reality, we need to ensure that county boards around the country are given the opportunity to do their job – to carry out checks so that we know how the animal welfare law is being complied with.
i-cb800e623166233e-919	Madam President, I would like I am the last speaker in this debate session and therefore could not take a line despite the fact that many things I felt obliged to react to were said. I am therefore going to use some of the time in my speech for that. There has been a lot of talk about forests, which is a favorite subject for me. There has been talk of the key biotopes in a way that makes it sound like it is a political decision, but what is a political decision is that we simply choose to put our heads in the sand and pretend that the areas with high natural values do not exist, so that we do not really get to grips with the problem. We know that the forests are still there and that the legislation is still there, but we choose not to see the basis. That is the political decision. We have also heard a lot about the forest being enough for everything. So we continue in the same style as before, i.e. that we should make more of everything out of the forest. We have also talked about the profitability of the forest and that it is the engine of the economy. What is interesting here is a report from the LRF that shows that the profitability of the forest has decreased over the past five years. Then I am talking about the individual, that is, the forester. If you talk about industry, as most people in this House do, it has gone very well. However, it is not this perspective that I choose to prioritise in my policy. Over the last 60 years, the compensation for timber has been halved for the individual. Since 1980, annual working hours have fallen from 30 000 hours to 15 000. According to Statistics Sweden's statistics, the number of employed persons is estimated to decrease by more than 20 000 by 2035. This is a little bit about the profitability of forestry. As I said, it is very good if you are a large company that takes up large areas, but if you are an individual owner and try to get profitability, it may not be the woodworks that is the way forward. We have also talked about the bad bark well, and we are now going to take political action to combat it. As a biologist, I see that this is a bark drill that always makes itself known when the trees are dying. So it is not a species that comes and knocks out functioning forests, but this happens when the forests are already under stress and are dying from the past. The reason we have these natural disasters is because we have monocultures. The trees and the forests are not resilient when we have the same age, the same tree species and the same everything. When there is a change that has a negative impact, the whole forest can be knocked out. This is nothing new; there is plenty of research on it. We have the rem m eniella fungus, which has affected 500 000 hectares. It is a fungus that has hit these forests. We have Gudrun, which led to a cost of SEK 15 billion because the forest blew down. The monocultures we had were particularly hard hit. The root rot led to a cost of SEK 1 billion. We have also seen forest fires, and now we have the bark well. Madam President, I would like If we really want to do something about this, we need to switch forestry from one where we have widespread monocultures to one where we have a varied and resilient system with different species of trees of different ages. That is the real political direction we need to pursue if we really want to do something about it. The other is just relief of symptoms. There has also been a great deal of talk in this House about growth in different ways. I just want to touch on this area quickly. Growth is therefore more for each unit of time. There is no research at all that says that we can constantly produce more while reducing resource consumption – if you think about it a little, it says itself. However, there is relative growth. This means that we are becoming more efficient in our use of resources. But we continue to produce and thereby release and have an increasing footprint. The absolute growth, Madam President, is when absolute material consumption and resource consumption are actually decreasing. My colleagues in this House: there is no empirical evidence that it even exists! It's inside our heads. It is a dream, but we continue to pretend that it exists and can be realized. Now, Madam President, I shall return to what I was actually going to talk about: our great predators. Large predators around the world are decreasing in number, and they are living on increasingly smaller surfaces. At the same time, we know that predators are top computers and very important to our ecosystems. Predators' populations are decreasing, thus also reducing their ability to fulfil their ecological role. We humans cannot replace the predators with our hunting, for we cannot pursue a selective hunt. We can't replace evolution. In Sweden there are four different large predators. Wolf is one of them. The wolf is classified as vulnerable in Sweden according to the Swedish Red List. It is part of the Habitats Directive and the Berne Convention and is also listed in CITES. Madam President, I would like At the same time, we know that the wolf, as a top computer, sometimes takes tambo as sheep. The wolf killed 326 sheep in 2015. This represents 0.05% of the total number of sheep, including lambs. On average, four sheep were killed in each individual wolf attack. Many of Sweden's sheep owners have relatively few animals, and this can have severe consequences. These are the facts, and as politicians, it is our job to act on them. We should remember that we have signed conventions for biodiversity, and therefore we must be responsible for all species within Sweden's borders. So shooting an endangered animal is not a solution. I believe that the solution lies in the prevention of conflicts, and according to the Viltskadecenter, predator-repellent fences are by far the best method of doing this. Madam President, I would like Today, only one in five sheep pastures has fences that protect against predator attacks. This is too little, and in order to reduce the total number of attacks in the country it must increase. It is also important to remember that it is Sweden as a nation – and not just the individual user – who is responsible for biodiversity. Therefore, society must be able to provide preventive support and financial compensation for those who still face attacks. The Swedish Board of Agriculture and the County Administrative Board provide grants for the purchase of materials for fences and sometimes also for a certain part of the labour cost. There is also an association – the Swedish Rovjursföreningen – that can provide practical assistance. Madam President, I would like Yet, sheep owners who want this financial help may not be able to get it. That is totally unacceptable, and that is what we need to focus on. In order for the wolf's existence not to be seen as an economic threat to the individual, the state must ensure prevention and increase funding for fences. To conclude, Madam President, I would like to say something about all of us in this House. We are one species among many others. We are part of the ecosystem, and we must stop seeing ourselves as having the role of dominating the others. It is indeed high time we showed respect for our fellow species and found solutions for how we can coexist in the future.
i-cb800e623166233e-949	Madam President, I would like There is a need for a policy that can take advantage of Sweden's development power and growth potential and that can take advantage of employment opportunities throughout the country. The Moderates have the same funding as the government in the area of regional growth, which we are now debating, that is to say 3 672 525 000 SEK or if you want 3.7 billion. However, the content differs between the government's and our policies in the budget on a number of points. Regional policy also links in with other policy areas that aim to create regional growth, jobs and prosperity. It is not just about the whole of Sweden living, but it should be possible to live in different places across the country. This summer I visited Kitkiöjärvi, which is about 70 km north of Pajala. That's where I went to visit the local country store. It is a central place for the population living around. Connectivity problems are a recurring concern. The fuel pump loses contact from time to time, and then you can't refuel. The same applies to connection to a bank and to paying bills. Vattenfall, who is in this case those responsible in the area, came a long way to the site, where they themselves got to know what it's like not to have online contact when they were supposed to keep their information. If we are serious about the whole country living, it must also work. It will work very well on the Finnish side, so there are lessons to be learned or the government can consider whether an agreement can be signed with Finland. On another occasion I visited Storuman, Vilhelmina and Saxnäs. The shop in Saxnäs has several parts in its operations. There you sell fishing licenses, hand out packages and system company products and act as a grocery store and more. Fishing license sales had also become the county administrative board's extended arm, involuntary. When the fishing tourists do not find or get information or come into contact with the County Administrative Board, the assignment falls into the lap of the local country store, and there the tourists are in line for information. Tourism is an on-site revenue, but it is unreasonable for those who have operations to solve the task of the county administrative board without a contract. Like the government, the Moderates have chosen to increase operating aid to small shops and rural traders in vulnerable and vulnerable sparsely populated areas by SEK 70 million. We stress the importance of the continued efforts being carefully followed up and evaluated by the responsible authority. The Moderates also want to make it easier for country merchants to become representatives of state-owned companies. Furthermore, we want it to be a good business environment in general and a very good environment for small and new entrepreneurs in particular. Entrepreneurship and everyday life in rural areas need to be made easier, not more complicated. We want to see an investigation with a special regulatory simplification mission. Once and for all, knots need to be dissolved around simplification and effective measures to achieve a common positive result, not least in terms of information, controls and more. We also want changes in the approach to taxes and other instruments that are always opposed to how they affect the conditions for households and companies in different parts of the country. The commuter single assistant nurse or single parent who lives outside the big city of Dalarna, Värmland or elsewhere, and who is completely dependent on his car to cope with both work and everyday life, should not be forced to leave his home just because urban politicians are obsessed with raising the tax on petrol. Companies should not, as in Skåne, be forced to drive production on the weekend because the electricity capacity is not enough for all machines at the same time. If the stoppers go and production stops, it becomes costly, and at the other end there is a customer who expects delivery that does not. It's bad for Swedish business. Electricity use is increasing and Sweden must keep up, both in increased use and in capacity, and not least in southern Sweden. A cold winter day when our neighbours also have cold and still winds it blows, which is a risk factor that must be eliminated. This affects the willingness to set up and develop businesses and its turn jobs locally and regionally. The fact that companies have access to labour, that pupils manage their schooling, that people get to work, that the justice system works well and that people feel safe is a fundamental factor at local and regional level. Infrastructure must be in place for both work commuting and transport across the country in order for companies to produce and reach out with their goods locally, regionally, nationally and internationally. In order for people to live and live safely, municipalities as well as the judiciary need political measures and more resources. Sweden has world-leading companies and industries that have taken the world by storm for many years and thus made it possible for us to finance care, school and elderly care with good welfare. We have all stated politically the importance of getting more companies to export. Then regional export centres need to be effective and be able to guide companies correctly so that they feel confident that they get good help and support. This applies, in particular, to small businesses. I understand that work is now under way at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, which takes on board the criticisms made by the Swedish National Audit Office, and we welcome and follow this closely. Madam President, I would like It is important to measure and monitor activities. That is why it must also be properly stated in essence. The tourism industry is part of regional growth. With this industry in mind, I would like to mention SCB's calculation errors on unemployment in Sweden. It has been brought to our attention that there may be errors in the basis of Statistics Sweden's statistics also in relation to the tourism industry. The situation must be clarified, because it cannot be okay for us in the Swedish Parliament to take decisions on incorrect grounds. The area of regional growth is also followed up internally and in the government's profit and loss report. The review forms the basis for the committee's continued goal and results dialogue with the government for transparency and clarity. This work started in 2014 and is ongoing, and it leads to better accounting as time passes. Finally, Madam President, we have moderates in this area of expenditure a particular demand, as we want the overall draft budget to be seen as a whole in which no part or part can be broken out and treated in isolation.
i-cb800e623166233e-973	Madam President, I would like A year ago, when we debated category 19 Regional growth, Sweden was without government. We did not know at the time who or who was to rule the country in the current term of office, nor with the support of whom. It wasn't finished until a month later. We can now see the path chosen, although it may be a little early to talk about the fact that we are reaping the fruits of the January agreement. The situation in the country is, in many respects, a consequence of the policy pursued over a long period of time before then. The whole of Sweden should live is a seemingly self-evident statement, and it must be one of the most broken phrases in this speaker's chair. That all of Sweden will live has probably been pronounced more times here in this pulpit than there are mosquitoes in my constituency Norrbotten in July. It may seem good if it results in something positive for people in Swedish countryside and does not just stop at empty words. In my own constituency, frustration, or anger, is in some places so obvious that it can almost be touched. And I know that I am not just speaking for Norrbotten in this context. The situation is similar in many places in our elongated country, which is in fact one of Europe's most sparsely populated. Regional growth is therefore an urgent issue for large parts of our country and not just for the northernmost counties. It does not matter whether you reform the municipal tax equalisation system, relocate some authority or send targeted state subsidies in all sense if people in their everyday lives feel that the life puzzle is becoming increasingly difficult and costly to get together. It does not matter when the range of public services and welfare functions is simultaneously centralised to larger locations far away. It doesn't matter when, without available alternatives, you have to use your car to work, shop and greet your older relatives, whose only association is otherwise the stressed-out home care staff who may not even speak our own language very well, if the cost of fuel rises at the same time at a higher rate than anything else without the roads becoming better or the travel allowance compensates for this. Madam President, I would like In my opinion, regional policy, like almost all other policies, is essentially about signalling policy. If you constantly point the finger at the people who live in the countryside or in rural municipalities and think that by living where the metro is not there they are a burden and therefore with vague environmental arguments for what is perceived as a penalty tax at all distances in every possible way you can think of, then you signal with all desirable clarity that more whips are to be expected but that no carrots will be served. This, if anything, hampers regional growth. When, due to a lack of road maintenance, one is forced to reduce the speed of the roads where the distances are at their longest and traffic that is least intense and at the same time twists for high-speed trains – an infrastructural cuckoo of a rare kind – in a completely different part of the country where trains are already available relatively fast, then one has shown what one really thinks in this context. When you introduce an air tax and at the same time promise to compensate the smaller municipal airports without doing so, you have seriously declared your view on the importance of enabling good regional growth. These signals are not only picked up by people living in rural areas or in sparsely populated municipalities. It also sends signals to companies, public activities and potential visitors. Tourists drive less with their caravans and motorhomes and thus miss out on some tourist destinations that are thus lost in revenue, and the long-distance guests may choose not to visit places where you can no longer get by plane. Companies are intimidated by increased transport costs and growing recruitment problems. When it becomes too expensive for people to commute or too difficult to attract hired expertise because the local route is forced to collapse, the companies pack up, at best to move to another place in Sweden, at worst to move abroad for good. Then no fair words are enough. The harsh reality requires more than that. The latest example in the series of such signals is the proposal for a new travel allowance that was presented earlier this year. It has now, after a massive storm of protest, thankfully been sent back by the government to be re-examined. The proposal, if it had been realised, would have been a real manslaughter battle against people's personal finances. It is about ordinary people who may be teachers or nurses and who have got a long way to work after the village school was closed or the little district nursery reception was rationalised away. It is ordinary people who work in mining, forestry, agriculture and the like in places and times that do not allow travel by means other than their own car. Madam President, I would like I am afraid that the government is not taking this seriously enough. I am afraid that the proposal for a new travel allowance was not really considered to be so bad, but that it only backed up when the reactions were too great. And I am afraid that the new proposal we have not yet seen will be a fundamentally as bad proposal, with a series of patches on the wounds to people and businesses outside the metropolitan regions. I am also afraid that it does not end there, but that this is just one in a series of examples of how to look at housing and entrepreneurship outside the metropolitan regions. I believe that it bears witness to a fundamentally poor view of the regions that make up the majority of Sweden's surface – regions that contribute to electricity generation, forest, ore, milk, cereals, paper pulp, steel and more. Rules are repeatedly introduced that make entrepreneurship and housing in these regions difficult. Then there is an attempt to carve up the amount of compensation that, in the worst case, as in the example of the lack of compensation to the small municipal airports, is not even worth the paper on which they are written. Some of this is, of course, due to the Stockholm syndrome-like relationship of Social Democracy with the hostageing Green Party, whose policy for people and businesses in sparsely populated areas is extremely problematic. That is something that the voters in my own constituency also seem to agree with because the Green Party did not even reach 3% in the previous elections. Finally, Madam President, I would like to point out the importance of looking at the whole issue of regional growth. The fact that some laudable things have actually been agreed within the framework of the January agreement from a regional growth perspective is worryingly overshadowed by the fact that the government seems to be almost obsessed with the idea of taxing one of the things we have the most in Sweden, namely distance. Having said that, I would like to wish my parliamentary colleagues and the Bureau a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
i-Bi1ntYp4RP2sS5dtWvkRt6	Madam President, I would like We are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report Area of expenditure 19 Regional growth. I am starting well as I did earlier with the Parliament's decision of 27 November that the total expenditure for category 19 should not exceed EUR 3 672 million for 2020. As the Left Party's proposal for appropriations in the field of expenditure is above this level, I cannot reserve my support for our proposal. That is why I choose to abstain from the position and instead explain the views of the Left Party in a separate opinion. There you can take note of the policy that could have been implemented if the Left Party's proposal had received the support of the Riksdag. The total proposals of the Left Party regarding the state budget can be found in Party Movement 2019/ 20:2915. The motion also includes the Left Party's proposal for a framework for Category 19 expenditure. The proposal for the state budget for 2020 in this area of expenditure is presented in a separate motion called 2019/ 20:3018. The Left Party's draft budget is a plan for equality and green transition, where the Left Party invests in the welfare of municipalities and county councils, reduces the economic gaps, prioritises the economically most vulnerable and proposes a large climate package for a green transition. In particular, the proposal is financed through increased capital taxes and increased taxes on high-income earners. Madam President, I would like With regard to the area of regional growth, I would like to start by highlighting the fact that Sweden has large and growing regional disparities. The Left Party therefore advocates a policy that creates the conditions for everyone to have both the right and the opportunity to live where they want to live in Sweden. There is a need for a comprehensive strategy based on long-term sustainability, developed collaboration, greater regional influence and a clear responsibility for the state to ensure that basic public services exist throughout the country. Access to public services is crucial for people to live and live their lives even in the sparsely populated parts of the country. But government services must also work and be available in rural areas. I see a clear trend that shops are closing down and jobs are disappearing when market forces are given free leeway. In recent decades, the public has been the first to leave the countryside and suburbs to their fate. The latest example of experiments that were about to be completed is, of course, the privatisation of the Public Employment Service. At least it's lucky that the entrance with LOV is gone. But how can one once again think that market forces will solve the problems of the Employment Service? The consequence will be that the state withdraws from another service that is needed throughout the country. Jobs are crucial for the future of rural areas. The state must take overall responsibility for a series of measures that ensure that businesses can be set up, grow and run. I believe that there is a need for another policy, a policy that gives everyone in Sweden the same chances, that one can trust that the welfare society works no matter where one lives and that it provides the conditions for jobs, housing and good public service. I have really seen how the lack of regional policy has pulled our country apart. Sweden should be a country that holds together. The common wealth of Sweden is created by the resources of the whole country and the work of the whole country. Then the fruits of that work will also come to the whole land. One actor who could help is, of course, our joint state-owned companies. There, the owner, through us politicians, could make some demands on them so that jobs are created in rural areas. We have seen how rigidly even these companies begin to treat sparsely populated areas. As I mentioned earlier, the Left Party believes that wealth exploited and turned into resources and jobs carried out throughout the country should also benefit the whole country. We have many examples of taxes collected to the state from parts of the country where natural resources support whole regions, but where the population has the worst service while paying the highest tax. The difference between one who lives in my municipality and one who lives and works here in Stockholm city and earns 30 000 SEK gross is 1 500 SEK. Whoever lives here in Stockholm gets so much more in his hand. That there will then be protests and reactions to the fuel tax is understandable. Often it is people in these municipalities who pay the highest taxes that also have the longest distances to make the everyday puzzle go together. However, the fact that a 1-krona reduction in the tax on petrol would save the countryside is incorrect marketing. Now to the difference between our proposal and the government's money – I know it's not big, but this money could make a difference in some municipalities. These are grants 1:1 Regional growth measures, SEK 30 million for 2020, in order to introduce targeted support to municipalities with a high proportion of forest excluded from production and protected natural areas, in order to promote increased tourism. For many sparsely populated municipalities, the high proportion of protected forests, although the interest of visitors for protected areas is increasing, can in the short term have a negative impact on employment and tax revenues. These municipalities thus bear a significant responsibility for the collective benefits provided by protected forests with high natural values, and I believe that they should therefore be compensated by increased state aid for targeted tourism initiatives or making available and marketing the areas at all.
i-cb800e623166233e-1001	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that, because the Christian Democrats' proposal for appropriations in the field of expenditure is above the level of the government, I cannot reserve myself in favour of the proposal. That is why I choose to refrain from taking a position and instead put forward a specific opinion. All people, regardless of their place of residence, should be able to benefit from society's basic social rights and public services and be given reasonable opportunities to make a living. The main task of regional development policy is to contribute to the development of viable regions throughout the country. Regional development, whether rural or urban, with its different challenges, can of course be promoted through a variety of actions. But these must be combined with specific regional growth efforts taking into account the diversity of the country. We have regions that are growing so fast that the social functions do not really keep up. We have other regions marked by the other side of the coin, where population reductions risk leading to domino effects and downward spirals. Sweden needs a policy that holds the country together and counteracts fragmentation between different senders. First of all, let me highlight some general efforts of importance to growth: . Taxes and charges should contribute to competitiveness and the regulatory burden on entrepreneurs must be substantially reduced. The energy supply must be secured throughout the country. Energy supply creates investment and security in the basic industry, whose regional importance is very high but which is hampered when parts of the country are forced to ask themselves if electricity is sufficient. 中 Injecting extra force into the strongly growing tourism industry. Here we Christian Democrats want to see, among other things, good access to places within the university of applied sciences and greatly increased professional qualifications. This can facilitate the supply of skills in shortage professions, for example in the tourism industry. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to dwell on some proposals relating to rural areas. In many parts of the country, the availability of both government and commercial services is deteriorating. In ten years, every fourth grocery store has disappeared, and pharmacies and postal agents have decreased by 17 and 22 per cent, respectively, over a seven-year period. We Christian Democrats have in our budget a series of important rural reforms in addition to the government's proposals. Our rural package includes increased levels of travel deductions, tax reductions for farmers, efforts against wild boars and targeted care in sparsely populated areas. In order to build the country together in the area of expenditure we are discussing, we are adding 20 million more per year in 2020– 2022 under regional growth measures in an effort at the important grocery stores in rural areas. The local grocery store often serves as the hub of the locality. In addition to having somewhere to buy the most necessary, the shop is a meeting point that contributes to social cohesion. And once there is a store, there is often also access to proxy services from post office, pharmacy and Systembolaget. A functioning service offering is often fundamental for more companies to be able to exist and develop in the area. Madam President, I would like The increasing urbanisation is probably one of the driving factors behind the fact that many shops in rural and rural areas have had more difficulty in investing in their businesses or have had to close down. In 2015, the government introduced special operating aid for grocery stores in vulnerable and vulnerable areas, which was welcome. At present, approximately 240 stores receive the aid. In view of the key role played by shops for the whole of Sweden to live, we Christian Democrats believe that support should be increased and more allocated, and that is why we are doing this extension. Ensuring the presence of authorities is also a crucial basis for regional development. Service offices are a good way to gather the services of different authorities so that basic government services are available around the country. The government is expanding with 27 new offices in the budget, but only 4 of these are located in rural municipalities. Under Category 2, we are investing in another 7 rural offices. Madam President, I would like I shall conclude with a measure that we Christian Democrats propose bearing on regional development and which we, as the only party, propose, and that is that we want to enable regional and municipal airports to procure their own lines. Road and rail development is needed, but for the regional industry there may also be routes of a high strategic nature. On this issue, we Christian Democrats are now receiving the backing of the SKR Congress – Sweden's Municipalities and Regions – which believes that the state should investigate the issue.
i-cb800e623166233e-1017	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the Enterprise Committee's report NU2 on regional growth. I support the committee's proposal as a whole. We need a policy that is better adapted to the different conditions that exist locally and regionally. Sweden's countryside is different. The countryside where I live, in Fölshult in Älmhult municipality, does not have the same challenges as the countryside where Birger Lathi lives, in Kaarnevaara in Pajala municipality. The most basic thing is that we have a well-being that works everywhere – school, health care and care. This is the focus for us Social Democrats, because if welfare does not work, it is difficult to make ends meet for the rest of our lives. This applies whether you are a woman or a man or an old or a young person. We need to invest more in welfare, for jobs and growth. Here the welfare billions are important, and also the change in the cost equalisation system that takes effect after the end of the year and where we make a redistribution from city to country. There must also be service at a reasonable distance from where you live. That is why farmers' support is important and a prerequisite for small shops in rural areas. This has left the country store at home in Häradsbäck in Älmhult municipality. It would not have existed if the aid had not come. Traders can also receive support for investments, where municipalities can help with municipal services, such as at home in my county in several places where the municipality pays the store to have a library. The rural store is not only a shop but also an important meeting place. Often it is possible to have a coffee, but there is also government service in the form of pharmacies, mail and agents to Systembolaget. The government's new objective for regional growth policy is development power with enhanced local and regional competitiveness for sustainable development in all parts of the country. To achieve this objective, the Government has identified four priority areas: What we see around our elongated country is that our different rural areas do not develop in a way that is desirable. Urbanisation continues. How can we in politics ensure that it is possible to live and work throughout Sweden? There are no simple answers to that question. We need to do many different things in most policy areas. Madam President, I would like In order for people to live in rural areas, the infrastructure must work. That is why we are spending money on roads, railways and broadband in the draft budget. The broadband issue is very important for people to be able to educate themselves remotely but also for our green industries. Whether you are a dairy farmer or a plant grower, you need to be connected today. Green industries are a prerequisite for living rural areas, for keeping our landscape open, for biodiversity and also for food security. There is still much to be done to increase food production and our level of self-sufficiency. Here we have decided on a food strategy and a farmer's package to strengthen its implementation. It is also good for climate and environment that we produce food here in Sweden. The food we produce here gives a smaller carbon footprint than the imported food. The forest is another part of the green industries that are of great importance to Sweden's prosperity. It is important for jobs, growth, climate and the environment. Here we are now taking a look at the national forest programme so that we can be even better at making the best use of the forest. We could see that in my own country this week. Södra Skogsägare och Ikea invests SEK 300 million in ten years for research and education in Kronoberg County, just as far as the forest is concerned. These are very important bets. It is also believed in industry. The tourism industry is one of our fastest growing industries, and much of the tourism industry is located in rural areas. People come here for our beautiful nature where we are unique with our right of public access. In 2018, tourism accounted for SEK 337 billion according to the Swedish Agency for Growth and contributed to 3,000 new jobs. Of course, the tourism industry is also very important for our metropolitan regions. Here the government is developing a strategy for the tourism industry that will be a tool for developing the industry even more. Madam President, I would like We need a policy that holds the country together and contributes to the sustainable development of cities, urban areas, sparsely populated areas and rural areas. Regional policy is as important for the city as for rural areas. We need to invest in jobs and growth throughout Sweden. City and country depend on each other. What we see is that there are similar problems in our socio-economically vulnerable areas as in rural areas. This applies, for example, to the absence of public authorities and municipal and commercial services. This also applies to service offices. There we are now making efforts to get more service offices in Sweden. That is why we need a regional policy that develops the whole of Sweden, whether it is a city or a country. With that I wish: Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!
i-cb800e623166233e-1033	Madam President, I would like We agree on a great deal, but there are also some differences. I asked for the floor to ask a question about the core of welfare. We've got a slow-down. We don't know what happens if there's a recession. Eight out of ten municipalities have alerted us that they are not doing so well. There are strong signals that it will even be miserable. Savings need to be made in many of Sweden's municipalities. It is about demography, high levels of immigration and declining economic activity that are pressing the municipalities and our regions. We Moderates have chosen to make general investments in our budget. We add 9 billion more to state subsidies to municipalities and regions than the government does. When you send state subsidies that are targeted, it means a commitment from the other side. In the current situation, we see that the most opportunities are created if local and regional authorities are allowed to see where they can make the best contribution to the money they receive. That is why my question to Monica Haider is: how do you intend to solve that problem? I feel that there will be a number of knots along the way.
i-cb800e623166233e-1037	Madam President, I would like We are investing heavily in welfare. We are also phasing out a great deal of general state subsidies, and we need to do more. There will be more spending on welfare, but not in this budget. We fully agree that we need to add more money to the municipalities and regions. We will do the same in the future.
i-cb800e623166233e-1038	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an answer that sounds uplifting. We must follow the question so that we can see that it will be a workshop and not just words. I will leave that question and raise an issue that I am passionate about. Amongst many other issues, it is important for rural areas. It's about farm sales. I wonder: what is the state of the government? Proposals have been said for 2020. Do we see a result in January? When do we see that farm sales will be possible?
i-cb800e623166233e-1041	Madam President, I would like I could make it very simple for myself and say that the question is being prepared in the Government Office. Actually, that's what's being done. Precisely when there is a proposal, I cannot respond today.
i-UmRTcUgNomANqzMxQ8CURu	Madam President, I would like I should like to call for the committee's proposal in the report and the rejection of Category 19 motions on regional growth and the distribution of the SEK 3 672 525 000 next year. The objective of regional growth policy, as we have just heard, is development power with enhanced local and regional competitiveness for sustainable development in all parts of the country. Sustainable development refers to socially, economically and environmentally sustainable development. Strengthening local and regional competitiveness is meant to create the conditions for industry to strengthen both its productivity and its opportunities to develop new and sustainable activities, business models and markets. Regional growth policies should promote the development of sustainable and efficient local and regional institutions and innovation environments and promote more directly the competitiveness of businesses, for example through the provision of capital. The committee has repeatedly pointed out that it is difficult to follow up the objectives of regional growth policy, which, of course, is not good because we want the money to have the greatest possible impact. Both the committee and the government have noted that a number of factors affect regional development. The impact of regional growth policies is therefore difficult to measure and distinguish from other overall cyclical and structural changes. Here the government has a job to do. Madam President, I would like I think there is a window open for a good regional policy and rural policy in Sweden. Many parties have joined the line from which my party. The Center Party was formed almost 110 years ago, and it is gratifying. The urbanisation that we all see creates many problems both in the regions that are losing their population and in the regions that are suffering from housing shortages and congestion. It seems to be a never-ending source of problems and exclusion. We see an increasingly clear division of the country where people gather under different slogans such as the Inland Uprising, which then becomes the Rural Rebellion, the Bensin Rebellion and many other uprisings and appeals. Why has it become like this? I am not a scientist, but it is very close to believing that it is about the link with globalisation, urbanisation, social media and an increasingly individualised society where trust in authority is becoming less and less. In short, people want to do things their own way, don't trust in power and get upset if they don't get what they want. Madam President, I would like I would like to take a few short examples from my home municipality of Mora, but it could be any rural town in Sweden. Mora is a rural municipality with approximately 20 000 inhabitants, but it is also a central location for a surrounding country with around 70 000 people. We live in industry, tourism and commerce. For several years, government agencies such as the Swedish National Courts Authority, the Swedish Tax Agency and now the Swedish Enforcement Authority have wanted to move their offices. They have also moved away from Mora with the argument that competence only exists in colleges and universities. I find these arguments about the lack of competence outside the big cities offensive to the people who live outside the larger cities. To this you can add that the Swedish Transport Administration has stopped air traffic at our airport and that the government cannot agree to solve the problem. There are no major investments on Dalabanan, which is our railway down to Stockholm. And it should be said that it is not a high - speed railway, but the average speed is just over 70 kilometres per hour. The drop was when the Swedish Transport Administration set up a high fence along the railway track through our beautiful town of Mora, located on the shore of Siljan. So now a two - meter - high fence has been set up that cuts off the whole city against the water. The beautiful place that we once had now has the character of an internment camp. Building permits have not been applied for, and the municipality has not been informed of this at all. This has become a hot thing back in Mora. The contempt for authorities and for the state to act like this creates an even greater breeding ground for discontent parties and populism. If we are to keep the whole country together, it is not enough to spend some money on some Leader project on fishing tourism, which is in itself a good thing. There's nothing wrong with that, but it takes a lot more. Through the January agreement and budgetary cooperation with the government and the Liberals, we have achieved a great deal of rural efforts that have reduced taxes for rural people, who pay a high municipal tax without, for that reason, getting any better service. More is being invested in broadband, compensation for forest owners and farmers' packages. There is a lot of investment in railway and road maintenance, country merchants and much more. In the January agreement, there will be even more issues that strengthen rural areas. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, Sweden needs a regional policy worthy of the name. Even more effort is needed on rail, road and air in the second most sparsely populated country of the EU, not only between the three major cities and the coast of Norrland, but also to the whole country. Broadband aid, for example, should go to those parts of Sweden where market forces are not enough. That is not the case today. Access to state risk capital should also go to weak markets where access to capital is difficult to obtain. We must put an end to the power of the Directors-General to abandon large parts of the country. When the government relocates a small part of the state jobs that have been created in Stockholm, this should be done to places that have lost government activity and not to university cities and regional centres. The government should stop the speed reductions implemented by the Finnish Transport Administration in rural areas. It may not be a big issue here in Stockholm, but at home in Dalarna there is a rage that Trafikverket lowers the speed of the roads. There must be an end to taking forest and land from people without the state doing the right thing. And – perhaps a little local politics – the government must make a decision so that we can resume air traffic from our airport in Mora before the jobs leave northern Dalarna for good. If we want to rebuild a social contract that holds the country together, trust and confidence in our authorities must be restored. What should we answer the citizens when they ask whether we elected politicians are not in charge of the country? Perhaps it is time to review the Swedish state administration system. I do not have the power to initiate such an investigation, but I have a proposal for a name: The investigation could be called Axel Oxenstierna 2.0 I wish the President, together with colleagues, my colleagues in the Committee on Economic Affairs and Rural Development and everyone in Sweden a white and merry Christmas.
i-cb800e623166233e-1062	Madam President, I would like I live in Värmland and grew up in Vaggeryd in Småland. Sweden is more than a few big cities. It should be possible to live and work throughout Sweden, whether you have chosen to live in Höljes in Värmland, in Umeå in Västerbotten or in one of our metropolitan areas, and at the same time have access to a basic public service. It is about things like being able to run businesses, to train and to have access to functioning infrastructure. Everyone should be able to live as you want, wherever you want. Liberals want all of Sweden's development power, growth potential and employment opportunities to be exploited. It is entrepreneurship and economic development that are the basis of our prosperity. That is why people and businesses all over the country must be given the opportunity to grow and develop. Regional development throughout the country also requires a well-functioning housing policy and a well-developed commercial as well as public services in order for a locality to be attractive and attract labour. There are many liberal gains in the January agreement. In the political agreement between us in the Liberals, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Center Party, we have agreed on several proposals that provide good conditions to enable the whole of Sweden to develop and to create a better business environment. These include, for example, improved communications, more flexible beach protection, changes in corporate taxation, increased RUT deductions, reduced hassle for entrepreneurs and digital infrastructure throughout the country. Madam President, I would like If Sweden is to grow, more jobs are needed. More jobs in growing companies mean increased tax revenues, which in turn can finance our common welfare. Sweden therefore needs a business-friendly policy, and this is not achieved by increasing taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. Instead, regulatory simplification and a business-friendly environment are needed. It should be easy to do the right thing, and it should be easy to run your own business. In addition, entrepreneurship needs to run as a red thread throughout the education system. One of the main obstacles to expansion and new employment is the difficulty of obtaining funding. More than half of Sweden's small businesses find it quite or very difficult to obtain external funding for day-to-day operations and investments. A functioning financing system for small and medium-sized enterprises facing expansion creates both jobs, growth and increased revenue for our common well-being. That is exactly what the countryside needs. In order for the whole of Sweden to grow, a good infrastructure is also needed. Strategicly important infrastructure needs to be prioritised and developed in order to keep up with both citizens and business and business needs. Working communications are important for jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country. This calls for continued investment in rail, road and other infrastructure. Madam President, I would like We need a sustainable Sweden for humans, animals and nature – from farm to table. Agriculture provides jobs, food and biodiversity. More people in the world get good food through market forces, free trade and sustainable production. In Sweden, we want the entire country's development power to be taken advantage of. Farms are important for living rural areas, for jobs, for biodiversity and for us to have good food on the table. We must also protect property rights. Environmental and nature conservation efforts will be conducted in good dialogue with landowners who have managed and managed their forests and land through many generations. Sweden is more than a few big cities. It should be possible to live and work wherever you want and at the same time have access to a functioning and basic public service at a reasonable distance. This applies to public authorities as well as municipal and commercial services. Everyone should be able to live as you want, wherever you want.
i-cb800e623166233e-1073	Madam President, I would like Today a happy news was presented. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency published new statistics showing that climate emissions are now decreasing in Sweden. Climate taxes are the basis for such an effective climate policy in Sweden. But climate taxes and petrol taxes are controversial, not least they are raised by some in this debate. I would therefore like to raise the question of the geographical distribution effects of petrol tax, where RUT has provided me with a basis. The Moderates have proposed a reduction in the climate tax on petrol by l kroner. This totals just over SEK 2 billion. Only 8% of these 2 billion would go to rural areas. 63 percent would go to the big cities. In terms of distribution, 51 per cent of the money goes to Götaland, 36 per cent to Svealand and 13 per cent to Norrland. We must reduce climate emissions from traffic by 70%. I can put all my political credibility on one fact: it is absolutely impossible to do it without economic instruments. But climate taxes are under threat. Moderate leader Ulf Kristersson put his head on the wrong foot and said that this affects the countryside. Kristersson is wrong: it affects the big cities in particular. It would be a small comfort for rural areas to have cheaper fuel costs at the expense of the fact that it would primarily benefit the drive in the big cities. We simply need a much better and more accurate rural policy than that. At the same time, I would like to point out that the car is needed in rural areas. That is precisely why we need to invest more in the expansion of fossil-free fuels and electrification of vehicles in rural areas. Today, the vehicles rolling in rural areas are on average older and more fuel consuming. The objective must therefore be to modernise rural areas much more quickly, because cars are needed there and the metro is not an option. The government presented a conversion subsidy the other week, which means that all individuals should be able to apply for money to convert their petrol car to ethanol or biogas operations. That is a step in the right direction. Climate change also provides wider access to fossil-free fuels throughout the country. The whole country will grow. It should be possible to live, live and work throughout Sweden. And I want to give the expression a dispute: it will be possible to live, live and work for climate change throughout the country. We also need rural people's efforts to combat climate change, and it should be economically sustainable for them to be involved. It should be possible to live fossil-free even where the subway does not go. A first step is the compensation made in the state budget for the increased climate taxes. It is a tax reduction for people in sparsely populated areas of SEK 1,450 a year. Solidarity is a word found in the DNA of the Green Party. Sweden will become a fossil-free welfare nation. If I can take the train from Uppsala to Parliament, someone else in Vilhelmina can take the car to their job. We must reach climate targets together. The transition is much faster when we work together. Investments for growth and jobs are important for climate change. The priorities of the Structural Funds for the transition to a low-carbon economy are extremely important. For the next programming period, it is essential that Sweden continues to prioritise climate change in regional growth efforts. Efforts must also be more able to be directed precisely to rural areas. Rural areas are the engine of the Green Party's policy for the green transition. We want to see strong rural development. Outside the big cities there is a large space for a modern and sustainable lifestyle. For rural areas of the future, the Green Party believes that we must: Investing to reduce regional disparities and improve opportunities for living, working and living Developing the role of rural areas as a driving force for the green transition, focusing on food, energy, nature and resource management 中 invest in good communications
i-cb800e623166233e-1089	中 invest in digitalisation and broadband development. There's rebellion. There are a lot of people around the country who are committed to the countryside. There are also strong voices showing something even more powerful: the builders. Leader Höga Kusten writes in Dagens Nyheter:a job, a huge driving force and – in contrast to the media image – many strong companies hungry for skilled labour. And at a time when many are under increasing pressure, there is something that is becoming more and more important: time. ..................................................... It is high time to settle up with the city as the norm, too. We want to see more attitude efforts, with more resources and coordination, to strengthen the positive image of the countryside and get more people to choose a modern, sustainable lifestyle that makes all of Sweden live. ..................................................... There is also reason to lift up the Värmland initiative to show the world the way. They say in an interview in Värmlands Folkblad the other day: We had a party leader debate on television a while ago, and one of the questions was what a living countryside costs. It would have been called: Can we afford growing cities? They continue: In the short term, rising petrol prices can be difficult for us, but in the long term it can be good for rural areas. For example, you think about where you shop, and the local store can be strengthened. Those behind the initiative are themselves entrepreneurs and food producers and recognise that increased petrol prices can affect them financially, but they also see the benefits and that a certain part of their production could be strengthened. Madam President, I would like I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the motions. Then I would like to wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I would like to say to Peter Helander that we need to talk a little more about the state authorities in the country. I visited the SGU in Malå this summer and have a lot of suggestions and ideas on how to strengthen the work.
i-cb800e623166233e-1098	Madam President, I would like I'll admit I'm making a bad guy. I forgot to wish my colleagues Merry Christmas and Happy New Year, so I thought I still had the chance. To the private office, Madam President, my colleagues and the staff of our own private office, I wish you a really nice and wonderful day.
i-cb800e623166233e-1099	Madam President, I would like I agree.
i-cb800e623166233e-1100	Madam President, I would like The previous line I wasn't prepared for. It got a little short. For those of us who have children, it is fundamental not to correct children's behaviour by first punishing without first offering an alternative. If children do not follow the good alternatives, it is only then that they will have a consequence in the form of punishment. I think it would be good to think this way in politics, not punishing people in rural areas, but offering them a realistic alternative. My question is therefore: how does Mr Gardfjell view punishing rural people who do not have a sensible alternative to their own car?
i-cb800e623166233e-1103	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Eric Palmqvist! I would never dream of looking at the rural people of Sweden as if they were children. Of course, there are children in the countryside, but they are adults who drive and own cars. I believe that the government and Sweden's climate policy is very differentiated. We work in different ways. It is not about punishment, it is about creating opportunities. The most important and effective investment in the car is the change of fuel, which is about phasing more fossil-free fuels into the fuels. This means that everyone in Sweden, regardless of what you drive for petrol or diesel cars, is involved and contributes to climate change. It is the most effective investment made in Sweden.
i-cb800e623166233e-1106	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr President, for your answer. My example is about children but is also applicable to adults. It's about how you want people to change behavioral patterns. Of course, there are alternative fuels, but it is not yet realistic to implement them in areas with very long distances, cold climates and so on. You cannot demand that people buy expensive electric cars, which may not meet their transport needs. It can be seen as another charge added to all the charges already imposed on people in sparsely populated areas. How does the honourable Member view this?
i-cb800e623166233e-1108	Madam President, I would like I see it as self-evident that we must create the conditions for everyone in Sweden to participate in contributing to a fossil-free Sweden. It is not at all a question of forcing someone to buy a certain car, it is a question of being able to buy a biogas car, an electric car or any other vehicle even if you live in Pajala or Karesuando or elsewhere in Sweden. I think it is extremely important to see the whole work of changing behaviour patterns not as something printed on individuals but as something about what we do together. I mentioned in my speech that we in the Green Party regard solidarity as an important concept. I see it as important that if I, who live in the city, can contribute, the person who lives in the countryside can continue to drive.
