ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Dejan Židan, Nada Brinovšek, Matjaž Han until 4 p.m., Joseph Horvat from 3 p.m. on, Franz Rosec, mag. Andrej Shircelj, Susanna Beautiful Šimenko, mag. Andrej Reich, Zvonko Černač by 2 p.m., Samo Bevk, Jelka Godec, Lidija Ivanuša, Felice Žiža, mag. Bojana Muršič from 13 a.m. on, Anja Bah Žibert, Primož Siter from 11 a.m. on, Dr. Franc Runk of 10. 30 more, mag. Dušan Verbič from 12:00 on, Igor Zorčič from 15:00 on, Ivan Hršak from 16:00 on and Nataša Sukič from 12:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we proceed with the meeting, allow me to address the National Assembly on this day of sovereignty. Respectable citizens, respected citizens, Members and Members of Parliament! Today we celebrate the day of sovereignty. Today we remember one of the key events in the process of independence of Slovenia, as on this day in 1991 the Slovenian land left the last soldier of the Yugoslav People's Army. The day of sovereignty, together with the Day of Independence and Unity and the Day of Statehood, represents one of the milestones of the separation of the Slovenian people from the multinational community created after the first world war in 1918, and after the second world war since 1945 it was transformed into a country with a totalitarian non-democratic regime in which both human and national rights were severely violated. Indeed, the violation of these rights was a fundamental reason for initiating and receiving in the population plebiscite support for the self-sustainment process which led to the independent state of Slovenia. The required time at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s required a great deal of courage and determination from policy protagonists. It is therefore right that on such occasions we are aware of and recall the historical facts and events that have led to our country of Slovenia. Allow me to mention just a few milestones on this independent route. First of all, the 57th issue of the New magazine, in which the authors of the contributions reawakened the Slovenian national country's vocabulary and idea and processed it with several aspects. This was followed by the writing constitution, which presented and established a basic legal framework for the future country. The people were waking up, the fires were coming out of the fires. The response of the then communist and military authorities was radical. According to the doctrine of the day, an internal enemy was found. The regime shut down four young people. The four JBTZs were tried in the territory of Slovenia by a court-martial in a foreign language. Spontaneous protests have arisen, and the Human Rights Committee has been set up as a civil society institution to defend the human rights of four political prisoners. The Majniška Declaration followed, in which the intention of the sovereign country of the Slovenian people was clearly expressed again. The process could no longer be stopped; the intimate consent of the people was too great. The constitutional additions to the Republic Constitution have ensured the necessary legality of the processes of self-reliance, but we can also understand them as a step in the current pro-Yugoslav-oriented Slovenian policy in order to make itself the ideal and political leader of the inevitable process of self-reliance. The first multilateral elections followed, which strongly but not sufficiently changed the political image of Slovenia. The New Demos Authority carried out plebiscite, on which the inhabitants of Slovenia were almost unanimously identified as independent and independent Slovenia. On 25 June 1991, a fundamental constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia was also announced, which definitively cut ties with the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The self-sustainment process continued with the ten-day war and ended with the inevitable military and political victory of the Slovenian people, and ended just this day in 1991 when the Slovenian territory left the last soldier of the Yugoslav army. Your Honor! In today’s globalized world, full of uncertainty, we face unrest. Both Slovenia and Europe are once again faced with the challenges of totalitarian samples on various bases that undermine peace and freedom of spirit, life and creation. Slovenia and the vast majority of European countries have so far done too little to stop these erosion processes. It is not possible for foreigners legally entering our territories to have better status, more rights and cities as well as a better financial position than those in European countries who are working hard to have a better life for themselves and their descendants and contribute to the common good by their work. Foreigners can't and can't enforce the rules we're going to live by, or it won't be our country anymore. Unfortunately, our and European policies give illegal crowds who illegally invade Europe's borders this privileged position. Your Honor! We are proud of the unity of the nation nearly thirty years ago and are grateful to all who have sacrificed themselves for our independence. Also for their patriotism and courage, which enabled us to live as a free and sovereign nation. Let's always keep this in front of our eyes! By our ability to be solidarity with people in distress, solidarity also to those outside our borders, but let us work primarily for the benefit of our citizens and our one and only Slovenia, these beautiful countries under Triglav. Honest congratulations on the state holiday of independence! [[Applause]] We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE LAW ON THE APPLICATION OF RIGHTS FROM PUBLIC RESOURCES. The draft law was tabled by a group of seven Members and Members with first-signed Joseph Horvat. With regard to this bill, a group of 11 Members and Members, with first-signed Joseph Horvat, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of proposalant Ivi Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u2	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! By amending the law on the exercise of rights from public funds in New Slovenia, we want to simply exclude student work and scholarships from the family's total income. Of course, we also set up a security guard to what extent that would happen. However, the student and the student work are practically met every day at every step, and all of us have met or done it. Most of the time, the student work is carried out for mutual benefit, in the interest of the student, the student and the employer. According to the Statistical Office of Slovenia, student work has been reduced by almost 25% from 2008 until now. In 2008, an average of 42,000 people worked each quarter. Ten years later, the number was about 31 thousand. This has certainly been influenced by various factors, such as small generations, poor pay, but in New Slovenia we are convinced that it has a great and strong impact on reducing the interlocking of social and family policies. All the time in New Slovenia, we stress the need to separate family and social policy. Income taken into account in determining the material situation of each individual and family shall be treated as income and remuneration of all persons in accordance with Article 12 of the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. This is a total of 24 different incomes and benefits. These include student work, student work, and human resources scholarships. For each hour of student work, the student must pay a contribution to pension and disability insurance and the employer is obliged to pay additional contributions and benefits. The student’s work shall be carried out by at least two important social tasks. For the first time, it allows students and students to enter the labour market in a softer way through work, to gain their first working experience, and to make many contacts with employers from whom they are educated. However, another important task of the student or student work is that the socially weaker students and students are presented with social corrections and, as a result, provide education for the desired education, even if they come from socially weaker families. They also perform the same function as staff scholarships. The purpose of the law, which we are considering today, is to exempt staff scholarships and income for temporary and temporary work, on the basis of an authorised organisation's or the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia, from the family's income in the exercise of rights from public funds. In Novi Slovenija we are committed to improving the situation of families, students and students doing such work, especially those with multiple children and single mothers, who are too often due to a few cents of the overpriced family price at a subsidized lunch, lunch and have higher rent of non-profit apartments. Work is a value and, as recognised experts and psychologists say, working habits in children begin at birth. It is not right that parents, because of such anomalies, increasingly disapprove of student work and then are left to their computers, streets, and social benefits. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats want to support our proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In order to introduce the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Urban Krajcar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The rights arising from public funds under the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds are those rights which depend on the material situation of the person. The fundamental feature of social protection rights is their subsidiarity. This is also followed by the current regime for the consideration of revenue from public funds rights based on the principle that all incomes and benefits should be taken into account, except those allocated for a specific purpose or intended to cover specific needs. This means taking into account all the income mentioned in the law in question, currently also the staff scholarships and the income of the student and student work. It is important to note that there are different rules for taking account of these revenues. For example, the income of students and students in the monthly entitlements from public funds is already taken into account only today in the amount of the difference between the average monthly amount of the occasional income received over the last three months before the month of the application and the 0,5 basic amount of the minimum income, which means that, when taking into account the income of the students and students, these average monthly amounts of up to 200 euros in the determination of the material situation are no longer taken into account and thus do not affect the right to financial social assistance, protective allowance and rent subsidies. Regarding the social property of families, we stress that at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, we regularly monitor the social situation of individuals and families in Slovenia and propose legislative changes accordingly. If I give you just a few examples from the last period. As of January 2016, the basic amount of the minimum income increased to EUR 288, increasing the amount of both regular and extraordinary financial social assistance. There was an increase in the number of beneficiaries of the subsidy of lunch for pupils or the introduction of 70 % of the subsidy of lunch for pupils from families belonging to the second income class and 40 % of the subsidy of lunch for pupils from the third income class. In the area of the child allowance, only this amount increased by 10 % in the fifth and sixth income classes, to a level before the implementation of the austerity measures. However, a fifth income class was partially introduced in the State grant, which enabled those with an average monthly income of up to 65% per family member to benefit from the State grant. From 1 January 2018, it was possible to receive the child allowance for families of the seventh and eighth income classes. Also in 2018, the basic amount of the minimum income was temporarily raised to EUR 385 and later increased to EUR 392 in line with the rise in prices of living needs. Today, as you know, it amounts to 402 euros, which further raises the basic social security of individuals and families. At the end of 2018, the amendment of the Social Security Benefits Act preserved the basic amount of the minimum income at the level of the above-mentioned EUR 392. This measure ensured basic social security and prevented the basic amount of the minimum income on the basis of which monetary social assistance is calculated from falling to 331 euros, which would mean that 3 000 600 recipients would lose financial social assistance and over 52,000 beneficiaries would be reduced. As a result, as of 1 January 2019, all beneficiaries of monetary social assistance and the social security allowance were preserved by 30 % more than in May 2018. After six years, all family austerity measures were abolished from 2019. Thus the father and parental compensation is once again 100 % of the individual’s average salary in the last 12 months, the allowance for a large family is once again a universal right and can be received by all large families, regardless of the income situation, the maternity allowance is unlimited and the parental allowance is limited to 2.5 times the average wage. With effect from 1 July 2019, children's allowances, state scholarships and child care allowances, large family allowances, child support and parental allowance increased by 2.4% in line with the growth of living needs. Your Honor! The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities notes that these measures have strengthened the situation of families with children, but also notes that legislation which is the basis for deciding the rights of public funds is extremely complex and can have an unfair effect mainly on the consideration of income and property. Only in specific cases does complex legislation show that the rules are not in line, so it is necessary, as it says, to take an integrated approach to the non-compliance of legislation. The Ministry is therefore in the process of simplifying social legislation, which will be more user-friendly and more equitable to share social transfers. The possibility of introducing a new way of taking into account incomes and their impact on social transfers will also be explored as regards the income of students and students and the staff scholarships proposed by the proposer. The aim is thus to determine whether certain incomes can be taken into account differently in order to achieve their purpose and to relieve the social weaknesses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Lenart will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. All present guests, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! The Group of Members and Members shall be 16. 9. 2019 has tabled a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds. In Slovenia, the system of enforcement of public funds rights is combined in one law. A right from public funds shall be granted where the income of a person does not reach the income limit laid down by this Act for an individual right from public funds and where other conditions laid down by the rules governing an individual right are met. Thus, in Slovenia, individuals and families may, if they meet the legal conditions, apply different transfers from public funds: from child allowances, scholarships, lunch and lunch subsidies, kindergarten subsidies, rent subsidies for housing, family allowance, protective allowance, regular and extraordinary social assistance, and others. With them, the country is pursuing the goal of preventing families and individuals from falling into social and financial distress and poverty. Social transfers significantly reduce poverty, which was 13.3% in Slovenia in 2018. In Slovenia, however, we have a very bad demographic picture. The low birth rate is also partly dependent on appropriate family and social policies. Unfortunately, these two are united in a roof law, which is the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. This, as has already been said, sets out all rights from public funds, both monetary benefits and subsidies. Revenues taken into account in determining the amount of individual rights from public funds include staff scholarships and student work. Because of the occasional work of students and students or obtained a staff scholarship, a number of families whose children work are in a worse position than those whose children are not working. Damaged and in some ways punished good families at the end of this story, as part of the occasional work of children lose other benefits or subsidies. However, it is right that we continue to raise our children to work, and the proposal to supplement the law follows that work is of value and that dignity is rewarded. Staff scholarships have recently played an important role and were a motivational moment in providing staff in the company. Today they have lost much of their role, as entrepreneurs, employers in some area are saving more. On the other hand, a number of economic operators face a shortage of staff of certain profiles, and they still decide to grant staff scholarships so as to ensure adequately qualified staff and future workers. However, according to the existing law, human resources scholarships are included in income, which is the basis for the calculation of individual rights from public funds. Some students and students, especially those from socially weaker families, do not therefore choose to obtain a staff scholarship. The proposal to supplement the law to exempt from the income of the family, which is taken into account in the exercise of rights from public funds, from scholarships and student work, is also important for the Slovenian economy and for the progress and development of the country. Educated young people will be motivated and employed in their most productive years, driving the development and economic growth of the country. It is therefore necessary to remove obstacles that make it difficult for young people to study and to establish favourable conditions for work for which long-term needs exist as soon as possible. A welcome work experience and a way to improve the material position of a student or student is also a work through a student service. Therefore, if a student wants to work to achieve better and easier educational goals, his better material situation should not affect the material situation and social status of the entire family. The existing law and the resulting rights to remuneration and subsidies are therefore not fair. Since in the Slovenian Democratic Party we assess that the proposed amendment to the law is positive both for young students and students and for their families as well as for the Slovenian economy, we will support the law. On this occasion, everyone present, as well as all citizens and citizens of Slovenia, will have a proud celebration of the day of sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Nik Prebil will present the position of the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u8	Good morning, Mr Vice President, colleagues and fellow Members! Today I will start a little differently and at the beginning I will rely mainly on young people in the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarc. Young people in today’s society face many obstacles on the one hand, including housing problems, job search, and, on the other hand, many benefits such as subsidised student diet and transport, we can say in most free studies and staff scholarships. We stand behind young people in the LMŠ Group because we are aware that young people are part of a society on which the future is based. At the same time, we are always open to finding solutions that in any way help to improve the situation not only of a weaker population, but also of finding solutions that guarantee a decent life for all people and people of Slovenia. With staff scholarships, young people can gain work experience at the study, pay for the work they have done and, later, regular employment. Today, when we consider a novel that would exempt staff scholarships and incomes for temporary or temporary work on the basis of a travel contract – of course, we are talking about this student or student work – from taking into account income in the exercise of rights from public funds, we must take into account all the aspects that the adoption of such a novelty would bring. Social legislation, which determines rights from public funds, is extremely complex in our country. Moreover, sometimes it can really work unfairly, especially when we are talking about taking into account income or property. For this reason, in the LMŠ Group, we believe that the possibility of introducing a new way of taking into account incomes and consequently the impact of incomes on social transfers should first be considered. This should already be done by the Ministry of Labour, which is preparing a proposal for amendments to the law, which will help us achieve a simpler, more uniform and, most importantly, more equitable sharing of social transfers. In this context, we expect concrete solutions that will go in the direction of improving the situation of young people, as well as the conditions for young people not only to make decisions, but also to make better use of the possibility of obtaining a human resources grant. Let us not forget, however, that we have taken certain measures to strengthen the situation of the various social groups, with the government of Marjan Šarc, immediately at the beginning of the mandate. We have raised the minimum wage, cash social assistance and social security allowance, we have eliminated all austerity measures in the area of family policy, we have increased the amount of child allowances, there is also a higher allowance for the care of the child, a large family allowance and assistance at the birth of the child. These measures have undoubtedly improved the situation of families. We have also increased the state scholarships, respected, which, due to the increase in the censorship of 8 thousand and 500 new students, have also increased the student uranium line. Let me also mention that the government of Marjana Sarca has also accelerated the construction of rental apartments, which began in Ljubljana this week. With new housing units, we want to facilitate access to housing for all those who cannot afford it under market conditions, whether young families or older generations with low or middle incomes. We want to continue with similar measures, and we will continue to do so in the future. Although we welcome the purpose of the proposal and the debate on this novel in the LMŠ Group, unfortunately we cannot support the bill before us today. The proposed novel is, at first glance, very attractive, but it does foresee a mere exemption from staff scholarships and student work from income-generating in the exercise of rights from public funds. This would bring additional complexity to the already complex system, especially in terms of calculating the level of income. However, these revenues are to a certain extent already being treated more favourably, and the proposal did not properly assess the financial implications for the State budget and other public funds. The adoption of this novel would certainly have financial implications. As we say, however, we want and also believe that the competent Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs will take comprehensive measures to improve the situation of young people in this area, in particular with regard to the simplification of social legislation, which is expected to be more user-friendly and understandable to both operators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members! Social Democrats believe that human resources scholarships are a very good opportunity for young people to ensure adequate education and first employment after school. Staff scholarships are also an effective way for businesses to provide the appropriate staff they need, as they contribute to the development of the company through long-term staff planning and thus contribute to the development of the company. Staff scholarships are also a successful measure to reduce long-term unemployment, as they are coordinated between the supply and demand for individual staff in a given region. For this reason, we also support the functioning of public regional co-financing schemes for human resources grants implemented by regional development agencies. In the parliamentary group, we are not entirely dislikable with the proposed solutions, but we doubt that the exemption of staff scholarships would really help make this type of scholarship more interesting to students and students from socially disadvantaged families and that the latter would be decided even more frequently than now. We believe that the main problem in human resources scholarships is that young people are no longer convinced by the promise of employment after school, or by the level of the scholarship itself. Given that young people are the most mobile part of the population and have significantly more job opportunities within the European Union due to the free movement of workers than in the past, they would expect employers to make even more effort to obtain young and prospective staff. Today’s life - style makes it difficult for young people to commit themselves to living in a certain place after school. Many students also want to study or work abroad for at least a few years to gain experience of living in other countries. In addition, young people today are looking for employers who can be given an interesting and creative job, a quality mentor, a good working relationship in the collective, and in particular a suitable pay for a job that is sufficiently competitive for comparable work abroad. The proposer proposes that scholarships and student income to the amount of special relief for this work be excluded from household income, which is taken into account in the exercise of rights from public funds, such as social assistance, children's allowance, a protective allowance or a state scholarship. The applicant considers that this mainly affects the socially weaker families, who are often deprived of a form of social assistance because they are considered to be a staff grant or a student's income in total income, while the applicant does not provide data on how many families are deprived in this way, nor does it provide financial consequences for the adoption of his proposal for a state budget. We will not support the Social Democrats for the proposal, because we believe that a system as complex as the system of social assistance is needed to change its thinking and comprehensiveness. At the same time, we expect the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to present its proposals for amendment as soon as possible, specifying which income and assets are taken into account in the exercise of rights from public funds. These changes have already been announced by the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of Modern Centres. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Social and family measures are of particular importance in our country and thus constitute the foundation of the social state. With the law that we are considering today, Nova Slovenija wants to exempt staff scholarships and student work up to the level of special relief from taking into account income in the exercise of rights from public funds. With the adoption of the amendment to the Income Act, it amounts to EUR 3 000 500. Since the eligibility of social transfers to income includes student work and staff scholarships, according to the applicant, a number of families are injured, as children may lose their housing, school meals and lunch subsidies due to their holiday work, and so on. Unfortunately, however, the proposer does not provide information on how many such families there are in Slovenia. In our view, the assessment of the financial implications of the bill is inadequate, which is attributed precisely to the fact that the applicant does not have information on how many families would be in a better position due to the proposed regulation. It is clear that, due to the proposed amendments, more rights would be allocated or the amount of rights already allocated would be higher, so we cannot simply claim that the bill has no financial implications for the budget. While we understand the intention of the proposer in the SMC, we agree that measures to improve the situation of socially weaker families are important and necessary. These measures also constitute a direct implementation of the constitutional provision that Slovenia is a social state. It is therefore important for us to stress that measures have already been taken in recent years to improve the social situation of families. We are pleased that after six years since 1 January this year all family policy austerity measures have been abolished. Nevertheless, we believe that the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds cannot be amended as quickly as possible, in particular because a well-intentioned change can also affect other rights from public funds. We all know that the Law on the exercise of rights from public resources is complex and therefore such changes need to be made with due consideration and should be based on expert analyses and simulations. In the light of this, we also welcome the fact that the competent ministry is already working to simplify social legislation, which will be more user-friendly and will also result in a more equitable sharing of social transfers. The Ministry of Labour has therefore already announced more extensive changes to social legislation and the possibility of introducing a new way of taking into account incomes, which will also comprehensively examine the impact of income on social transfers. For the sake of the above, the SMC Group considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal that we are considering today is the name of two major solutions that we believe are going in the right direction in Levica. It is proposed that income from student work and staff scholarships should not be considered the income of the student's family when the eligibility for social assistance or other social transfers is determined.In view of the income from the student's work, it is proposed that income should not be counted as a special allowance for the student's work, which was set at EUR 3 000 500 per year this week. €3 000 500 per year means that, in the exercise of annual rights such as kindergarten subsidies or children's allowances, this proposal would constitute a significant improvement for socially weak families. However, in the exercise of monthly rights, such as monetary social assistance or a social allowance, a certain part of the student's income is not taken into account today. The student's earnings up to 201 euros are already being taken into account in the exercise of the family's monthly rights or should not be taken into account. The practice of individual centres for social work to take account of these and other incomes and assets differs greatly, which is a problem for itself. A properly written solution would mean that income, which is not taken into account, would increase by a poor 100 euros, which also means improving for socially weak families. Contrary to the Government, which claims that the family must exhaust all possibilities for survival before it can be justified by the solidarity of the State, we are convinced in Levica that the role of the social state is significantly different. The role of the social state is not to force people into underpaid and exploitative work, but to free them from it and empower them to reject it. The role of the social state is not to force poor households to spend all their savings and sell all their assets before they can even become eligible for aid, but to help them recover from the spiral of poverty. The role of the social state is not to reproduce poverty, but to eradicate it. The country that maintains poverty is not social instead of working for the purpose of its abolition. A country that only sustains the poor in life so that they can work is a state of capital. Social transfers in such a country serve only to reproduce the labour force for capital, serve to subsidise it, not to emancipate people and realize their potentials. Today's proposal for New Slovenia is rapidly approaching. To a certain extent, it would prevent a student’s income, which enables him to study or occasionally, for example, on vacation, from making a profit that enables the student to afford something for himself, to reduce the social benefits of his family, his parents, and his brothers and sisters. The measure would facilitate individuals’ efforts to break out of poverty by preventing to a certain extent what is happening today from being spent on the student’s family’s livelihood. The second proposed solution is similar only to the income generated by staff scholarships. Here, too, in cases of poor households, the student’s income is spent on family survival. The acquisition of a scholarship is not conditioned by the social status of the granter, but it depends on the social status of the student and his family as to how the scholarship will be spent, whether for the students to develop or to confront his family with poverty. The latter is not the purpose of a human resources scholarship. In Levica, we are willing to take part in this change and to participate in the drafting of an appropriate legal record, as we believe that the current record of the articles is somewhat flawed, as the Legislative and Legal Service will certainly also point out. However, this does not constitute any obstacle to not being adequately corrected further. We will therefore support this proposal in Levica and participate in its further consideration. However, I would like to remind the proposer that he does not hold that the proposal will have no financial implications for the state budget, as he wrote in the paper. If part of the income is no longer counted in the determination of eligibility for social transfers, this means that the range of beneficiaries will be slightly extended and that those already eligible will receive slightly more. Contrary to the Christian Democrats, we are aware in Levica that money must be taken somewhere to fight poverty. If I simplify it, I need to take it where it is, and put it where it is not — from the rich to the poor. There is no social policy without it. It is also not without high taxes on the highest income, taxes on capital and property. As long as you propose tax reduction, privatisation, reduction of public spending and continue to sell the country's long-traveled neoliberal mantras and the salvation of the free market, such proposals may otherwise be well-intentioned but inconsistent with your other programme and your tax policies. It should also be stressed that you advocated yesterday that social assistance be reduced for the most vulnerable and that the number of persons eligible for social assistance or social transfers should be reduced. But today you're proposing the opposite. Yesterday you weren't interested in the budget of poor families, today you're building your own argument. That's two-faced, that's groundless. At this point, however, I would like to remind you that by 2012 it has already been considered that the income from student work up to the amount of special relief – that is to say what is proposed today – is not taken into account as income in determining eligibility for social transfers. The fact that the student's income is used to overcome his family's poverty, instead of taking care of it by the social state, is due to the Social Democrats and their anti-social reform in 2010. By the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Social Security Benefits Act, which entered into force in 2012, Pahor’s Government then abolished state pensions, which were then granted to some 16 thousand women without their own age or farmer’s pension, at the same time changed the security allowance from pension and disability insurance to social benefits and began to take strict account of the property prices. The result of these two measures is that 50,000 people, the majority of the elderly and women, have been deprived of any social assistance. Also, the new social legislation has introduced stricter conditions for receiving social assistance, introduced a fictitious account of the income that was eliminated only this year, and introduced a total of 13 new incomes, including revenue from student work. The negative consequences of this anti-social and anti-working legislation will be addressed for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek will present the position of the Ambassador of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u16	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with co-worker, honourable Members and Members, I congratulate all of you and all of you on today's State Day of Sovereignty. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposals made by this amendment to the law on the exercise of rights from public funds. The two main solutions are the exclusion of staff scholarships and the income for the temporary or occasional work of students and students from family income in the exercise of rights from public funds. The student and student work is excluded up to the amount of a special personal allowance for this work in accordance with the law governing income, which is according to the new EUR 3 000 500. As a result, the situation of families, students and students doing such work, especially those with multiple children, will improve. In Novi Slovenije, we wanted to respond to the calls of a number of families who warned that their children were being punished for their holiday work. As a result of additional earnings, it often happens that the family falls into a higher income class in the exercise of rights from public resources such as children's allowances, kindergarten payments and state scholarships. This is extremely unfair and, above all, gives a completely wrong message to young people that work is not worth it. But this is the kind of approach we're doing ourselves a bear service. In Novi Slovenija we argue the opposite: work has to be paid. Those who work, especially those who thus provide additional resources for study or housing during the study period, must remain more: work must be paid. For a similar reason, we also propose the exemption of human resources scholarships. We believe that this measure will increase the motivation for young talent from socially disadvantaged weak families to obtain a staff scholarship. The current regulation discourages many young people from receiving their scholarships, since their receiving on the part of the grantor can mean that their family will lose or that their social and family recipients will significantly reduce. In recent years, resources for human resources scholarships have remained unused. However, efforts should also be made to extend staff scholarships through a system of tax reliefs for human resources scholarships that could replace current co-financing. The current demographic picture and the need for skilled labour, which dictates economic development and the future of work, require us to think about removing obstacles that make it difficult for young people to decide on the work they want or work for which there are real long-term needs. The fiscal and social policy must follow these trends. That the proposal is going in the right direction is also demonstrated by the public support of the Student Organisation of Slovenia and the Club of Slovenian Entrepreneurs, who welcome and support the proposal. As I said at the outset, the New Slovenia Group will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The purpose of the bill before us is that the staff scholarships and the income from the temporary or occasional work of students and students are not included in the family's income in the exercise of social rights from public funds. These are amounts up to the amount of a special personal relief. As a result, the social situation of families whose students or students are doing such work would improve. The proposed amendment is also supported by the opinion of the Slovenian Entrepreneurs' Club, which says that the motivation of young talent from socially weaker families for the grant of a staff scholarship would increase after the adoption of the novel. The current regime discourages many young people from receiving their scholarships because their acceptance on the part of the grantor can mean that their family will lose or that their social benefits will be significantly reduced. The Slovenian Business Club invites us to think about removing obstacles that make it difficult for young people to accept scholarships and work in Slovenia. I also agree with this call. For young people increasingly choose to work and live abroad. After all, research suggests that the so-called brain drain is not yet a major problem, but it seems that knowledge and expertise are not enough to appreciate. Young people often also perform jobs for which they are too qualified, causing dissatisfaction and finding appropriate challenges abroad. Although the rate of brain drain is not critical, the intellectual potential should be better taken into account. More investment should be made in new knowledge, education and technology and favourable conditions should be created for young professionals. They represent the potential that can lead our country to a breakthrough. The Ministry of Labour is aware of and preparing an appropriate reform for which the provision of social transfers will be simpler, more transparent and more equitable. The Ministry also points out that the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia would be very difficult to implement because of the lack of data on tax reliefs. The reliefs should be calculated on their own. In the SAB Group, we estimate that the proposed solution is, at first glance, good, but does not contribute to unity and transparency and thus to the effectiveness of already fragmented and insufficiently consistent social legislation. In addition, the financial implications of the proposed solutions are quite high, so in the SAB Group we believe that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Although the budget proposal for the next two years does not have sufficient resources for all the solutions and reforms that the Government would like to implement in this area, the economic growth that we have recorded in Slovenia since 2014 should nevertheless give us greater optimism. We have a record budget in the history of the country, so we rightly expect the Government to find and implement solutions faster. It would be time for the systemic solutions that we often refer to to to be seen as the light of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respectable from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Staff scholarships and so-called student work are expected to be exempted from income in the exercise of public funds rights following the current proposal for special income relief. First of all, in the Desus Group, we recognize that the legislation on the basis of which social transfers are calculated and allocated is extremely complex and difficult. The city also seems to be incomprehensible and may therefore give a legitimate impression of injustice. The fundamental feature of social protection rights is that these rights are not uniquely self-evident and that individuals and families must do their best to survive through their own incomes arising from work. It is therefore essential in the current regime that all income and revenue, net available income, other than those allocated for the specific purpose and for the coverage of specific needs, are taken into account in the case of the application of transfers. For example, this is a supplement for help and service. As a result, staff scholarships and occasional or temporary work of students and students are also counted in the income of the family when individual or more rights are exercised from public funds. Taking into account the incomes of either a staff scholarship or a student's work income is different. It depends on whether it is an exercise of an annual right or a monthly right. It also depends on the type of income, it is said whether the income is periodic or occasional. The applicant considers that families whose children receive a scholarship or earn money through student travel are in a worse position than those where children do not work or receive this scholarship. So the legislation in force is unfair. In the Desus Group, we have taken the view that it is not possible to make exceptions and not restrictions on the allocation of social transfers without substantial reasons and without the knowledge of the financial implications for budgetary resources. While we are committed to the fair sharing of transfers in our Group of Members, they should be well thought out and prepared on the basis of thorough and practical tests of the current regime. We do not want partial interventions, as such interventions can cause more injustice or discrimination against any particular group of people. True, we have made an exception in the past. Let me remind you of the withdrawal of property value of up to €120,000 in the enforcement of monetary social assistance and a security allowance. But this was an example that solved the larger problem of the very mass older population, which is plagued by very low pensions. If out of 620,000 pensioners receive a little less than half the pension under the poverty line, this is a much more serious situation than the topic discussed today. We are aware that more extensive interventions are being made to the current regime, which seek greater social correctness and fairness and greater transparency and simplicity of the entire system of transfers. That is how the Minister has heard about the introduction of a universal child allowance some time ago, which means that he would be completely separated from social policy and become part of family policy. I believe that the planned renovation will be a little more extensive, but today is an opportunity for the representatives of the ministry to give us some insight into what future reformed social legislation should look like, and we are also interested in the indicative timetable for when this revision will be on our tables. Our Group of Members cannot support today's content of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, all present at the hall, nice greeting! We have just before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. The proposal for a law drawn up by Nova Slovenije has only one purpose, namely to grant staff and income from the so-called student work, would be exempted from incomes that are taken into account in the exercise of rights from public funds. Well, student work is only up to 3 000 302.70 euros, as is currently a special personal relief for this work. We've been doing a lot of work with this student work lately in the National Assembly. For the last time, an hourly item was raised on the Finance Committee, and now we would like this to not be taken into account. There's something wrong here. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely oppose all social transfers that have an inequity appeal. The good government should first stop all social transfers and then start again. Employees in social centres should work in the field and find out who really needs social assistance. It would be a finding that very few people need social assistance in Slovenia. There are so many of these social rights that no one knows them anymore. Anja Kopač Dark has ruined this social legislation so much that it is completely useless and very harmful to the state budget. New Slovenia is a political party that advocates tax cuts, so their proposal is completely illogical. Less taxes mean less social transfers. I understand you want to help big families. I am also in favour of giving additional funds to Slovenian families with more children. But today, Slovenian families with more children are rare. In the vast majority of cases, it is foreign, but for which we will not spend any extra money. If this proposal were accepted, the student could work and parents would also receive certain transfers. It's a double benefit. Obviously, the applicant considers that the worker is not receiving social transfers now or at least not enough. But the one who works gets them. In any case, the situation is very, very strange. I don't know what to say. We will not support this bill in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Before I give my word to the proposer, I would first say who are the debaters who are still on the list: Jožef Horvat, followed by Jernej Vrtovec, Janja Slug, Jani Ivanuša, Edvard Paulič. Ms Dimic asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although 4 hours and 15 minutes have been announced for this point, I estimate that there will be some 10 debates today, and I wonder whether the topic of injustice can be again or whether it is so socially subtle that a simple person prefers to remain silent rather than say anything at all. But first, let me thank you all for your views. I can say that I have understood them in a positive light that the Members of New Slovenia are opening up the right theme, opening up topics that actually concern each individual and also those of the weakest, or those that have come about because of any personal circumstances, due to such a way of calculating under the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Resources, practically somewhere at the bottom and simply because of the education that work is a value, have consequences that cannot be ignored in the system and cannot be addressed in this way. That is why we have also decided in Novi Slovenija to table a proposal to amend the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, which would exclude the calculation of income from the work of students and students and the human resources scholarship. There was a talk that everyone understood what it was like for young people to have problems with housing and other things in addition to everything else. But first let me tell you how it is. It is true that in this mandate, the mandate of the government of Marjan Šarc has been abolished in the field of social legislation. However, look, if it were political will, all these measures would have been abolished in 2014. As the Public Finance Balance Act, all of these laws, which you mentioned earlier, have been abolished, including the child care allowance, predicted that they would be eliminated as soon as the economic growth will be 2.5% of GDP. And that was there around 2014, 2015. The government, all governments so far, including the government of Alenka Bratušek and the government of Mira Cerar, held these matters as a permanent measure virtually until last year or until this year. Therefore, to say that we are all talking about family policy – see, in New Slovenia we do not know how many times we have introduced laws concerning the child care allowance to eliminate financial social assistance. We have pointed out the unconstitutionality of this protective supplement as calculated. That there were seals on certain matters. Those older Members who have been here for several mandates, you know how many letters of certain older people we've been getting, where they've been writing about what happened to them. All of a sudden, they had a filling on their farm on their apartment for a protective supplement and were mass giving up on it. But look, today we're talking about student work being included in income calculations. I have always before my eyes a lady who has come to the office of the Member is separated, receiving or not receiving maintenance – even if she receives a month, this allowance is low – her son has completed a sufficient number of years for the student work and went to work during the holidays. They live in a non-profit apartment, and he has a daughter who is still in primary school. What happened to them? But this is just one case, I have a lot of cases here, and I'll read some later. It happened to her that it was simply because of one month’s student work that she received a higher rent in a social apartment in the calculation of a non-profit rent. The son has earned, I think, 800 euros, which has raised this rent by almost 100 euros a month. She lost a fully subsidized lunch and, of course, lunch. And she said: “When I draw the line, I’m worse off because my son went to work for 700 euros in the annual budget for a thousand 500 euros. In this case, it seems to me that we cannot talk about a social policy, a social state. It is true that this lady lives in a social apartment, but social housing is not free. And what's the biggest and worst nonsense is how much – I've already told the secretary of state – about 3 cents. She went to the social work center, tried to do something for those three cents, but nothing could be moved. It is said that we have some rigidity, as you yourself have said in your views, over-complicated legislation in this area. Today it was said that Nova Slovenija did not provide data on how many such families there are. Look, I can simply say back that apparently this information doesn't even have the Ministry. I have older data from 2016, but I expected the Ministry to give fresh data, and I didn't get them here today. On Monday, my colleague Tadeja Šuštar asked the Minister a question on the same subject and the Minister did not reply to the number of such families in Slovenia. Then who knows if not the Ministry, how many such families are there? However, it is any such matter, the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds, through the Ministry or through social work centres. Don't tell me we have bad digitalization and bad connections in the 21st century. Because then I will start talking about smart Slovenia and digitisation, which is still needed in the country and at the Ministry and at the centres for social work. I expect the Ministry to respond, however, to tell how many such families there are in Slovenia. Because otherwise, the next time I answer, I'll give you some old information. But I didn't want to operate on old data. All I know is that, unfortunately, in Slovenia, if I go back to the data I have, I think it's still the freshest, because you know, you all got that the Student Organisation of Slovenia supports our proposal for a law and there they wrote that there are about a thousand scholarships in Slovenia. You don't think there's anything seriously wrong with the system. Why are there so few? If the system were more oriented to exempt staff scholarships from family income accounts, this number would probably be higher. And we all want more human resources scholarships. I remember when we founded or legally accepted deficit scholarships. How proud we were to be able to recognize the deficit professions and legitimize the deficit scholarships. What's with these deficit scholarships now? That's when we bragged. Here, when we have the opportunity, this goes from the state budget, but when we have the opportunity to help students also through human resources scholarships, we are simply rigid, we cannot move forward, but to speed up the flow of young people, transfer of knowledge, gain experience. And last of all, I am stressing on all this – social virtues. Young people who are told by their parents, "Listen, if he goes to work, that means that maybe within two months you'll earn a thousand euros or a thousand 200, that means we'll be at the scholarship." And they say, "No, no, you go home this summer." On the computer, with a full refrigerator, right?Oh, my God! It's not real education, it's education that's work of value. This is not the right way, for then, on the other hand, we are solving all the distresses of young people in this country. I wish we could still have the unity to let go of the marriage in the first reading. Of course, as a colleague from the Left said, it can be fixed, amended, agreed, and also the validity of the law can be postponed. This would, however, give us one message that we care that Slovenia remains a social state. So much for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor forward, Mr Secretary of State, whenever you wish to apply for intervention, you will be given the floor. Here you are, of course, Secretary of State, Mag. Urban Kryscar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you so much for the words and for the constructive debate of everyone. Maybe I'll just shed some light on some facts for a better understanding for further debate. It could start with the complexity of the legislation or the direction some of the previous debaters have gone. Here I would like to point out that the Ministry has been working intensively since autumn 2018 to simplify legislation on public funds rights. The first step was taken and we believe that the results are quite successful. This year, for the first time since the introduction of the 2012 legislation, we have managed to resolve applications for the extension of the annual rights from August, within 60 days. Today we are somewhere on 98% of the stakes, which I think we can boast. That was the first step. The second step was what we have already heard today, that we are preparing an integrated review and an integrated analysis of the legislative change ahead, reviewing the revenues and assets that are being taken into account and looking at what will need to be changed in the future. Here is also the topic that we are discussing today, human resources scholarships and revenue from student and student work. Maybe at this point I'll mention three things that are in the review and that are in the analysis and will probably be used. In terms of revenue, the possibility of introducing a new way of accounting for revenue will be explored, taking into account the more realistic material situation of the party, most of which we know in the previous or previous year, but would take into account the income received in the last 12 months prior to the month of the party's application. At the same time, certain categories of self-employed persons are considered to identify income from activities, no more than at profit levels, but to take into account the insurance basis from which contributions are paid. However, if we touch on the rights of public funds where the property is taken into account, it is currently in line with the legislation in force to take account of the annual rights of public funds in such a way that the value of the property is reduced by 48 thousand basic amounts of the minimum income and the balance is taken into account by increasing the income of the persons by a fictitiously defined amount, namely the amount of the annual interest. I'm not going into details, but what does that mean in practice? If a family is without income and has an amount of EUR 800,000, then as income, when all is calculated, the average monthly income per person is divided by 12 and 4 and we come to the point that this is EUR 65, which we also believe is necessary to purify. We have heard about the financial implications today. We believe that the financial consequences would also be present. Perhaps even an answer to the honourable Members. We regret that we have not previously connected in the preparation of the marriage so that we can come together to the numbers for which we are asking today. We are doing analyses of what such a change would bring, but they are quite complex. So I hope we can work this out together in the future. However, just as the Minister could not give them on Monday, so could I at this time, but it will also be one of the key points in the plan we are drawing up, to know what the financial consequences are and what good it will do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Let me tell the following three, four debaters: Joseph Horvath, Tadeja Šuštar, Janja Slug and Joseph Lenart. Comrade Horvath, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable Secretary of State with a co-worker, dear colleagues and colleagues! Maybe one technical warning first. The National Assembly portal at EPI 0771/VIII, which lists this amendment of the law, states: “Other documents. Comments on the proposal for a law." It should say: “Support to the bill.” If it can be fixed. There is also another support, I think it is already in the house, by the Student Organisation of Slovenia. So we have two support and no comments. Please, if this can be fixed. Instead of the introduction, ladies and gentlemen, there was also something about taxes that we are not consistent in New Slovenia – Christian Democrats, because we are talking about tax cuts and, on the other hand, we are advocating higher financial social assistance. We are absolutely trying to cut taxes. If our salaries are less burdened by Slovenian employees than they are, because they are burdened on record, the net will be higher. So we're looking for higher net wages. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats are striving for higher net wages, i.e. for lower tax burdens. And why are we saying this? Based on the data. A comparative analysis of the Information Centre for European Policy was published days ago and Slovenia is the most productive in the tax summit. I hope that in government it is someone who studies or says: “Mah, let us leave this Europe, we go the Balkans or whatever.” But we are in a global competitive world where some legalities apply and are devoted to entrepreneurship and also to education special attention. In Slovenia, the most productive tax system encourages the abandonment of work in exchange for a week or to move to countries where their hard-earned work will be less burdened. That's a fact. When I read this analysis and comments, the high threshold tax rates we have in Slovenia reduce the profitability of education and entrepreneurship. This means that our system, tax and other bureaucraticly, for example, communicates: not to be educated because the return on education is declining, and not to be taken into account because the system reduces profitability on entrepreneurship. At the same time, the system is such that it somehow stimulates tax evasion or tax evasion and so on. But anyway, the topic that we are opening today with our proposal for a law concerns the competitive environment, the business environment that we have in this country. I said that we are at the top of taxation of the most productive or domestically those drivers or towing horses that carry on Slovenian entrepreneurship. Thank God! This government can be happy that we still have a fairly decent economic growth. I have asked the previous government practically the whole mandate: list the measures you have taken and have acted as an increase in economic growth. I never got an answer. But today, ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to be critical, once again, we are a global village, but I hope that someone sees in this government, that in the time of this government, or I can say that this government has succeeded or has happened – to use a more diplomatic language – that it has halved the dynamics of economic growth since the moment of the show. Yeah, that's right. During the time of this government, economic growth has halved. And now more of a social policy. This law is an outstanding topic in the field of social policy. We in New Slovenia claim that social policy must be one of the most powerful security networks, very densely complex and of the best materials. Why? In order to catch a man catching a citizen who is a citizen when it falls because of such or other tragedy, fates that happen to an individual, family and so on. When it falls because of the disease, this strong safety net must be established. When it falls because he and she, husband and wife are on the road, anyway, because the company went bankrupt, then there must be this social network, this security network, which captures at least for some time this man, who falls due to the bankruptcy of the company where he was employed. At least for a while he has to hold it tight until he finds another job. That's how we picture it. But there can't be a social policy like a bus you jump on at any time without a ticket and drive as long as time allows. The best social policy, I have listened to this again and again two days ago, even in Germany, in Berlin, the best social policy is one that helps create new jobs that helps a person to apply, if you want, all his intellectual potentials, entrepreneurial potentials, manual skills or whatever. For everyone is the happiest if he can work, if he can create, and if he can get an adequate payment, or a quality human standard. And we need to break up with some accounting approaches once in a while. When I listen, "yeah, you know, this is going to be the kind of thing in the budget, and that's the way it's going to go. What are you going to make up for this with?« Please, not like this! This is what accountants can do, but we are politicians who direct all policies in this country. At least that's how it's supposed to be. But I have to say, and now that's not the topic, I've been extremely worried lately about what's actually going on with us, when, because that's amazing, I'm sorry for being carried away, someone who's been declared manager of the year a month ago has now been hit. The state is probably because he is an important co-owner in this company. When the youngest member of the National Assembly, colleague Tadeja, asked the Minister on Monday about her position on our proposal for a law, I must say that I highly appreciate this minister, and it is a pity that she is not here, that she has started to make some moves because we have actually made this social policy a complete failure in the last few years. Totally. Therefore, it was not possible to make an IT calculation so that each beneficiary could see what was actually his or hers, what he was entitled to from public funds. The system is so complicated that even the best computers obviously couldn't do it. Yeah, that's how it is. But the minister said in response to her fellow Member's question: "At this point, I can say that the proposal for amendments to the law, which will lead to a more fair sharing of social transfers, will be presented by the Ministry in the first half of 2020. In this change we will also try to take into account your proposal." Now we hear the Ministry is preparing this law. I would really like to ask, Mr Secretary of State, to gather us here and to present to those who accompany us at least the basic concept. Today, as you have been invited by Mr Vice-President, you have this opportunity. Let's see where we're going. However, if you reject this law today because it is not a good candidate, and at the bottom of your soul you agree that these solutions are good, only the proposer bothers you because it does not belong to your flower, as it is called. I guess I have this right as a member of the National Assembly, so I would ask the Secretary of State to tell us which way this change of social legislation will go. I will not read what my colleague Starović said in part in the position of Alenka Bratušek. He visited all members of the Slovenian business group, unless you closed the door to them, where he spoke, inter alia, of the importance of human resources scholarships or better human resources policy. We walk around the field a lot, we stop mainly with entrepreneurs, family companies and so on. We are always thrilled to return to Ljubljana when we find out what our people can do to make business partners with multinationals, for example, with Us, and they tell us exactly what the best human resources policy is because we ask if they get enough quality staff from college. They do not respond directly to this, but they say that the best person they raise is the person who grows up with the company during the course of the study, raises the company's membership and rewards it in such a way as to enable the student to work during the holidays through the student work system and to receive a staff scholarship. If you're going against our law because you're going to throw it away, at least some of the parliamentary groups have made it clear, you're not saying that to the human resources scholarships, and you're not saying that to the student work. We have said that the limit will be removed, but not more than the highest general benefit under the Income Act, which will be EUR 3 000 500 from 1 January. It is amazing that now, in some other way, a family that has a student, and this one is probably good enough to get a staff scholarship, and now you are punishing this family and saying, "Hop, look at the break, this one got a staff scholarship, and here the country has to take a little bit or less." I will be pleased if Mr State Secretary says that in the government law that is being drafted, that is, in the law on the exercise of rights from public funds, this solution will be integrated. I think that this is really the right approach if we want to do more in the area of maintaining good staff in Slovenia, in the Slovenian economy. However, if it continues to be punishable by profitability on the grounds that the return on education will be punished, that the return on entrepreneurship will be penalised, then we, colleagues and colleagues, are poorly written. It is perfectly normal for me to support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration. If there was at least a little political will coming from the bottom of my heart to the finger you're voting with, then, I believe, this marriage would go to another reading. And then we put all the data from the ministry on the table, invite everyone who's being tanned by this content, and let's see, maybe we'll find out there that this solution is really bad. We're sure she's good, so we did our best, hired our resources. And as we say, here I thank you for supporting the Slovenian business club, despite Slovenian entrepreneurs, an economic interest association, and we thank the Student Organisation of Slovenia. These are two very different organisations. But if we don't listen to it, on the one hand, to the students, you all say, on the young world stands, we're a society of knowledge, and if you don't listen to the economists, then I don't know who you're listening to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Before I put my word forward, I would just like to say, Mr Horvath, that this proposal, or comment to correct the statement of the act, is taken into account in the file belonging to your law. The next one has the word of Tadej Shuštar, and then Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u30	Vice President, thank you for your word. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we propose that student work and scholarships be exempted from the common income of households in the exercise of rights from public funds. The student and student work is useful for several reasons. The first and main reason is that students mainly earn money for their studies, rent and other needs during summer holidays. They often help their families when they are in financial distress. In addition, they gain significant experience through their student work, which is almost always required for employment. They learn to deal with money, responsibilities, and relationships with fellow workers. In addition, the money they have earned, the money they have invested in their time and energy, is more carefully spent and appreciated. They're proud of their earnings. However, students are often in the dilemma of whether they are paid to work during the summer and during the academic year, as they would deprive their family of their earnings because they can use additional money to exceed their income limits in the exercise of rights from public funds. Thus, students and students may lose their state scholarship and their families may lose subsidies for renting apartments, subsidies for school meals and lunches, their children's allowances and other rights would be reduced. That is why it seems necessary for us to exempt student and student work from the total income of the household. Let young people who want to work work and at the same time do not deprive their families. Some parents, in particular in a number of families, do not want their children to do student work, as this makes the family budget much lower due to the reduction of children’s allowances and other subsidies. In Slovenia, there is a shortage of labour; there are few students who do casual work. Why not, with the support of this bill, show that we are on the side of families, students, students and that we encourage them in their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Janja Služa has the word, and he will receive the word of Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you. What I can begin with is the purpose of this law, which we now have on the table by the New Slovenia proposalr. I don't think there's any special dilemma here. We can certainly all agree on this objective. It is right and right that people are rewarded for their work, that work is what counts, not only that every work counts, but that every work then, because of this work, does not cause the one who does it or his family to become a worse situation. I must correct you here, Comrade Horvat, because every time we talk about a proposal by the opposition, you state that the coalition will be against because the proposaler is not real. That's not true. Those are your words. As I said, the goal you're pursuing here is probably a common goal, but not a common one. And that's why I can't support it, not because you're the proponents. Now I'm going to explain why. In fact, we have the entire previous mandate, which I have been a member of the Labour Committee, and I am also in this mandate, we have found that the system of social transfers is complex, that no one really understands that neither we nor the employees of social work centres understand it. Like you said, my friend, it's so complicated that, in fact, information solutions can't be found for certain things. Why did such a system come about in my own confidence? This was because of this, as we have been following in the previous mandate, because legislative solutions were taken for and for individual cases. When you look at the whole system through a case and you say that because this happened and this, you have to fix it there, you get to that hat, that goat snake that we have today. And what we have today seems very similar to what we have. I am convinced that there are many injustices and many anomalies in the system. One of these is that a student with a student's job can cause the family not to receive as many social transfers as it would otherwise. But it's just one of the anomalies. What I am firmly convinced of is that, given the fact that the other Secretary of State has already told the Committee several times that there was no analytical service at this Ministry to my amazement so far. And we can talk about that when, as a colleague, she said she didn't get the data. Of course they are not, and it is inconceivable to me that there are no such analytical services in such a ministry, where data are those that must be the basis for all decisions. In fact, we need to look at the whole system, and for all the incomes that a family receives, to assess whether they have an appropriate impact on the whole, on these thresholds, on all the social transfers that a particular family receives. So not just for a staff scholarship, not just for college work, but for everyone. And how any such income affects the increase or reduction in the social transfers of this family. This is what I expect, and I am also today expressing to the Secretary of State that I expect this whole analysis to be done and that the most just solutions are found for this whole; if we talk about having more than 30 social transfers, I can only think of how one can influence one another. What I have always said is that the system of social transfers is so complex that you can never change just one variable within this system without affecting everyone else at the same time. But there is something else to be said. Even today, student work is not fully taken into account. We have to be so correct here and let me tell you about the case. In the exercise of rights from public funds, for example, if a student earns an average of 300 euros per month over the last three months, it is said that 300, 300 and 300, taking into account for the calculation of the social transfers belonging to the family, only the difference between 200 euros and what was more, i.e. between 200 and 300. This calculation already includes only this difference of EUR 100. We need to be correct enough to say what it is like to say today, not to say that it is already fully considered today, because it is not. What worries me, too, is this information we obtained from social work centres. Even though this proposal of the New Slovenia today would confirm, in substance, that this solution should somehow be allowed forward, it would certainly be necessary to find further solutions to how this will be implemented in practice. Furs says that the current tax relief data does not refer to the centre for social work and that even staff scholarships are subject to the rule that the employer for the REK form should the scholarship be lower than the minimum wage; however, if it is higher than the minimum wage, the employer of REK gives the form to Furs only for the difference. This means that if this is how you want to resolve the matter, as you suggest here, it is likely to be necessary to establish first the legal basis for these data to be transmitted, and then also to implement how this will be transmitted, who is responsible for the transmission of these data, who will then forward them from Fursa to the Centre for Social Work and so on. If I make the case now. This is certainly a legitimate objective that I support and agree with. However, I would like to avoid new anomalies on the basis of the fact that we will be taking some solutions for individual things again, so I really expect that this proposal, which the Ministry has already announced in the first half of next year, will solve this mess. He solved this mess not just for college work and not just for human resources scholarships, but for the whole. In order for the anomalies to go away, those matters that are being taken into account will be more justly taken into account, that there will be fewer differences between individuals and that the whole will begin to function more transparently more easily and more justly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Ms. Iva Dimic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to my colleague Janji Slug. I can tell you that many times we both have this social sense that we know what's right. But it is true that we are in different political parties and we see different paths. I would like to help as soon as possible, and the coalition says they will draw up systemic solutions and things will be resolved systematically, because we are otherwise regulating each individual. Indeed, the problem of regulating each individual is really great in Slovenia. Why? Former Minister Anja Kopač Dark has processed an extraordinary number of such and similar laws that actually saved individual groups. And every time you reach into this group, you undermine some proportion and you can cause even greater injustices. I personally felt that the injustices caused by the student work were also caused by a large number of families. We leave families here with lots of kids. I think, and also according to our data, and according to the data of the Institute for Social Protection, there are families such as this legislation to take into account student work into account in the calculation of income, especially of single mothers with one or two children. The Secretary of State said they would be prepared at the Ministry in the first half of next year. We, I think a bad year ago, tabled a proposal for a household allowance law. You all agreed that this should be arranged for women over 65 years of age who have pensions of less than 500 euros to receive an allowance of between €80 and €100 per month. You've all agreed, even though you've been a bad man to me, because I've proposed this law that why we come with social laws like this, that this will be systematically regulated. It's been one year, and it's not. Now you said that the law that would rule out the calculation of the staff scholarship and student work would be in the first half of the year. Who else can believe it if this is the way things are going? I believe that you have committed yourself, but look, today there is a law before us, which, if it goes through the first reading, and it can be fixed, it can be amended and taken so long as it can be examined as to how many of these needs or what financial effects there are. But one fact is that, which we cannot ignore, student work in Slovenia is falling, student work in Slovenia is becoming uninteresting. It's also partly possible because there are smaller generations than I said. But believe me, to influence the way the family will live, every parent will look at it before the holidays, what it means to him if he goes to work with his child. And then we have kids at home, we have them in different camps, and I don't know where else they're going, just so we don't go to work so we don't deserve anything. And they say employers say a lot of kids come and ask if they can work without a student travel license. That's what we do. For eight years, I've been listening to the Social Democrats, the fight against black work. And he's just trying to force people into it. I just wanted to read one more letter from my mother who's been following us. Before that, I'd just like to say a few more things about human resources scholarships. See, human resources scholarships are actually scholarships that allow staff to stay in Slovenia. Good, highly educated, technical, professional staff. Why? Since anyone who decides to accept a staff grant also undertakes to work for that company for a certain period of time. I can tell if a student of engineering has made up his mind, mag. Engineering for a staff scholarship means that he will operate in one company for at least five years. This means that we have a young, educated, knowledgeful, full desire for some success and proof, we keep it for at least five years in Slovenia with human resources scholarships. Of course, if the family is socially weak, they will see how and whether they will receive these human resources scholarships if they do not want to go abroad. Now I would really like to read it because the lady wrote it down, thank you for reading it. Just to explain that I am not just talking about large families here, but I am talking about the case of a single mother: “I welcome you first. I wanted to write a lot. Now that I'm listening to this debate in the National Assembly, I've lost my mind. I'm a single mother. The daughter is a 23-year-old student and is in the 2nd year of master's degree, with an average of 9.8. All the time the study works only during the holidays – from June to the end of September, as a student. Our income per month is about 500 euros. I'm now at the age of three and fifty recipients of social assistance. I won't explain everything because I don't want to take your time. In short, the daughter lives in Ljubljana in a dormitory, costing between 140 and 150 euros a month. He has been doing holiday work in Ljubljana in the warehouse – I will not tell which company – for 3 years. The Centre for Social Work, as they say, has taken away €190 from my social assistance from us on an occasional basis. With the money she earned, she bought books, scripts, scissors, that she had to eat or live in Ljubljana. Because of our inability to pay the rent, we were also insolvent. When I pay for everything, we have about 200 euros left for our lives. I don’t know who they’re making fun of, ” said someone, “but I won’t say to the camera — “it’s just disgusting and insulting. [[…]] [[…]] Excluding society because you just don't have it. Wherever I called, there was an answer, so it's in the computer, in the system. This is the first time we've picked a supplement for a very good success. Thank you for reading. With respect, all is well." Let's think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Replica, Janja Servant. [[advertising from the hall]] You have a replica of Janjo the Servant? Here you go, Joseph Horvath. Then it's Janja the Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Janja Servant, super, a multitude of Members and Members, who are pursuing the same goal, is expanding, and that is good. The very first reading of the law is intended for us to identify the goal. We're not voting on Tuesday about the law. Maybe he's too unfinished. That's why we need another reading. Here are your concerns on the spot. Unfortunately, we will not have some data – what now? Should we wait for the Ministry to set up an analytical service to produce some analysis? We'd like them, but it just doesn't. So in the second reading, there's a way to this end. So we're together. The goal is common; we are now quite something, but if we make an effort in the second reading, we will be searching the way for this goal to be achieved. I also take this opportunity, Mr Vice-President, thank you, but in particular, thank you to the services of the National Assembly, that the portal of the National Assembly, as far as our law is concerned, is as it should be. We support the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds of the Club of Slovenian Entrepreneurs and the opinion of the ŠOS, i.e. the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which is essentially support. Thank you for your services, thank you, Mrs. Jerneja Bergoch.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you, too. The replica has a Janja Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u38	I just want to add something so we don't get things wrong. Even coalition Members are very reluctant to hear these words: “There is a need to find a systemic solution” so that there will be no mistake – just as you do. But if anywhere, then this area is where we've certainly learned in the past, but here the systemic solutions are the real ones, because that's exactly what led us to this. I'm sorry, Comrade Horvath, but I know that in every law you file and we have it in the first reading, you say at least twice or three times that it's an opportunity to confirm it, and then we fix it further. But it doesn't work, because you know that, don't you? If we are to accept a more comprehensive solution, we should have a substantial number of open articles so that we can then correct them further. It's just these articles that you've opened, and it's not working. So this claim to let us go through, and then we're going to fix it, unfortunately this time it's going down. As for the household allowance mentioned by the applicant. I am very sorry, but it was very clear in the debate that you were wrong about the calculations and that with that household allowance, as you suggested at the time, the pensioners would be worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Joseph Lenart has the word, and he'll get the word "magic" behind him. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Immediately we get information through our portals, our computers and I am going in a good way to do something right for our students and for our students, I will say, for our children or not for ours, but for children of all citizens and citizens of Slovenia who are studying and who want to work and who are actually decent, who are well-educated. The Alter.si forum says: “We are a family of four, parents and two children, parents are with a minimum. I work through the student service, programmed." It has similar earnings, as previously said by a colleague from SMC, which makes 300 euros every month and from this title every year already a pretty good amount in the account. Then he asks his friends — someone here in this forum — whether my brother, who is now starting high school, will receive a state scholarship given that I have some resources in my account. Everyone immediately does the domestic word "revolt" – delete everything immediately, remove all the money from the account, because if it's not too late, then okay, if not, it won't get it, surely not. And then this brother won't get a scholarship, that's the fact. So this marriage is not fair. As Members of Parliament, of course, we must watch what is right, what is lawful, but given what he then says on the next portal called Over.net. People know it's wrong – even here, most of us, more than half of us know it's wrong. She asks a couple: “We each have thousands of wages, and the daughter goes to college. Can he get a state scholarship?" They don't know how to help each other, because it's clear. They will spend about 500 euros per month on this child and about 5,000 per year. Every euro comes in handy and now they ask again and people answer that it is unlikely that it will work. I can say this firsthand because I had this case at home: as long as we had up to a thousand euros per person, until then the children of the state grant received it. After we were a little bit nicer, all of us with our students, and then they didn't get it anymore. From this title it is true that we must be just and try. Now those slightly more viewed parents know that children should not have money in the account. Now this is some kind of smuggling because you're good, but everyone advises and also the social work center, if a friend works there, he'll say when you invest that you won't have money in your account if you have it. Also the Employment Service, the Labour Office knows exactly where the hackers are, but sometimes they can't say that. Then, if you know any bankers – definitely the same story: lift them all down before you invest. Now we are actually teaching our good people in some way to look for loopholes in marriage, so that these benefits do not actually go down. And now, if we say, "What is this young man who has already earned in his student years the first 3 grand a year?" Yes, this young man, people, colleagues and colleagues, will be on his own right away — after two months of graduation he will be working! Is this not the goal of the country for our youth to get a job as soon as possible? And then, let's say, if the father orders his daughter 200 euros in Ljubljana, because he's from Styria, he's going to charge rent because the landlord is pushing, and then it's visible in the transaction account, then the social work center can automatically throw it in or ask you where that money was from. If you write: a loan, it counts, but if you write that you gave your child 200 euros, it counts. That is why I say once again that our good children, our working students, do not think about it and then are very disappointed when the family loses social transfers. But I'll tell you how it goes with our arrivals, including the recent ones, and I believe we don't have to close our eyes, so I'll tell the story. The arrivals come and ask at the Employment Office at the Labour Office: “Where can I apply among the search engines?” And then he goes — but this is what he asks in a foreign language. Then he comes out of the Employment Office building, quickly stops by information and asks where the social work centre is to apply for a social transfer. Believe me, his parents taught him well that he should have absolutely nothing in his account. What's right now? Where do we have this social sense? I believe that this time more than half of the people in here who are well aware of this but may not be able to confirm it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. There's been a slight change, first he'll get the word Secretary of State mags. Urban Kryscar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying this, maybe because a few things have come together. In particular, we have heard a lot of talk about the complexity of legislation, which I do not think is even more controversial or has never been. I may have explained earlier how we had to take the first steps and arrange with CSD in order to simplify legislation and take into account the various revenues and also assets. I also hate to talk about specific cases, because, however, when you are writing legislation, you must always have a shaking hand and not on the basis of an individual case, as we have heard today in the debate. Nevertheless, Mrs Dimic mentioned these 800 euros earlier, I did not respond immediately, because we did the calculation again, and at the end of the day, after the calculation of the revenues of 65.58 euros when the monetary social assistance is calculated, and in this particular case, the social subsidy of the rent, I apologize, which is true, that the lady has probably fallen for some euro across the border. But I'm also talking about that maybe every case isn't to be calculated, because if the euro border was lower or the euro was higher, someone else could fall out. However, I regret, of course, the case of the lady. Perhaps only as a solution if she again applied for two months or three later, she was likely again under censorship or below the limit and this matter could be settled. Mr. Horvath. Before that, I mentioned three cases that we're going to take into account. It is probably not necessary to repeat the possibility of a way for the last 12 months to determine in self-employed persons that we will see income not more than profit, but in the light of the insurance base taken into account. Then I gave an example of 800,000 income-free assets, how little this brings to the settlement of rights today. Perhaps it is just that we consider some privileges to be relatively well taken into account today in the field of monthly rights as far as student work is concerned. The number that I pointed out earlier when it comes from €800 to €65 is partly taken into account. However, we will, of course, when we analyse the drafting and simplification of legislation, take into account or have in the review your proposal for a law if it is not adopted today or next time. Perhaps even with regard to the student's mother mentioned, we can discuss later if there is any other possibility of counseling this lady if it is not possible to exercise all rights. With regard to fear, when you say that the Ministry or Government will not prepare a new proposal for the law, it may be that we are committed to doing so because we have to start with the issue of informational calculations. 1. 2022 and the simplification and information procedures, which have already been exposed, are a key condition that we can be with 1. 1. 2022 of these things have also been implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Matthew Tonin, get Mrs. Violeta Tomic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u44	Good day, Messengers and Messengers! The law prepared by Nova Slovenija is, in my opinion, simple and relatively fast. But when I listen to this debate today, it seems to me that it's complicated where there's nothing to complicate. Well, let me get started. Each of us who is a little present in the office or a cup of tea in the inn village will most likely hear two things that have become almost already wintered, and that is that in Slovenia they are decently punished and that is not worth doing. Currently, the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds speaks precisely about this; the case of student and student work shows that they are fines and that it is better if you do not work. In my opinion, this is a completely wrong message given by the State to its citizens. That is also why we proposed to amend this law in Novi Slovenija. I felt like we were not talking about the same things, so I'm going to point out again what we're talking about. When a student or a student works occasionally and earns something, after the current legislation, that income is considered to be a common family income. However, the total family income is very important when calculating the amount of child allowances and scholarships, as well as kindergarten payments. If a student or a student is decent, working hard all summer during vacations to earn something for himself and his family, this is considered to be the family’s total income, and that is why he and his parents are then punished by having his parents receive a lower child’s allowance or receive a lower scholarship or that his parents have to pay for his brother, who is still in kindergarten, a higher price. This simply does not seem fair to us in Novi Slovenija, so we have proposed a simple solution that income from student and student work should not be taken into account in the calculation of these rights. Very simple. I, too, did not understand where this would now be a difficult problem in implementing this legislation. Those of us who may be slightly younger parents invest in these things and get from the social work centre these calculations to enforce rights from public funds – I don't know where the problem is. If you have a fictitious income there in those documents, how much you are supposed to earn, because you own a farm land, or because you own a car, or some other thing, it can be fictitiously charged to you without a problem. But the fact that the student income, the student income from this list to calculate, is a terrible complication, where I don't know what complications we've all had. I simply cannot agree to this interpretation that this is difficult to implement. If this income can simply be calculated inside for calculation, then they can simply deduct it so that this calculation is not available. Anyone wishing to reward decent and working people in this country should support the New Slovenia proposal. Very simple. It was one part that talked about student work and student work. But then we're in this law that we wrote, and we're proposing a piece that talks about human resources scholarships. I think that the other parliamentary groups have also been visited by representatives of the SBC, and it is interesting that at these meetings, the majority of the groups of Members have been very fond of these changes. Then a person wonders what happens when this change comes into the marriage on the parliamentary bench, and all of a sudden, this support comes together. What happens in this in between? The representatives of the economy warned us that unfortunately the Slovenian school system is not the best, because when young people finish their schooling, companies should only start training them seriously so that they can do some work or manage a job. Here, they donate, the human resources scholarships are crucial, because these young people have some way of bringing them into this work at the time of their studies, and that, once they have completed their studies, they have an immediately-prepared citizen who can start working in some job immediately and thus have an employee already provided. What's the problem? Companies point out that young people are defending their human resources scholarships. It's amazing to me, I couldn't believe my ears that young people were defending their human resources scholarships. Who doesn't want some extra resources and profits? Again, the problem is that these human resources scholarships are not very high again, but they are taken into account in the total income of the family, and because they are taken into account in the total income of the family, this family is again deprived of children's allowances, scholarships, kindergarten payments. It's logical for families to do a calculation of where they get more; or through this human resources scholarship or through other rights they have. This is one completely pointless, unnecessary bureaucratic obstacle that needs to be removed immediately. With regard to the complexity of performance, I think that this will be easy to implement so that the social work centres can do this without any major difficulties, but these revenues of the staff scholarships and the student and student work will not be taken into account in the calculations for the exercise of rights from public funds. It's a simple story here. At the same time, the entire Parliament, by adopting this law of ours, would make it clear that work in Slovenia is paying off and that we will not punish the next. This is a basic message. As far as this systemicity is concerned, this time we've been singing. I admit that I am really tired of this system of things, because whenever, by the opposition, some such, healthy, reasonable proposal comes from the demands of citizens, concrete stories from life, in short, a very lifelike thing. When a common sense comes into Parliament, it is usually that the coalition opposes and says, no, no, no, it is not all completed as necessary, we will resolve it in the system law. It's a bluff. Since this law has more treatments and if everything is not as processed and refined as it should be, you have the opportunity to complete the matter as you would like — not least, you have the majority. With regard to system laws, however, they have already been promised this time, and I do not think that the vast majority has ever reached that promised time limit. And if the Ministry prepares its own system solution – great! This will then overtake our solution; this solution will be adopted for the period to a systemic solution. What's the problem? He's not here. Understand me, of course I will support this law, but it would also be a good message to take into account the common sense of agriculture if the whole Parliament supported this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Violeta Tomić, and Mr Alexander Reberšek is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u46	Thank you, Madam President. Once again, once again, the representative of the proposer outlined what they are proposing, let me stress that we in Levica have said at the beginning of our position that we will support the proposal. Although it has a lot of holes and is quite inconsistent, we are prepared to participate in correcting this proposal, which is going in the right direction, because we do not trust the coalition to take care of the social state, despite boasting about the rise in wages and certain social transfers that we had to force in Levica. In short, student work and scholarships must be excluded from the family income calculation and we fully agree with that. Let me stress that this was already in force by 2012 and that the student work income up to the level of the special relief was not considered income in determining eligibility for social transfers. It's the same thing that's being proposed today. It is unacceptable that the student's incomes are used to overcoming his family's poverty, and just recently we discussed raising the hourly rate for student work and also here we have heard quite strange arguments about how students live luxuriously, what cars they drive and what ratings they have. It seems unacceptable to me that anything like this is mentioned in a country where almost 300,000 people live below the poverty line and that many students actually have to work to be able to study. But it is unacceptable that they have to work to support their family. This is, of course, totally unacceptable for one country which is considered social. For this matter to change, it is the credit of the Social Democrats and their anti-social reform in 2010, when the Pahor government also abolished state pensions. At the time, there were 16 thousand women without their own, old or rural pensions, and the result of these two measures was that as many as 50,000 people, especially older women, were left without any social assistance or transfers. And anyway, it always surprises me when I look at these popularity lists, when Borut Pahor is always, so to speak, in the first place of the popular scales. I do not know whether this is due to certain masochism in humans or to non-information, since until Pahor’s reform of 2012 we had the unconditional right to a protective allowance or to a state pension, only the amount of the pension was checked. Since then, however, the number of elderly people receiving any assistance from the State has decreased dramatically, as people were afraid that their descendants would have to return this money, so that their children would be marked on the property and that their children, grandchildren, who, in so doing, would have little chance of getting some regular employment and credit, would have to give up their apartment and home. But what bothers me? I'm kind of disturbed by the schizophrenic attitude of the proposer towards social policy. Yesterday, you were just advocating a reduction in social assistance by 10,000 recipients, while at the same time supporting the law supplemented by an SDS measure to reduce social assistance by half to those who will not join the public works programme. That's what I see when I say it in a farmer's language, it's like tearing shit in a barn and carrying it into an apartment in baskets. As many as 24 thousand individuals, including more than 10,000 children, have been suspended. You have supported this, despite the fact that as many as 45 thousand children live below the risk of poverty. It is sad that more than 10,000 recipients of this supplement are poor employees. They're working! Nearly 6,000 poor employees, mostly recipients of the supplement, are sadly serving with poorly paid work. And 205 euros were taken from these workers, with whom they barely connected to the beginning and the end of the month. This abolition will save the shameful EUR 16 000. And the vast majority of this saved amount will be on the shoulders of poor employees. So in the same session, you will also confirm in the same vote the tax legislation, which is best paid in the country – not in the middle, but to the most paid – adds as much as 2 000 euros a year and more. My colleague Horvat always points out that we have taxed the most productive. You've done this five times. These are the most productive, real economy in our country, produced 4.2 billion net profits last year. And I'm interested in the most productive horses that drag forward – who? 4K, which bought Adrio Airways for 100,000 euros and then exhausted it, that our pilots were completely exhausted? Who? A magnet who forgives workers when they go to the hospital and pays them poorly? A ride? Who are these drag horses? Here I'm going to warn you of complete deception. Sometimes I feel that the Chamber of Commerce has its own exhibit here in the New Slovenia Party. Because if we look at the OECD data and the data they hold, it is that in Slovenia workers and consumers are much less burdened and employers and capital. If we look at the data of the European Commission, the burden of income and contributions to the social register is deep below the European average in Slovenia. However, employers are the ones who have to take care of the social register, because the increase in net wages at the expense of lowering taxes is unacceptable. Because then where are we going to take the action you're proposing? I am pleased that New Slovenia has finally proposed a social policy measure, but it does not go along with these measures that you are defending. Of course, now that you say you're a customer in the middle, it's probably this step towards the middle, but it's clear that the country is operating on taxes. This is clear to everyone here and that we will not impose taxes on employees and their salaries, which are already so low and so low, but on employers. If 4.2 billion net profits at the annual level are turned into private pockets, on the other hand, we have this, clearly, not even a curve, but the level at which we are, here is this difference that we can get for every citizen of Slovenia to live in dignity. Above all, I'm talking about poor employees, and it's unacceptable that students have to feed their parents, that they have to work to study, because we said, it's their job to study. The social state, however, is the one who has to ensure that subsidised kindergartens, subsidised diets, child supplements are available to those who have either lost their jobs or, unfortunately, — and this is the saddest — who work full-time and are so underpaid that they cannot spend the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you so much for your support, colleague Violet. You are always talking about the four billion profits created by the Slovenian economy. Thank God. That's A. But you never tell B. How much, colleague Violet, did the Slovenian economy invest in the same year? The answer is about 8 billion; it is said to be twice as many. Why did it invest? Yes for new jobs, including for more added value to the employee, or for increased productivity, where we are very poor – 19 percentage points below the average of the European Union. Why? Because we are mainly, because you know the ugly Slovenian term, the lon arbitrators. And here's the problem! As far as 4K Invest is concerned, ask Mr Jazbec and that coalition that you are now or are still supporting, which unfortunately Adrio sold by paying the buyer. We know that. And we are always advocating a model of the economy that is tested in Europe – the social market model of the economy. Once you present your model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Reberšek has the following word and Mrs Mateja Udovč is the last to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. I would also like to see this model and expect it, but I hope you will present it to us. But I always ask myself, under laws like these today, why is there always a beating in this country for those who work. Explain that to me. Why are we beating up people who work for us? Why are families being punished who are also beaten because of the vacation work of their children? Why do we not encourage young people to join the labour market? Why do we tell young people in this country: It is not worth it? This man with a healthy farmer's mind can't be easily understood. We give them some wrong signal, a wrong idea about life, because some parents defend their children from doing vacation work so that they don’t get hit with other benefits. Students and students work hard at school, work hard for their success, for their results, finally get a scholarship after that, and that they can afford a normal life in this country, they are also forced to do a student job. This gives them some experience that counts most in life, but it is obviously also a burden to them. You know, money doesn't grow in a tree, a young man with first earnings just confirms himself, learns a lot, learns experience, learns how to handle money, learn how to earn it, then spend it responsiblely, and that's some of the best travels we can give a young man in life. People should be given the opportunity to earn something by work, not to be taken by the country. That's why we're here today to decide. It grieves me, however, when I listened to many Members to oppose this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much. As the last in this round, Mrs Matey Udovč. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by saying that today's debate is important, but above all it seems useful to me. Regardless of the outcome of the vote, I got the feeling that the debate had reached its goal, because I got the feeling that the Ministry of Field had accepted the proposal from the proposer. If I only repeat: New Slovenia proposes to exempt the temporary and occasional work of students and students from the exercise of rights in the exercise of public funds, up to the amount of special relief provided for in the Income Act. The proposal seeks to facilitate the situation of socially weak families. However, the Income Act explicitly provides that the income for the temporary and occasional work carried out through the fees is taxable. It also exempts staff scholarships from the income category of non-taxable students. In doing so, we must find that the rights of public funds depend on the material situation of the person. In the exercise of rights from public funds, account must be taken of all income and benefits other than those allocated for a specific purpose or intended to meet specific needs. The law on the exercise of rights from public funds sets out a uniform concept of identification for all rights and is currently also applicable to staff scholarships and incomes for student and student work intended for survival. Under the first paragraph of Article 4 of this Law, a right from public funds shall be granted where the income of a person does not exceed the income limit set by the law for an individual right from public funds. However, other conditions laid down in the rules on individual rights must also be met. When determining the material situation of the family, the applicant shall also take into account the obligation to live in accordance with family law. Parents have the responsibility to support their children, and the country comes only when their parents have done all they can, but they have not been able to fulfill their responsibilities. Although the New Slovenia proposal seems very correct to me, I do lack specific information to present or justify an improvement in the financial situation for individuals and their families by replacing this proposal. In fact, I am interested in data on the extent to which individuals and their families would have achieved this measure and the extent to which their material situation would have improved and the extent to which they have been deprived of various subsidies so far. As we have already heard today, I also expect from the Ministry that we will receive this data, and I am pleased that we will. Despite the legal framework in force in this area and the limited possibilities for the implementation of the New Slovenia proposal, I think we should look at the matter only from the human side. Consideration should be given to the possibility of introducing a new way of taking into account incomes; the impact of incomes on social transfers should be considered in full also with regard to the student and student incomes proposed by Nova Slovenija. We need to provide a system that will justly allocate social transfers to all beneficiaries, especially to the socially weak families and their members. Otherwise, in the context of the tax package, we supported the amendment of New Slovenia at the meeting of the Finance Committee, which also binds the amount of special personal relief for students to the amount of personal relief, which will amount to EUR 3 000 500 according to the new proposal. Nor are these debates overlooking a number of social measures that have been taken since 2014 to improve the social situation of families. I think it's good to know them, so now I don't intend to list them specifically. I would only mention the last two from this year. After six years, all family austerity measures have been abolished, with 100 per cent of the individual’s average salary in the last 12 months being remunerated, and the allowance for large families is once again universal and can be received by all large families, regardless of the income situation; the maternity allowance is unlimited and the parental allowance is 2.5 times the average wage. By a decision on harmonised amounts of transfers, which are set in nominal amounts and as a percentage of the harmonisation of other transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. As of 1 July 2019, child allowances, state scholarships and child care allowances, large family allowances, child support and parental allowance have been increased. Currently, students and students from families with incomes below 668.53 euros net per family member are eligible for the state grant and could also list. I therefore think that in this area too, the Ministry of Field Affairs is working very hard to regulate matters fairly. But everything can't be done overnight. We must ensure that one measure in the network of social measures does not overwhelm others or that we do not cause inequalities between beneficiaries or even damage. Dear Mr Joseph Horvat, I was touched when you told me that Members are only acting on the basis of a proposal. That's not true. I never make my own decisions on the basis of a proposal, but I advocate an integrated regulation of the area and not a partial arrangement. Nor is it true that I agree with the proposal only at the bottom of my soul, but I agree with it because it is going in the right direction. But as we've already heard from you today, it's a complex system, so it's all the more important to get rid of it completely and to prepare it for the department. As I have already said, the New Slovenia proposal is going in the right direction, but it needs to be addressed in a broader context, with more concrete calculations and data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the ministry and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor first to the Secretary of State. Here, if you want a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. I think most things have already been said. As we promised at the Ministry, because we are also committed to the current law, we will prepare solutions and hope that with your help in such a way that all rights acquired by the beneficiaries will be fair, fair and that the system will also be much more transparent than we have heard today, because it allows some potential users or users of certain rights not to know or, as has been said, may also try to abuse at an early stage. Thanks again for the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Now she gets the word Mrs. Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I listened attentively to today’s debate, including the secretary of state and all of you — but, you know what? I try to live by some principles, by some values, and that the system forces people to try to bypass it somehow seems extremely inappropriate to me. What do I mean? The Secretary of State also said that if this mother, who had come to the office, had submitted a request for a state grant or anything after three months when it was no longer known that her child had been working or that the other rights arising from the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Resources would have been obtained. Look, some people don't have time to think about how and what and when to invest. But in all these years, what we're here, we're talking about a simplified investment; once you get to the social work center, you put in all the rights, and they figure out what it is. So you really have to be very smart in this country to get what you might have to because of an anomaly like a student's job, it's out of the question. It has been said that Christian Democrats are not social enough. I really don't know how each individual thinks of himself socially. But I'm still sure he's holding on to the fact that people need to learn how to fish, not give them fish. Because we're simply human beings who need to be in the drive to walk, to develop, to think. All modern science and research is based on what it means to be too much behind a computer, how mentally, physically, mentally, spiritually failing. And to say that we support certain laws, which is not true at all, seems extremely inappropriate and incriminating to me. There was neither vote, nor anything, but to say, “what you support.” I can say, let's see from the magnetograms that I was the first in the National Assembly to warn poor employees! That is why we were responsible, and we were looking for a solution to help them! And we have proposed a series of measures already in the government of Mira Cerar and even now. But we always run into it, "we're going to solve it systemically". I don't know how we're going to solve the system for back because the injustices for back are done and retroactivity for those rights and injustices that have been committed is not. I agree that New Slovenia supports the amendment because people need to be animated to find work. It is also necessary to encourage young people to come to the labour market in some way, to see how they seem to make decisions that are easier in life. If they are able to carry out various professions through the student work, their careers will be able to go differently than if, after finishing high school or after school, he comes to one job and will find that this job is not suitable for him. It is therefore necessary to understand why human resources scholarships are good. That they have the power to know what will happen to them in life! Because, once again, the solution for young people to stay at home, sit behind computers and actually fail, it seems to me that it is unfair for the future of society. Then we talk about what demographics we have, what about the elderly, what about social situations. My colleague from the Left, many times we agree in many ways, we have very similar views as regards the environment, as regards agriculture, as regards nutrition, as regards protection, health, life. We're on the same page. But one difference is, you had the opportunity to go to the government and take over the Ministry of Labour and settle all these irregularities. I believe that the difficulty of taking responsibility is difficult, perhaps even politically risky, but that it is trying to demonstrate with individual manoeuvres how social, not when you have the opportunity to take on a role, that we may not be able to agree here. And it's true, there's been a lot of mistakes. Comrade Horvat has already answered clearly, indeed, Adria Airways, Magna; but look, there are some coalitions and some Members and some heads of government for which NSI has never pressed "for". And she never gave them a vote. However, development must go on and I think our proposal for a law on the exercise of rights from public funds is one step further. Whether we have time to wait another six months or we don't have time, or whether we can make this marriage if we go through it in the first reading today, and we're being amended and fixed I have to admit that I want it the most. [[…]] That the Members of the Coalition who have the Minister of Labour speak to me at a meeting where we tried, with the question of the Member, to get information on what the actual situation is and ask me again, however, how many of these people, who happen to them in some way, have some injustice on the basis of the student work and the human resources scholarship I have calculated that I will get it. [[…]] However, I said that I have one piece of information, or from 2015/2016, when we discussed the withdrawal of the child allowance from the calculation of scholarships. Then one third of the child’s allowance was left for the calculation of scholarships — that is, how many scholarships or how many children did not receive a scholarship because they had a younger brother and sister and were given child support. These were 700 in Slovenia. And I have this information, and it's verifiable. That's why I expected you to have some data at the Ministry then in advance, that you have a spectrum of data that can actually look at what it is. And I find that's not what I'm afraid. I just hope there won't be another 70 million spent on such studies. Because it would actually be a big laugh and making a fool out of those people, like I read, because a girl works in a warehouse, they end up in a position. But this has been done in the past, and what have we got from the 70, 74 million? Nothing! One study is probably, in my opinion, one room of folders that are not actually usable. That's why I want you at the Ministry not to go this way right now to order some expensive study, because with those 70 million you might be able to help some other students and students and those who are socially weak for 10 years. I wish, once again, that support – or on Tuesday we will vote that the law is suitable for further consideration – would be welcome, desirable. In particular, I would like to see it in the light of the fact that, as Members and members of the Labour Committee, we, too, could develop a clearer social policy, not least a family policy which, last but not least, could be included in some systemic solutions. I really want your support and understanding that the law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate remains, I ask you whether you wish to discuss the matter further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. As I see it to be an interest, I will initiate the application, but I warn that a representative of the applicant and a representative of the Government may also apply. Now I'm opening the application. We have 4 reported debaters, the first gets the word Mrs Violeta Tomić, and Mr Boštjan Koražija is being prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u58	We have said in Levica that we will support, yet we have heard a number of ghastly ones on the one hand when we warned them that tax cuts and the social state do not go together. My colleague Smokey and I have often agreed, we share many values. We agree several times on what needs to be done, but how we are not completely on the same line. The opportunity to join the government, you told me that we had it in Levica – you were the first to have the opportunity to join the government. Marjan Šarec spoke to you most luxuriously, and then we were an emergency exit. Now, the problem with capitalism is, people need to learn to fish, but the problem with capitalism is that big fish eat all the food, and those little fish eat all the food, and they eat more and less. [[…]] I was asked, I mean, you've been hitting on poor employees, and today you're wondering why those who work are always being punished. [[…]] You know, here I wonder why those who work are always punished. You asked what kind of economic model you'd offer me in Levica. Each of our draft laws, each of our discussions tells you that we are absolutely for an honest working model, because of course we should stop outsourcing, poor employees, cleaners, nurses should be paid solidly in the country, regular and safe jobs for our young people and so on. Of course, the economy is investing, but on the one hand you save 16 million on poor employees, and 50 million will increase subsidies for private companies. And yes, they're investing, the country is helping them hard with half a billion subsidies a year. Why? So they don't pay the employees the way they have to. This is where we put the problem, just here. We're not against employers, but let them pay the people who work fair. And finally, I may be very angry with you now, but the vast majority of citizens are completely upset that the Ljubljana archdiocese will receive 22 million compensation for non-use by the Agricultural Land Fund, which is so and so exhausted, for properties sold in 1858, 150 years ago. And here our cash register is failing, and here we are, citizens in an unfair position against one who gets the money. Here I'm wondering if they'll give anything to 700 million, bell 1 and bell 2 that have sunk the economy. You know, the thing is very complex and we could set it very wide. Our economic model is a fair payment for fair work, regular employment and the future for our youth, but not to go elsewhere, and not to sell banks that are systemic, so that these young people can get credit on the basis of regular employment and get their own place. Now for another minute for your friend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you very much. In this part of the debate, each of the panellists shall have five minutes, so that Mr Boštjan Koražija will have his five minutes, and Mrs Mojca Žnidarič will be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u60	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Yesterday, your colleague from your NSI Group, Mr Reberšek, tried to convince us that it is necessary to teach a person how to catch fish and that this is the only way we can help him. And I'm going to continue with this metaphor. People who want a bigger supplement to work, too, all already know how to fish. These are the people who work, but the ones they work for give them so few fish they can't survive with. The task of the National Assembly is not to teach people how to fish. Our task is to regulate the system in a way that, in accordance with the Constitution, will be a truly social state where an individual who does not have one is helped. What helps a hungry person, warm up and eat, but if we do not give him a blanket, not a safe shelter, not bread, but even less fish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is given to Mrs Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I'll be brief myself. In fact, I've already presented my position on this point, and I've listened to all the debaters. Personally I would say that the proposal is essentially appropriate, it is also logical, but as we have stressed, that it should be resolved, in relation to all the other incomes that families receive, and in relation to all the social transfers that we have heard in all these days, that it is 34, so, too partial. The proposing lady herself said that in the previous term she had worked in such a way that everyone had proposed something and then something had been taken into account. I'm afraid that's the way it is now. Each customer comes every month with a proposal to include a target group in a system that the target group has exempted from a social transfer and thus creates a system of social transfers that is actually so complex and so opaque. Let's leave time to the Ministry. They themselves announced that they would arrange this in the first half of 2020 in order to prepare a simpler review of these rights. We would all like an informative calculation, as mentioned by Mr Horvath. I also have to say that now that these scholarships have been regulated, I have called the social work centre, asked my colleague there whether it makes any sense that I am applying for a scholarship or not. No one can tell you; neither my employees at the social work center can tell you whether you're entitled to something or not, this system is so demanding. So, as we say, let's leave these few months for the ministry to really prepare this whole thing. In the meantime, I might be able to respond to a few other things. Mr. Lenart mentioned this money in the accounts. People who panic to raise their parents, and in fact, no one says that only interest is taken into account. It may be someone who falls out because of the euro or two, because then he comes into another class, but it doesn't make sense to me. This is too much to stress that children's money is taken into account in these social calculations, because it really takes into account solely the interest and not the whole money. As we may have heard from one of the previous committees, the Secretary of State said that they had found someone who had now connected these accounts abroad, in an account of 500 000 euros. Out of this, 2 000 euros were taken into account in incomes, so to speak, only interest, and this man still received child support. I don't know, I think people here are even too scared. Finally, I would say that, in fact, in the final part, you have already started to discuss everything, and the proponent is essentially deceiving again with these studies. I thought that last week we made it clear that these studies were not first spent, it was intended, and it was also not only for studies and analyses, but also for the construction of this deinstitutionalisation, including these living centres, then smaller housing units and all that. [[…]] It really does not seem to me that it makes sense for us to be remixing all the topics that we have been dealing with for the past 14 days — just these social issues. As has been said many times, if the ministry hadn't been sitting here on boards or in our halls all day, I think that would have solved the matter as well. I really want to save her in this way, to be more transparent, transparent and fairer to people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much. And as a last resort, she gets the word of a representative of the proposer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, colleague. True, the ministry is often and very present in the National Assembly, but it is usually four, and that is the whole apparatus – they are not preparing the calculations, but they have their employees, who are informing them, who are preparing the requirements, so I think they are working smoothly right now; at least I would expect it to work. You said I said before that everyone put something in social law. Maybe I wasn't controlling enough, so I'll tell you. It is, but not every one, who is able; and we know this, under the ministry of the Dark Digger – whether it was her or was the Left, because they were competing with each other. I have to point out here, one of those laws was that I now thought of, a debt write-off. Debt write-off, the law that was passed. First, he was proposed by the Left, then taken over by the Social Democrats, and in fact, he did not have any effect. Nothing, because he was so complicated that those who were poor were unable to help and still had to pay their bills for the heat, the electricity, and so on. Besides, my colleague is no longer here. She always, when she can, tells me about the Archdiocese of Ljubljana or the Church, how much property they have, including on other committees. See if anyone gets the money wrong, they can't get it. I'm the one who's defending it. The money obtained by injustice must not go to anyone and no one shall receive it if it is unjustly wrong if the bush is in the back. But if it is a matter that stands in the court, and stands for me, it stands for you, for you, for him, and for them. But once again, if this money was wrong, we shouldn't have gotten it. And to say where they're going to put it, it seems to me that this tendency has been in the past. I always say, to whom I give my money, I don't tell anyone if I give it to some charity. I think everyone has a chance, and I wish I could have my money. However, I would like this money to be spent on those who already care a lot in Ljubljana, for the homeless, for their warm meals, for their accommodations. I believe, even though everyone here wants to show how social it is, we know that Karitas and the other organisations have a strongly dispersed social sense and network, so I'm not afraid that it will happen to those who need help, because it seems that the law will not be adopted, as you said. It is said that the student's work will not be excluded from the fact that the staff scholarships will not be exempted, it is said that there are still people who need help and will have to look for it. I believe they'll get it at other doors, not the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 29 October, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on latent and invalidity insurance. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the 43 Members and Members of Parliament, with their first signed Branet Golubovic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Tiln Bozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u66	Dear President, honourable Members! Further thanks for these signatures and for the possibility of a general discussion, because this is a very important topic. So, I am very pleased that today you have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Retirement and Disability Insurance. The main changes can be covered by two objectives. The first objective of the amendments is to ensure a decent pension. We are therefore talking about a more appropriate income for a safe age. In this regard, we have also paid particular attention to increasing the social security of the most vulnerable groups within the pension system, including recipients of the lowest age, disability and family pensions, as well as benefits from disability insurance. The second objective is to extend the work activity that we want to achieve with incentives for staying in employment. Among other things, by ensuring that a higher part of the pension is received simultaneously and that the work of the pensioners is carried out. Let me briefly point out what these fundamental changes are. As regards the dose percentages, it is envisaged that in six years, as a transitional period, men would ensure that the rate of 40 years of retirement rises from 57.25 per cent to 63.5 per cent. This percentage would be the same for both sexes and it would be considered that women would retain this year's 63.5 dose rate even in the future. If they did not make this change, in the coming years, the percentage of women would fall to 60.25 per cent. It is also worth mentioning the increase in the lowest dose rate for 15 years of retirement, which would rise to 29.5 per cent. Further mention should be made of an additional dose percentage of 1.36 per cent for each child. So, we are going to make this change to give a choice that someone can retire a little early or decide to go full 40 years, and that this way is rewarded or rewarded with an additional percentage, which means a long-term improvement in the social situation. Here, of course, we speak, even according to statistics, as this shows, the most at the stroke of an older woman, and we estimate that we will help them a little. Let me also mention the increase in the percentages of the remaining, both in the family and in the widows, as well as in the case of invalidity pensions. Last but not least, I mentioned earlier, so-called, conversational, dual status, where it is assumed that, in the first three years of fulfilling the conditions for retirement, someone who stays in employment could receive a new 40 per cent pension, not more than 20 per cent. In this way we expect more to remain in the working relationship. With a slight change yet; of course, we are not only concerned with staying longer for full-time, even for shorter working hours. Thus, those who continue to work at least half-time will also receive these prizes in a proportionate manner. We have taken a systematic approach to these changes. We first prepared the starting points, this was confirmed by the coalition, then we went to the Economic and Social Council. The Economic and Social Council has dedicated us to a negotiating group in which we have reached the agreement of the social partners in eight rounds. In these times, this, I can say, is a rare and very valuable achievement and a good journey to the proposals you have ahead of you. At this point, I would also like to stress that the social partners were united during the negotiation process, that the next package of pension changes in pension and disability insurance will have to be launched shortly. The Economic and Social Council negotiating group has remained active to this end. Thus, we have not finished our work, we have some work to do and we estimate that once the legislative process of this package has been completed, we can proceed with further changes. Of course, with existing objectives: decent pensions, extension of work activity, and of course with an eye to the fact that the system must be sustainable in the long term. I look forward to your discussions, and I will also be very happy to participate in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First, Mr Nik Prebil gets the word on behalf of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u68	Vice President, thank you very much. Have a nice hello to everyone again today. See what a third of the population in the active population is in Slovenia, if we define them in a group aged between 15 and over, there are pensioners in Slovenia. It's like a third. They are therefore extremely numerous, economically sensitive and important social groups. It is undignified and unacceptable that the problem of pensioners has become the subject of populist politicization and a kind of competition of likeness here, in the National Assembly. The number of pensioners is rising every day and demographic indicators show that this trend will continue in the future. The proportion of older people will almost double over the next 35 years, which will have a number of consequences for increasing needs, spending on pensions, health care, long-term care and others, as well as aging related expenditure. The ageing population will also have a major impact on the Slovenian economy, as the ageing labour force requires many adjustments. As life spans continue, however, thank God, respectable, we remain chili, strong and proportionately healthy, productive after all, this calls for incoming measures and a relatively higher level of work in the elderly. We will be able to achieve this, unfortunately, only through the extension of employment and the postponement of retirement, as well as the general social desigmation of working age. The Scandinavian countries have changed their minds decades ago, as Eurostat figures clearly show. In Slovenia, only 35 per cent of the population is active in the 55 to 64 age group. In Sweden, your honor, this number is 75 percent. The data also show that Scandinavians are on average active for about 7 years longer than Slovenians, which helps to improve the early integration of young people into the labour market. Your Honor, we're gonna have to talk about this. However, if, in the near future, we do not have a major problem with the sustainability of the pension system, our discussions, reflections and views on legislation and measures in the direction of legislation should be focused primarily on the future and not just on some fire action when problems arise. Therefore, it is really high time that where and where it is necessary, we establish or re-establish the foundations for current and future pensioners. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which is before us today, provides some important measures to improve the material situation of pensioners. The main solutions concern, in particular, an increase in the dose percentage and consequently a higher social security provision for beneficiaries of lower old age, disability and family pensions and disability benefits, incentives to stay in insurance, and the provision of co-receipts and work of pensioners. At the same time, the modernisation of the law also includes urgent changes in the field of the implementation of professional insurance and the provisions of the European Directive on the activities and supervision of occupational pension institutions will be transposed into the Slovenian legal order. In practice, a higher pension will be paid to all pensioners under the new legislation. The current international legislation also requires a gradual reduction of the percentage for women, which will be prevented after the implementation of the provisions of the law, which is before us this time, which also means improving the situation of women. The proposal also raises the percentage of the disability pension resulting from injury at work or occupational disease. It also regulates the new minimum rate of invalidity pension for insured persons who have become disabled before the age of 65. All of these changes will take place gradually, over a six-year transitional period, in order to avoid any speculation about retirement time. A very important change, respected by this bill, is a change in the dual status of pensioners. Those who, despite the fulfilment of the age pension conditions, will continue to be in a working relationship, or those who will be reintroduced, will be able to receive an additional 40 per cent of the old pension on the day of their retirement and 20 per cent after that period. For the better, all those who will remain in a working relationship after the conditions for retirement have been met. For the first three years, every half-year of non-total retirement will be valued at 1.5 per cent, representing 3 per cent per year. Finally, there is good news for all those who, I can say, for weeks, and even months sometimes you wait for informational calculations of the amount of your pension and the date of your retirement. After the new, the PPIZ will also allow for an electronic IT calculation, which will undoubtedly speed up the procedures. Last but not least, if we do not follow demographic and economic changes with legislation, population ageing over the years may also have a negative impact on the relationship between individual generations. Social solidarity must be balanced in both directions, so younger generations must be solidarity with the elderly, but at the same time they must also become older solidarity to the younger generation. The measures set out in the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance thus follow the implementation of the commitments under the coalition agreement and the law is also supported by the social partners of the Economic and Social Council. That is why we will also support the marriage in the letter of Marjan Šarc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The next Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, a nice greeting to all seven, eight colleagues and colleagues who are still in the National Assembly! In opening, let me say that the Social Democrats welcome the proposals put forward by the Ministry regarding changes and the addition of the SPIZ. These are urgently needed changes that we consider to be just one step towards longer-term measures that will provide a generation of pensioners with a more age-friendly age than they have today. All the amendments to the PPIZ legislation so far have mainly been intended to ensure the sustainability of the pension fund, but not to address the question of whether pensioners with the benefits they have received can also survive with dignity. The general assessment is that the measures were correct and have to a greater extent stabilised the pension fund. Of course, let me mention that we still spend over a billion euros on pensions from the state budget. However, if we look at these measures on the pension side, we can see that in these years we have created an army of systemic poor people whose pension is not sufficient to cover all the vital costs of living. Another fact to be acknowledged is that Slovenia is ageing. The inhabitants of Slovenia are getting older, and this is not only happening in us, but throughout the world. The average age has risen from 35.9 to 43.4 years in the poor three decades since the time of independence, and life expectancy has also increased by about 8 years. Today's bill brings an equalization of the dose percentage for both men and women to 63.5 per cent for men in a six-year transitional period. This brings higher pensions and higher social security for pensioners, but only for those who will retire after 1. 1. 2020. The novelty in this bill is an additional dose percentage due to care for children of 1.36 per cent, which is primarily determined for persons who took care of a child in the first year of his/her age. Since these are mostly women, this is a measure that will help to ensure the real equality of women, which comes mainly from their greater involvement in child and family care. Special attention is paid, however, to increasing the minimum age of widowhood, disability and family pension and disability benefits, by establishing a new percentage at which the lowest pension is calculated and by increasing the basis for the assessment of the right to widow or family pension and disability benefits. The percentage will increase to 63.5 per cent of the pension base in case of disability due to injury at work or occupational disease and 41 per cent of the pension base in case of injury or illness outside work before completion of 65 years. According to the new employee who has fulfilled the age-retirement requirement and has remained employed, he will receive 40 per cent of the pension and no more than 20 per cent, while receiving will be limited to a maximum of three years and another 20 per cent after the period. However, employers would like to have a choice in their hands, to whom, after the conditions for retirement have been met, to extend the contract and not to whom. Higher hours limits are also foreseen for the occasional and temporary part of pensioners. Of course, many will say that these changes are not enough. They are really too far away from being perfect in this proposal. We're all probably all aware here today that we're going to have to do a lot more. The pensioners' union and the civil initiative for pensioners are committed to improving the situation of pensioners. In their demands, they are proposing a number of measures that would be necessary and fair. It is also necessary to listen to them and to find common solutions. It also seems unfair for Marsikom to obtain the pension period, which is included in the retirement period by purchase and allows early retirement under conditions 60-40 only with small or deductions. We have asked the ministry here on several occasions whether it is thinking about unifying all times, as envisaged in the adopted starting points for the reform of the pension system, with which the social partners also agreed. If we pass this bill through the legal procedure, there will be pensioners who will retire after 1. 1. 2020, get higher pensions. However, pensioners also rightly ask themselves what about those who retired before that date. No matter how long they worked, they would pay equal contributions to the pension box, in a poorer position. Does that seem right or fair to you, fellows and colleagues? However, this proposal, which we have before us today, is coordinated in the Economic and Social Council, has been supported by both trade unions and employers. It is also supported by the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. Therefore, the Social Democrats will support the proposal of this law as suitable for further consideration. However, even if we support this today, we must all be aware that more will have to be done to ensure the long-term sustainability of our pension system. Due to the already mentioned ageing population and the resulting decrease in the working population, the poorer the ratio between payers and pension recipients. It is worrying that, on the assumption of equal migration growth from 2060, less than half of the population of Slovenia will be active. Adjustments to the labour market will therefore be urgently needed. It will be necessary to invest in lifelong learning, adapt jobs to older people, educate them, and enable young people to get jobs first. Making sure that young people are not able to go abroad for a better life, we will also need to ensure the health of all generations, to provide access to health services and also to regulate the long-term care system. The priority must certainly be the long-term sustainability of the pension system. We need a system that is stable and trustworthy so that young people who work at the age of 30 will also believe in it. It is also necessary to develop additional forms of insurance that can compensate for the loss of income after retirement, but not at the expense of the first intergenerational pillar. Finally, dear colleagues and colleagues, let me stress the importance of a respectful attitude and obedience to the older generation. Only through good intergenerational cooperation, respect and understanding of older people and mutual assistance will all in this society be able to live a better life. Last but not least, dear colleagues and colleagues, we'll all be older one day, we'll all be retired one day.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the SMC Group will be presented by Mrs Janja Slug. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u72	Recent major amendments to the pension law were adopted in 2012. After good seven years, it is almost time for bold action. The whole development of the world faces the challenges of the ageing population and, compared to others, Slovenia is in a slightly worse position. We're getting older than we are elsewhere, and we're less active than we are elsewhere. This is especially true of older workers. We lack staff in the labour market to enter and leave early. Our demographic picture is bad, and in all these years we have moved away from providing decent pensions. All these facts point to the need for this time to amend the pension law, which follows two key objectives: to extend and promote work activities and to ensure adequate income for the safe age and to improve the social situation of all pension and disability beneficiaries. The proposed changes were previously coordinated in the context of the social dialogue by the social partners, which is certainly a good way to continue the adoption of legislation in the National Assembly. In the SMC Group, we are pleased with the proposed solutions of Minister Ksenija Klampfer. With a higher dose percentage, higher pensions will be provided to future pensioners. Everyone will have a better material position. The lowest old-age pension for an additional 15 years of insurance will be raised, higher percentages will bring higher age, disability, widow's and family's pensions and benefits from disability insurance. By extending the possibility of co-management of work and of receiving a double pension, we encourage the maintenance of the work activities of older workers, which the labour market still needs. In addition to the more favourable financial incentives for dual status, other measures are also envisaged in order to keep people in insurance as long as possible and thus actively active. An additional retirement period will be more favourable when an individual retains his or her work activity. Individuals who have already retired and will reactivate themselves will be entitled to higher pensions. It will also be more advantageous to evaluate a partial pension or to pay its proportional work in the event of further involvement in compulsory insurance. The occupational insurance system is also improving and most importantly – after the end of the transitional period, pensions for men will be higher by almost 11% and for women by 4.5%. Together, we are ahead of a responsible task, when we have to turn negative population ageing trends into a plus that our society as a whole will not go back but will evolve. Surely some today will consider that the solutions proposed are too ambitious, that the transitional periods of the proposal, that the old injustices are not adequately corrected, that the money for the pensioners is still too small and so on. These issues are, of course, questionable, and it is important for us, above all, that we are aware that there is a consensus of the social partners on all the proposed changes, and in this way also a social consensus that goes beyond the wishes and ambitions of individual political parties. In the coming hours, we will certainly hear a lot of populism, screaming through election pools and checking the loyalty of our electorate. But let us all be so responsible together that today we can tell citizens and citizens, young people, future pensioners and current pensioners that the work is still valuable and that, due to the changes in the pension law that we are considering today, pensions will be higher and more dignified and the pension system will still be solid. In the SMC Group, we will, of course, support the conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Miha Kordiš will present the position of the left-wing group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. The pension system does not provide social security for pensioners and pensioners. That's a fact. More than 58 000 pensioners receive a pension of less than EUR 500. Nearly 160,000 pensioners receive a pension of less than 600 euros. The poverty risk threshold for 2018 was EUR 662. So 160,000 pensioners receive a pension that is 60 euros below the poverty risk threshold. The minimum guaranteed pension at this time is only EUR 530. More than 130 less than the poverty threshold is received by someone who has worked his whole life. The situation is catastrophic because of the discharges that this country has made to capital in the past. I do not know a country in which, as in Slovenia, pension workers would contribute almost twice as much as capital. Until 1996, the worker and capital contributed equally. Since capital is now paying half the price, each year the state must cover more than 600 million large holes in the pension register. This is the fundamental injustice of the Slovenian pension system on the income side and this injustice does not end the government novel. During the crisis between 2010 and 2017, Slovenia either completely abandoned or severely restricted the coordination of pensions due to savings. As a result, the current pensions totalled around €319 million. In the cooperation agreement between Levica and the government coalition, we have stated that the minimum pension for the full pension period will rise above the threshold of the risk of poverty. However, disability pensions, in order to rise to a level that would allow for at least minimum living standards, should introduce the concept of universal retirement, not least gradually increasing employers' contributions, and thus providing adequate funding for higher pensions in a solidarity manner. None of this happened. Ladies and gentlemen, you also did not call on the working group to prepare a proposal for pension legislation with Levica. This task force doesn't exist, it doesn't exist, we don't have a phone ringing, no one invited us. Nevertheless, this moment we have before us a proposal for a new pension law. Let us begin at the beginning, in the relationship between work and capital, how pension systems are placed in this relationship. Like other social state systems, pension systems from a capital perspective are both a risk and an opportunity. Risk because the very existence of these systems means that workers will also require some contribution from capital to the cash register. The opportunity is also due to the accumulation in these systems of the value that capital would, of course, want for itself. For this reason, pension systems are internal contradictory, at the same time representing a place where market relations are suspended or at least regulated by the State in general for the benefit of workers or so-called intergenerational solidarity, so we must assess each pension reform from at least three perspectives. First time. What is the impact of pension reform on the labour market? Does he additionally excite him, create additional misery, and lower his wages? Another time. In what way does it address the uncertainty that has led individuals to be included in the pension scheme? So what pension reform means for long-term ensuring the solidarity of the pension system as a whole. Not last time, third time. How will reform affect the lives of pensioners and pensioners directly? Will she provide them with a decent life, or will she let them live in poverty? This leads us to the current proposal prepared by the supposedly working group, of course without the opposition Left. Let's go in one order. In the proposal for a law, the Government stated that it was pursuing two objectives: to extend its work and to ensure adequate income for the safe age. Ladies and gentlemen, if the extension of your work activity and the safe age are so comparable to that of yours, please honestly say that you understand one another. You interpret safe age as a wage-active age. Age is a wage activity for you, which means that pensioners do not exist effectively at all. For you is an ideal worker who never becomes a pensioner, but his entire life remains a used worker, only legally formal status changes his minority. That is why you preferred to include incentives that reward insurers and pensioners for additional wage work and activity. Why did you do that? You claim that because the social partners said they wanted it that way. Well, what is the real effect of this measure? The labour market will increase competitiveness at the expense of pensioners, which will certainly reduce wages. Translation — this will also reduce the basis for the calculation of the pension. This will be the result of a measure in which 40 per cent of pensions are received by those who persist in their working relationship even after 40 years of work for those next three years. For all the years to come, 20 percent of the pension, as is already in force. This measure tells us all about your reform. It's a direct capital subsidy. It is a measure to bring down the price of labour at the expense of the poverty of the pension fund, is an additional fragmentation of the labour market and consequently additional misery for workers. This is not a measure for workers as a future pensioner; it is even less a measure for the already retired and ensuring their safe age. This is a capital measure and for no one else. Those who have fulfilled the conditions for retirement deserve a decent pension and peace, not that they have to go back to the naked survival or continue to insist on the labour market in order to even cover the beginning of the month with the end of the month. You also suggest that those who continue to work after 40 years of working time for each year increase the dose by three percent by a maximum of three years. Very generous? No, no! In fact, it's a reduction. The current forecast provides for a one-percent increase for every three consecutive months of work, totaling 4 per cent per year. Thus, this measure is also more than a measure for pensioners aimed at the gods of the fiscal rule and the capital that benefits from it. That the objective of the reform is not to change the pension system in a way that ensures decent pensions and a safe age, the most clearly illustrates the part of the law that introduces measures to facilitate the inclusion in the supplementary micro-enterprise pension scheme. You offer benefits for micro-enterprises and open up the market for additional insurance. You propose additional marketing and promotion of additional insurance. What's your message? That the pension system, the approximately solidarity of the pension system as we have it, will not guarantee a safe age and that people are looking for solutions on the supplementary insurance market. This further breaks your confidence in the pension system and the contributions made to it. You're giving up the pension system as a guarantee of a safe age. The truth is that by promoting private pension insurance you are actually reducing social security at an age. Additional market insurance is volatile, depends on fluctuations in capital markets, manages capital and is the worst option for workers. In minutes, insurance can lose ten years' savings. Let us remember what happened during the last crisis, especially in the United States, on the other hand, where entire population groups lost annual savings that they had invested in their own safe age, because the funds they had been allocated to them, pension funds, trapped in speculative transactions on the financial market; they broke the bubble; these pension funds were destroyed; and the crowds were left without pensions and without a safe age to invest in even their working lives. Well, such private funds are a good choice for capital. In the market, we can play freely with foreign money if something goes wrong and, as has already been said, this drink will be settled by insurers with their own means of survival. This measure of yours, privatisation or promotion of private insurance is also a capital measure, not a measure for safe age or pensioners. A rare positive change for pensioners and pensioners that this law tolerates is the halting of the drop in the dose rate and its gradual rise to 63.5%. But you have to be clear here, too. We could have done and we should have done more. In this regard, changes are also problematic, which equalize the percentage for men and women, while introducing an additional dose percentage due to care for a child of 1.36 per cent. Although the government says it understands that women have been exposed to inequalities in the past, it does not really understand that. At least not after this marriage. If we understood, we wouldn't put a cap in three children or 4.08 percent. If you understood that, you wouldn't have brought a woman into her reproductive function, and you'd have to write off a little bit of all the women who don't have a baby. But that's your math. You want to keep your face in front of women who work hard every day at home doing unpaid household chores, but if they really understood their position, they would increase the percentage for women, while maintaining the raise you gave men. But here you prefer to be cost-effective, clever, to go after some hand-to-hand pierre stonts to present yourself in public as something you're not really and try to flush the current pensioners, future pensioners in this country. Below the line: so the reform in this form can be referred to as a reform for the benefit of pensioners and pensioners as a reform for capital and giving gifts to the best paid profiles in this country, which hold up their chairs in the public sector, although they have already met the conditions for retirement – senior bureaucrats, the highest part of the medical profession, that part of the academic Mandarins, the regular professors and so on. By measures taken by the Government rather than the constitutional principle that Slovenia is a social state, it follows the principle of competitiveness and price collapse in the labour market. As if we didn't know that poor employees later became poor pensioners. All of this can be fixed. Instead of unstable private pensions, we can strengthen a solidarity pension system, we can raise the percentages more and more justly and, last but not least, we can raise the minimum guaranteed pension so that pensioners will not live below the poverty risk threshold after 40 years. We will not object to the law of Levi at first reading. In the future, however, we will propose amendments to introduce solutions to strengthen the pension system and improve the social security of pensioners and pensioners, starting with the proposal to raise the pension provided and the percentage of the disability pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Ms Iva Dimic will present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u76	Dear Vice President! Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today we could say that we have been waiting for it; a new mini pension reform prepared by the government of Alenka Bratušek and Mira Cerar since 2012 where Dr Anja Kopač Mark has been ministering at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for six years. Despite the very good economic situation and the fact that the pension reform of ZPIZ-2, which was adopted in 2012, already anticipated the sustainability of the pension allowance only by 2020, there was nothing with the reform and now I can say that we are putting out the fire. The proposal for today's Act amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act contains 139 articles and follows two basic objectives. The first is the extension of work activities and the second provision of adequate income for safe age and the consequent improvement of the social situation of all beneficiaries of pension and disability benefits, and I can say critically that neither the first nor the second objective is being pursued properly. Special attention should be paid to improving the social security of the most vulnerable groups within the pension system, which is absolutely not true, as the law in the form we have before us does not regulate the household allowance, which is the law of Nova Slovenija - Christian Democrats filed less than a year ago and was promised that the matter will be regulated systematically. This would significantly alleviate poverty, which is most common among pensioners living alone as well as with widows. Recognizing the household work that they have done all their lives would also make it possible and easy for them to admit it. This would be a waste of part of the financing of non-governmental organisations whose scope and functioning are unduly extended precisely because the matter is not systematically resolved. The introduction of the household allowance is a systemic solution in the view of New Slovenia. The proposal raises the dose percentage and thus improves the social security of recipients of the lowest age, disability and family pensions and disability benefits. The percentage for old-age pensions is increased for men and women to 63.5, which is good for the proportion of women and men to be equal in the long term, but different measures need to be taken before this – different coordination of pensions according to the year of the pensioner’s entry into the pension system. The proposal of New Slovenia is, of course, to introduce a revised way of coordinating the pensions of existing pensioners. Since 1992, the pension system has undergone many changes, especially with regard to the rate of the replacement rate of the percentage of the pension dose. During this period, the approach has led to a reduction in the amount of the pension and after any amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act on the same nominal pension basis. Such an approach is, of course, one of the key reasons for increasing poverty among pensioners. Among other things, it is proposed to introduce an additional dose percentage for each child born or adopted at 1.36 per cent per child and for a maximum of three children, with the option of choosing this right in relation to the right to reduce the age of children. Option or : but. In Novi Slovenije - Christian Democrats, we believe that a dose percentage for every child born or adopted cannot be a substitute for reaching an old pension. By reaching the age pension conditions, 1.36 per cent should be provided for each child, regardless of their number. A higher percentage of the disability pension dose for disability resulting from injury at work or occupational disease is 41 % of the pension base. The lowest base for the widow and family pension is increasing, 38 % of the pension base following the expiry of the transitional period. In New Slovenia, we reiterate that the rise to 38% of the pension base is still incompatible with the widow's pensions they receive in our neighbouring countries, such as Austria and Germany. With regard to the regulation of the so-called dual status, a compromise agreement has been reached on the solution proposed by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which builds on the existing system of payment of 20% of the pension. The proposal foresees that, within the first three years following the fulfilment of the age pension conditions, an individual shall obtain another 40% of the old-age pension for full-time or full-time insurance, and that part shall be reduced to 20% after three years. The question is, and we ask in Novi Slovenije whether the 40% old pension is financially sustainable after meeting the age pension conditions. However, after both conditions have been met, the age and working hours are said, a 20% old pension is no longer appropriate. In New Slovenia, of course, we also wonder what it is like to clean a pension box where pensions based on paid contributions should be paid. Since the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act brings some positive changes and because we want the Government to speak out on our proposals, we will support the law in the first reading. Of course, the emphasis here is also on the second reading that all rights for all pensioners who were deprived of the ZPIZ-2 who had lower-dose percentages should be considered and corrected. How will this be resolved, even during a transitional period of six years? I think that in the New Slovenia Group we have mentioned many concerns, as I said, we will support the law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Ms Maša Kociper will present the position of the Party's Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u78	Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished representatives of the Ministry! We are extremely glad to have a new law on pension and disability insurance in front of us. For many years we have been strongly committed to regulating the status of current and future pensioners. Not because, as some have seen, they would adopt this group of people; far away from it. But because our analyses, and especially the discussions with many people, especially when we collected signatures throughout Slovenia, have shown that it is a large social community in which a large number of people live on the threshold of poverty. Pensioners pay contributions for pension and disability insurance during their working hours; they pay them so that they can experience normal age and provide material and social security when they meet the conditions for retirement. These rights therefore belong to them by law, of course, provided that they have fulfilled the legal requirements. Pension insurance is therefore one of the most important areas of the social security system in Slovenia, but according to data, as many as 90 thousand pensioners live below the poverty threshold; and that is regrettable indeed. Also due to the efforts of our client, the SAB party, and with the support of other coalition partners, several steps have already been taken in this mandate – the direction of improving the situation of pensioners. Our government has carried out a regular reconciliation of pensions of €135 million by 2.7%, followed by an extraordinary harmonisation of €1.5% in December, or €6.3 million in February 2020, and a re-coordination of €3.5% or €175 million in February 2020. In the SAB, we also actively sought to raise funds for the annual allowance, the so-called regression that was this year – and also next year – will be paid to all pensioners at a higher level than before. There will also be €5 million saved for the elderly in the budget, this is for building a home for the elderly. In addition to all of this, the Minister of Infrastructure, Alenka Bratušek, President of our party, announced, at the beginning of the parliamentary examination of the proposed amendments to the Road Transport Act, that the benefits would also be offered to this social group; so that in the second half of 2020 all pensioners, together with disabled athletes, will receive free cross-border public transport. This proves that in other areas, not only in social areas, we can do a lot of good for this group of people. In 2017 and 2018, we collected signatures to raise the percentage of the pension rate by 5 percentage points in several Slovenian cities. We have also collected signatures to regulate the annual allowance in the system law in the way it was regulated before the crisis. With our signatures, our efforts have confirmed more than 11,000 citizens. Proposals for solutions – higher dose percentage, regulation of the annual allowance than before the crisis and the possibility of additional work, a fair paid part of pensioners – were also recorded in the programme ahead of last year's parliamentary elections. After the elections, we entered the coalition with clear demands that the dose percentage should be raised for those who will retire from January 1st this year and that the same date and in the same manner as before the crisis will be paid the annual leave regress. Unfortunately, we were not successful at this. We have repeatedly stressed — but there will be nothing wrong if ever — if the crisis is over, it must be over for all, including for the pensioners. The solutions are enshrined in the Coalition Treaty in order to realize them and not to keep the dead letters on paper; and we will insist on doing so. The upcoming novel of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which we have been waiting for for so long, is in line with all the social partners. It represents the first legal fruits of our efforts and efforts to improve the status of future pensioners. We welcome the Ministry's intention to follow the proposal. We are also pleased in the SAB Group that the ministry has listened to some of our comments made at the time of the public hearing of the novel and the active work, in the formation of this law. The bill thus provides for an increase in the pension rate to 63.5% for both sexes. This percentage applies to women immediately and for men it provides for a six-year transitional period. This period is, in our view, an absolute proposal and should at least be halved. An additional dose percentage of 1.36% is also foreseen at the expense of caring for each child born or adopted as an alternative to the right to reduce the age due to the care of children. In addition, the law also refers to the so-called dual status of pensioners. We are pleased that the Ministry has followed our proposal and has finally come to terms with this challenge. It is also possible to continue working after the conditions for retirement have been met. With the novel STIZ, it will then be considered that when an individual fulfils the conditions for retirement and at the same time participation in the employment relationship in addition to the salary in the first three years, he will receive another 40% of the old pension. After three years, however, the percentage of the old pension will be lower, which will be 20%. In the SAB, we believe that the Ministry has adequately set the objectives of this provision, but the proposed solution can prove to be inadequate. In the SAB, we have proposed, from the very beginning of the creation of this law, to supplement the provision to the effect that a request can only be made if the insured person terminates the employment relationship before the dual status has been established. We estimate that the future pensioner, who is still a worker at the time of the working relationship, must first end the working relationship so that the credit rating is paid. For only after the termination of the employment relationship does the beneficiary acquire the pensioner's status, and at the time of the conclusion of the new employment contract with the same or other employer may then apply for a 40 % old pension. Such arrangements would address the needs of employers in the public and private sectors, so that those who are no longer needed by employers could not remain employed, and they would also plan human resources in the long term, taking into account the demographic characteristics of employees. In any event, it is reasonable to allow employers to conclude a new contract with individuals who wish to continue working after retirement in accordance with the needs of the working process and the ability of the worker. At the same time, this also responds to the demands of all those craftsmen and others who have most often highlighted the need for dual status. However, if a person does not wish to retire, it is still his right, and he is entitled to an additional 3% per year, much has been said about it; but he does not have the right to an additional 40%. Although we are pleased in the SAB party that the struggle for decent pensions has finally produced some fruits and savings, the issue of the annual allowance is still unresolved; it is not settled in the way we have tried. We want the annual allowance to be paid in the same way as it will be paid, it can also be in different heights and different deadlines, it enters into the law and in this way we stop the political excesses of justice; and we provide all pensioners with a right that can also be exercised. A safeguard provision may also be made to ensure that this supplement is not paid in the event of some very poor economic circumstances, otherwise the supplement should be recorded in the law as necessary. Regardless of all the concerns we still have, we will be happy to support this amendment proposal prepared by the Ministry of Labour in the Alenka Bratušek Party; and we will continue to strive in the next procedure to further improve some of the solutions and to get as optimal a law as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Mr Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! With the latest real reform in 2012, it was announced that the legal solutions would satisfy the financial sustainability of the pension system, taking into account short-term demographic trends by around 2025. The effects of the reform were immediately apparent and still have positive effects in view of the influx of new pensioners, the rise in the actual retirement age and the extension of the supplementary pension age. Nevertheless, we need to keep thinking, as projections of demography are inexcusable. At this point, however, we are faced with a shortage of labour. People live longer, so they should also work longer, meaning that more work should be done or, in other words, pension conditions should be tightened. Comparisons with other countries show that Slovenians retire earlier than in other countries. However, it is necessary to ask under what working conditions it is possible to work longer. Today's pace of life is unforgivable. Employers' expectations are higher, which does not outweigh the fact that work processes and other working conditions are today significantly better than they have been in the past. The time frame for entry into the labour market has increased considerably. The forms of work themselves are still quite permeable, which means that no permanent and adequate social security is guaranteed. The question is, therefore, what would be the appropriate way to extend work activity. We have before us a bill that could be called a mini-reform of the pension system. But this is not a reform in the classical sense that we have been accustomed to in the past, because it does not exacerbate pension conditions. The changes that are ahead of us are, in the first place, meant to promote the maintenance of insurance with certain incentives. The first of the positive measures to this proposed amendment is linked to the so-called dual status. From now on, it will be possible to receive 40% of the pension in the first three years, instead of the current 20%; of course, after meeting the full-time age pension requirement. It is not a mistake to say that we have advocated 20% in Desus, but it is also a matter for compromise. During this period, additionally, as has been the case so far, in a slightly smaller proportion, bonuses in the form of increased dose percentages will run at 1.5% every six months. The latter is, however, the amount in three years, as far as these additional percentages can be accumulated, up to 9%. Following the current regulation, this amounted to 12 %. After these three years, these additional bonuses will be extinguished and the share of the pension will be only 20% – what our customer advocates. The news in two states also means that from now on, part of the pension will not be able to obtain in early retirement. Notwithstanding the lower additional dose percentages and the dynamics of acquisition, the incentive to continue work is still attractive and, in our opinion, properly conceived, as it stresses the strengthening of the evaluation of work activity. However, in the Desus Group we are asked who can remain fully active after 40 years of work. What kind of jobs are these? According to known data, less than 10 thousand recipients of these partial pensions are from the economy and only 20% from the public sector. However, the structure of education shows that it is not exactly highly paid jobs, so there are possible concerns that they can do work after a certain age only by officials and professors, perhaps a little premature. We imagined that, too, but based on that information, we will change our mind. With suitable fuses, as regulated by this law in case of prolonged hospital absence, there is no need to fear abuse. An important positive change in the law relates to an increase in the rate of 40 years of retirement, which is maintained for women to 63.5% in the coming year. Without a change for women, the dose would fall to 60.25% by 2024. For male subjects, the dose from the current 57.25 will gradually rise to 63.5% in the coming period. Increased dose percentages will also affect the higher dose of all old, disabled, widowed and family pensions. At the same time, a higher dose percentage is also set for the dose of all these individual rights. All of this is an important step in the assessment of the Desus Group that the starting economic situation will improve for all who will retire at the start. After the end of the transitional period, pensions are thus expected to rise by almost 11% for men and 5.4% for women. Of course, the reconciliation of pensions is then the factor that must continue to maintain the level of pensions in proportion to wages and also in relation to the increase in living costs. In the Desus Group, however, we want a six-year transition period to halve, as has been the case with many in this national assembly. It is still worth noting or calling that we should not forget all those who retired after 2012. Since the increase in the dose percentage relates to future pensioners, the aim of the proposal for a new law should be to improve the situation of future and current pensioners, in our parliamentary group we propose to take care of already retired persons, in order to ensure that all pensioners who have retired after the adoption of the PPIZ-2 have an adequate increase in the pension for new pensioners. In our parliamentary group, we also welcome the possibility of raising child care pensions. For each child of insured persons who took care of his or her growth during a one-year parental leave, the pension may be increased by an additional 1.36%. This bonus can be applied for a maximum of 3 children, which means that in this case the pension will increase by a good 4%. Although this has been added to the current regime as an alternative to lowering the retirement age limit, in our parliamentary group we consider this to be an important contribution to the promotion of greater fertility in our country. In the Desus Group, we find that the key points of the amended pension law are mainly to improve the social security of pensioners, as raising the percentages of the dose ensures that income is more appropriate for a safe age than has been the case in the last six years. As has already been said, it is essential to preserve the value and dignity of the pensions that have been earned, as well as to coordinate them. Similarly, existing lower-dose pensioners should not be overlooked. The redefinition of dual status according to our assessment has a positive impact on the higher value of pensions, while at the same time we can pursue on the one hand the objective of increasing the participation of older than 55 years in the labour market, and on the other hand we are following the objective of maintaining the sustainability of the pension register. Older workers can also be good teachers to younger generations. I would like to reiterate that there will also be a need to take care of retired people who have retired after 2012. The proposed text was adopted by the Economic and Social Council, which is very important, and we are also satisfied with the proposal in principle in the Desus Group. Our comments and concerns have been highlighted, and we expect to be able to make some of this happen in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u82	Dear Vice President, Secretary of State, all present in the Chamber, a nice greeting! We have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The proposal to increase the dose rate to 63.5% is not a solution, but a major problem, a very big problem. First of all, you're making poor people. If I say very much about who today has thousands of euros in net salaries, he will have 600 euros in pensions. Is that a solution for you? Do you know how much the minimum cost of living is? A lot more than that. For 600 euros you don't even get a room in nursing homes, not a wardrobe in Ljubljana; but you have found a way to make a working man poor – you will send him to retirement. You'd better tell people not to retire at all. There's no pension money. If there's any pension left, it'll be lower than cash social assistance. The accent must be said — we will all work to the death. Secondly, all those civil servants who have high salaries and a secure position to retire. They don't want to retire. These are university professors, doctors, judges, including teachers and staff from ministries and public companies. It makes sense that they will not give up their position. Why should we give up on our incomes that would be halved in the event of a pension? They do little or nothing; or, as Helena Blagne says, they are just a cost. But they have everything in their hands because they protect each other. Ask only doctors; young people burn and old people are not to be overlooked. At least that's what they say in UKC Ljubljana. It is similar with university professors; they share fat authors' fees and assistants work for two. It's not fair. But they're also in constant readiness, they can be good. They're phenomena, they'd call me in Ormozh. Nothing has been done in this area. Moreover, in the public sector, working hours should not be extended. Why would the state pay contributions to someone who's using the system? Anyone who thinks he's capable of a job should get a job in the economy. But I strongly protest that entrepreneurs should not work and receive a full pension. I know you'll be referring to the Constitutional Court's judgment, but that's in conflict with logic, because entrepreneurs pay their own taxes and contributions. Why would the state give it up? In every normal country, people are allowed to work; only in Slovenia. You yourself stated: Switzerland, Austria, Germany, Belgium and even Italy. I don't care enough about all those who don't have enough work time. I feel sorry for them in just one case that they couldn't work because of sickness or injury, and in all other cases, I don't care. I don't even understand why we're so complicated. If everyone in Slovenia had worked for 40 years, we wouldn't have any problems. But many have not, and even higher pensions than those who have worked for 40 years. Whoever's 15 years old at the age of 60 can't help him. We have proposed to raise the guaranteed pensions for all who are 40 years of age or older to €700. Expenditure would only increase by around 68 million euros per year. The government has rejected us, even though they would reward those who are most worthy. In Slovenia we have less than 150 000 people who can boast of 40 years of working age or more. We proposed the establishment of a state pension fund where each Slovenian would voluntarily save for his pension. I don't trust Borut Jamnik or anything like that, but I would, like others, save money on the state fund. The State could elevate these funds and increase the Fund's available resources. That would be real property management, not for commercial insurance companies to do that. The government replied: The government does not plan to establish its own pension fund. Besides, this government has had a year to provide a new source of funding for pensions. They have no idea. The working population can no longer afford these costs. Social security contributions are already so high. Are you going to hang them? While the government admits that, I quote, "in the last period, we are indeed facing a decline in confidence in the long-term sustainability of the pension system in all generations". Okay, at least admit it, but there's nothing done. I am very sorry that there are so few ideas and even fewer realities in politics. I am most sorry for those who work hard day in and day out. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a law, as pensions will increase to at least a small percentage. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Respected and respected! On the table we have a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Pension and Disability Insurance, which the Government introduced into the legislative procedure in early October 2019. The purpose of the law is to extend the work activity and to provide adequate income for the safe age of pension and disability insurance. The main solutions to the law are: raising the dose rate and thus increasing future pensions to 63.5% for both sexes at the age of 40 years, with a six-year transitional period for men. An additional dose percentage of 1.36 % shall be introduced to each child born or adopted. The lowest disability pension will be measured at 29.5% of the lowest pension base for 15 years of work. The proposal also regulates the new minimum disability pension for insured persons who have become disabled before the age of 65 at least 41 % of the pension base. Incentives of default in insurance shall be introduced, and each further year of supplementary retirement periods shall be evaluated after the conditions for retirement have been met, in such a way as to add a rate of 1.5 % but not more than three consecutive years for half-years of non-compensation. For everyone with dual status, i.e. those who receive a pension are reactivated and work full-time, the right to 40% of an old pension for the first three years of inclusion in the insurance is introduced. Part pension reform or, rather, a mini reform still interferes with the area of occupational insurance and is intended to pursue the objective of correct payment and payment of professional insurance contributions, including health insurance benefits. Demographic trends predict that, assuming equal migration growth by 2060, less than half of Slovenia's population will be active. Although Slovenia is comparable to other countries in the European Union, only half of us work in Slovenia after 55 years of age, which puts us at the bottom of the European Union. In the SDS, we estimate that the amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act are welcome, while the systemic shortcomings of the pension system are not being addressed. The pension system remains unsupervised, based on unhealthy solidarity, which is particularly reflected in the criminal relations between pensioners. The proposals for amendments to the law that are before us today are also unfair, as the rise in the percentages and bonuses for children will only apply to those who will retire in the coming years. On the other hand, nothing is foreseen for those who have retired in recent years under substantially poor conditions, i.e. for existing pensioners. We would expect the applicant to harmonise and mitigate the gap due to the different retirement moment. The proposals are also detrimental because the permanent corrections of the pension system granted rights to one another, on a second basis; and all the relationship between pensioners has been broken. Which means — people had the same salaries, paid the same amount of contributions at the same age; today they receive different pensions. The changes proposed by the government in the law in terms of equal treatment will cause even greater harm. Nor did the correction of the privileged pensions of this government hope to make it as right. At a time of prosperity or sustained economic growth, the payment of contributions was high. In view of this, if not the other, it is at least wasteful that at the same time the hole of the pension fund has to be patched up from the budget of almost a billion euros. The proposed amendments are therefore financially unsustainable, as the expenditure from the pension allowance budget will increase dramatically in the coming years. In the event of the forecast cooling of the economy and resulting minor inflows from contributions to the law, the measures will not be feasible at all unless taxes are raised or the State becomes further indebted. To sum up, we can easily conclude that the proposed measures are irresponsible, as the consequences of these solutions will have to be dealt with by one of the future governments. The state of the pension system will be even more unsustainable in the coming years, if not critical, as large generations of older people will retire and young people will always become involved in the work later on. Adjustments are therefore necessary and should be comprehensive and immediate. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware that the Slovenian pension system urgently needs comprehensive solutions to ensure long-term sustainability and fair and decent pensions. Certainly, we also agree with several promises made by the coalition and the government on a long-term sustainable and fair pension system, which would only be brought about by a prudent pension reform. The current proposal does not guarantee this. But at least it's an attempt to change something. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, at first reading, we will not oppose the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word has magic. Matthew Tonin. Let Franz Kramar get ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u86	Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! This law, the correction of the pension system, has two shortcomings, according to my assessment. The first drawback is that no one deals with the long-term sustainability of our pension system. And another weakness is how to respond to individuals who have now retired under worse conditions than they may be in the future. These are two shortcomings. I'll start with the last one. It is certainly encouraging to increase the percentage of pensions. From the current 57.25% to go to slightly more than 63%, this is certainly encouraging. But the question that comes to me here, as well as to many citizens, is where justice is. Where is righteousness here for those who may retire today or tomorrow at a rate of 57 and something else because in a few years this percentage will rise? If I present the matter even more plasticly, then I would say this – two employees who can have a net salary of thousands of euros and that we will theoretically say in a longer period of time, in short, that the PIZ charges you that your average net salary is accommodating and all that goes with it is thousands of euros. If you retire today, you'll have 570 euros in pension. If you retire in a few years when this rate is 63, you will have 630 euros in pension. There are 60 euros in between each month, despite the fact that these two individuals had the same net salary. That seems unfair to me. I don't think that's good. And I think that this law should provide that there should be some appropriate formula in this law for correcting these injustices by regularly coordinating pensions. What am I talking about? Those who have retired and today have this lower rate of dosing, those who will have a higher one in the future; those who have a lower percentage should coordinate and increase pensions faster than those with a higher dose rate. This would achieve, in a longer time dimension, that a citizen who paid thousands of euros would eventually have the same pension. That would be fair for us. I am aware that this can be technically difficult to do, but sometimes righteous matters are complicated or difficult. Because, otherwise, it is difficult to answer to people, why you who are retiring today are 570 euros; the other who will retire after a while is 60 euros more. And this dilemma should also be adequately addressed by this correction. Especially since the government coalition has dealt with matters quite like this, I would say, what is liked and not more, it is also right to address this problem in these matters, how is it appropriate now to address all those who have retired with a lower than 63% rate. This must be explained to people in some way. The first, even greater problem of this change in our pension laws is much deeper, much broader. That our pension system is unrestrained is absolutely clear because every year it goes from the state treasury or from the state budget to the pension fund for about EUR 1 billion, or EUR 1000 million. Our current pension system is a classic Ponzi scheme, which means that as long as more of those who pay into this system than those who take out of this system, the system works. When this relationship is substantially broken, it's a problem with the whole system. And in the past, in the '80s and '90s, as long as the ratio between employees and pensioners was one to three, so that for one pensioner they were three employees, it worked. Now that this is the ratio of one pensioner to one employee and one half to another, this system is inexistent in the long run. Sometimes that also asks me – where is that money that someone has been paying for 40 years for pensions, where this money, who stole it, where it went; but sometimes it's hard to explain to people that this money is nowhere, that money that you spent 40 years paying for your pensions, didn't go anywhere, but we have a system where the money they spend on our pension wages is given for the same month. Therefore, it is very important to know how many those who invest in this system and, on the other hand, those who draw pensions from this system. And since today, despite the high level of employment in statistics from our salaries, there is still too little money to pay every month all pensions, as I said, per year it is about one billion euros over the thumb, it is clear that our pension system is unsustainable. And with the billion we give each year from the state budget, you can only imagine what we could do with it. Perhaps two other tracks, a number of new roads, a third development axis, could connect Koroška and the White landscape with fast, modern roads. We could have done all of this if our pension system was sustainable, but it's not. Therefore, one tenth of the annual budget should be given to the pension fund. If I speak in proportions, I would say that a quarter of the contributions are made from the budget and three quarters are collected from our salaries for pensions. And however you turn things around and talk about them, you will have to think about any new, different system, any different receipts and approaches to make our pension system sustainable. And this law, which the government has now proposed, and these corrections to the pension system of this central, fundamental problem do not address; this is how our pension system can be made sustainable in the long run. That's not what this law does. And these unpleasant things will need to be discussed. And the longer we delay these things, the more unpleasant the discussions will be. I believe that the current coalition is difficult to agree on with a super-collective partner, but every such lost term or year then goes very wrong when some serious things have to be done in our pension system. And this house will have to think deeply about these things. I could be here talking to you right now in the Kordish style for maybe hours and hours, and I don't intend to burden you with anything that needs to be done. The only thing that matters to me is that we realize that it's still waiting for us. And if I end up saying that one of the major flaws in that, despite all the laws you like, is what to do with those who are somehow disadvantaged. And I hope and wish that the government will come up with some wise solution by the next second reading. The easiest thing to say is, it can't be too demanding, too complicated. We are here to solve also difficult problems, including complicated problems, and I am sure that everything is in mathematics, in algorithms, and that with mathematics and algorithms it is possible to calculate precisely how pensions need to be coordinated, that pensioners who have retired with a dose percentage below what is written in this law will be below 63 and something else that will reach equally high pensions in the long run. And the solution to this problem also depends on my support.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The government representative, Secretary of State Tilen Bozič, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. I've decided to respond a little faster than I thought at first, because what things are good to address right away. The first thing that I would address and also often mention is that the pension system is presumed to be unrestrained. The pension system is not unrestrained. It's a system that has a strong inertia, but it has to be maintained year after year. On the basis of some mathematical formulas, we can look at those graphs and say that in 70 years, the system will collapse. Surely, even any car you have, even any more complex system, can be seen by a Hadron knocker. If no one comes in, doesn't look, doesn't fix, doesn't adjust, every system collapses. This makes sense for the pension system to be in a reasonable way, but no matter what, relatively similar, it is for a few years, it intervenes and looks at what needs to be adjusted; and it makes certain improvements. The fact that it is often mentioned to all that this is a possible Ponzi scheme, we certainly cannot agree with that either. This is a classic flow system whose basic premise is that those who are currently working are paying in to receive pensions for those who are currently retired. Accuracy applies to many benefits in this country, and this system has proved to be, we can now say for decades or much longer, even more resistant to swings that happen to us in the labour market and the economy, and so on, as they ensure that, despite everything, there are certain swings, people always have a pension at their age that they can rely on. It is true that we will then start by discussing whether it is appropriate or not. In this case, by means of a coalition contract and also from the starting points endorsed by the coalition, we have found that it is not appropriate that it is too small, it is said that the system may be too careful that it is sustainable; in the meantime, forget little about who it was set up for. It has to serve people to survive, because if they eventually survive the system and do not survive, we do not understand anything. Our job is to keep an eye on it. An additional thing, as far as the relationship between the pensioners and those who work is concerned; it certainly does not speak in our favor over time. He's saying another thing in our favor. At times, you must have had to move about 100 cubic miles [100 cu m] of material, so many and so many people, including so many and so many tools. Today, the same work can be done by two, three with appropriate mechanisms, which basically means that it no longer works one for one or one for three, but means with all this industrialization that has happened, through the use of machines, by increasing productivity and so on, that in fact, not only people work for pensions, today machines work for pensions. Sometimes, maybe in stone age, we could talk about this kind of discourse, it's one-on-one. We can no longer talk about this today, for it is also essentially being created and can be fundamentally divided. The additional thing we often talk about is new resources to provide funds in the pension register. It's hard to say because I wasn't here when it came to deciding that employers' contributions were falling. If I look through today’s prism at what other countries are doing, perhaps that decision was visionary for one simple reason. Most countries are now looking at where they will get the resources to supplement the resources they need for the flow system, for the first pension pillar they are looking at excise duties, they are looking at the income tax of legal persons, they are looking at income. They are looking at all sorts of things and resources in order to provide more funds for the pension fund. Why don't they make contributions? Because we would like to maintain some reasonable workload because it is also important for competitiveness. And what happened when this change occurred? On the one hand, there were really fewer cash registers, certain scissors began to open up, and these scissors began to close with transfers from the state budget. What's the state budget? This is the most widely distributed structure of duties in this country. Where are we now on that visionary thing I mentioned earlier, which may have been lucky, but maybe not. It is a fact that Slovenia has already established a specific system which foresees that the existing pension system is complemented by taxes, excise duties and so on. Not only is it complemented by contributions, but we already have a source and one basic question arises – Is this resource essentially to change, upgrade, focus it more, go more on excise duties, more on taxes than legal persons' incomes, to what? In principle, the one that is the widest, if we look at the contribution that comes after ability, somehow appears to be quite reasonable. Companies with corporate income tax contribute to the working population with their income, those who drive cars and everything, through excise duties on fuel, those who spend other energy are called electricity and so on. There are a lot of resources to complement this, and it's not possible to view it as before, all of this together as one to one. That transfer from the state budget needs to be seen in a number of ways, not just from the fact that there is a hole here. It doesn't have to be. From this we have decided all together, this is a social agreement that we will be able to compensate a possible mannequin in a pension fund with tax resources. One more thing about the sustainability of the system. We have identified two basic problems, if I may say so, one from the point of view of the mass of pensions, which would also grow due to the increase of generations that are retiring, even because people are living longer and longer. The perspective that has been highlighted here and where Slovenia is also poor in terms of calculations and projections is the work activity of those who are over 55 years old. We retire substantially faster than other comparable countries where they live a comparable number of years. If we look at Scandinavian countries, let's say they live maybe two, three years longer, at the same time they work seven, eight years longer, which suggests that obviously we Slovenians, if we look at the survey, we feel much faster older, older, and so on, maybe less capable; in other countries, that is not the case. With us, we feel older after 50, 55, in other countries after the age of fifty-five. That's some kind of perception. To act solidly, however, shows that the age we can expect when we retire is completely comparable to that of others, which is with the most developed countries in the world, which means that we cannot sue that we may have a poor quality of life in the sense that some services or quality of living are not available to us that would allow us to experience such an age. And that's why we've come to this in such a way that this law that you have before you right now, this is the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, and also those that will be on the table in a few hours, this is the Labour Market Regulation Act, which takes as a priority the extension of work activity; but in a way that's positive. Anyone who comes – and this is what we would like to achieve – next year from 1 January to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and will ask for a calculation, and when they present to him what happens if he retires now, what happens if he retires in a year, two to show him this calculation: Ah, look, if I work longer, I will get more. In recent years, however, it may not have happened simply because the last reform that has taken place has been in difficult situations and some of the assumptions that have been used to calculate how much a pension will receive have been compiled in such a way that someone has come to the conclusion that if he works longer, he can get the same or even less. And of course, this is very insidious from this point of view when someone decides whether to work longer or not. For this reason, we have relatively strongly defined all the provisions in the direction of stimulation; the right additional year is brought over either through an additional dose percentage, either by gradually raising these dosing percentages, or by someone who fulfils the conditions of retirement continuing to work and thereby improving the current situation through income; on the other hand, it also improves the long-term perspective that they can expect for sure a higher pension that will ensure a better standard of living. We have assessed with regard to this transitional period that, somehow, six years is the period in which this is to be encouraged in such a way. After this period, new solutions will have to be found. But surely, if we approach some average European activity at the age of 55-65, we will significantly improve the long-term prospects for the stability of our system. Looking at the system of assumptions, including how the European Union assesses the quality of our pension system, sustainability and so on, it is one of those that has a significant impact. A significantly different situation is in terms of this relationship and also of how much you are then someone through the retirement age that he chooses can be expected from the pension system, so that he can then have a decent pension. In view of the first intervention, what I wanted to say in a concentrated way is that the pension system is sustainable; however, we must be careful.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, for your intervention, the debate will be interesting. I think we got the wrong idea or you misunderstood the debate in my work. You claim that our system is sustainable, and I say that our pension system is not sustainable, and I have also offered very specific data. As Secretary of State, you know that, for example, I was on a quick flight in the past year 2018, the state budget contributed around €850 million to the pension fund. If our pension system were sustainable, then this transfer from the state budget to the pension fund would not be necessary. I agree that the state budget collects VAT money, from excise duties, from all kinds of things, even from income, that this is a very scattered set of resources that we receive in the state budget. My point is that from this state budget, it's a poor billion euros in pension money because the pension fund is running out of money. There's money in the pension register from all our wages. Of all the salaries we pay in Slovenia, pension contributions are collected in the pension register. When this money is about pensions, it's simply run out in the end. That's why I'm saying our pension system is unrestrained. Of course, our pension system would be sustainable if what we collect from our salaries is enough for the pensions we pay. Here I'm saying our pension system would be sustainable, but it's not. For some serious debate, a serious change in the pension system should, of course, be discussed how to ensure long-term sustainability of the pension system. This means that what we collect from wages will in some way be enough for pensions; that there will be no need to add from any other source. Unfortunately, we don't have oil as Norway to add to pensions from oil sources. But let's say we have three options, which are all very unpleasant. One option is to give more than our salaries; this will make no one happy, and at least the economy; the other is to pay more for our pension; and this will also make few people happy. Then there is the third option, which is that more people will pay into the pension register, which means that if there are more employees, they will also pay more in the pension register. I see that some are nervous, that's a replica, that the Secretary of State has to be explained that I meant [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u91	Mr. Tonin, the replica lasts three minutes. You've been through 12 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The word has a government representative, mag. Tylen Christmas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u94	You've raised me a little in my education. I hope to be a master someday, but I haven't yet. I think we got along just fine. I just wanted to show you one thing from the point of view of modern trends. The classic system, if we look a little bit more at Bismarck to just fund it with contributions, it's getting a little out of date. We have embarked on this path, a modern path of funding also with other resources, a little earlier. I said I didn't know the exact reason, either intentionally or unintentionally, but we did the right thing or you did the right thing then. In fact, it is not about the fact that the manca is in the pension register; it is about the social arrangement that part of the pension fund will be financed by taxes. That's all it's about and that's smart.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u95	Here you go, Mr. Tonin, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u96	Secretary of State, you misunderstood me. I am not saying that it is a mannequin in a pension box, of course the pension box does not work with a minus, but the pension box does not work with a minus, because from the state budget we cover this minus because from the state budget we put in a pension box for 850 million euros of money. Just so we're clear about this, I'm not saying that the pension fund deals with the minus. The pension box does not deal with the minus, but does not deal with the minus because everything that is missing is given from the state budget. Therefore, my claim is certainly justified that our pension system — as we have it today — is not sustainable for a long time because more and more of the state budget will need to be added. And that means less and less for roads, for schools, for hospitals. That is why you are absolutely right — and here we agree, but here we understand — when you say that there will be other alternative sources and options to think about; and that the government has already considered how these things would be perfected and filled in other ways. This is certainly encouraging if these things are considered to be a voluntary option for a few more years to work; how other options would be available for them to make decisions about them. But the important thing is that we have now cleared up what anyone thinks; and from here on out only smart solutions need to be taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word is Franz Kramar. Have Franz Jursha ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u98	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I almost gave up trying to get my word on it, but thank God I'm here. As far as the sustainability of the pension system is concerned, of course it is sustainable. With these pensions – €600, €530 – the system is still quite sustainable. But if, of course, we had pensions that should be European comparable because we are in Europe, then this system would not be so sustainable. The pensioners were also, in fact, very affected by the ZUJF when it was adopted. In recent years, pensions have not been harmonised due to the ZUJF and therefore the level of these pensions is the same as it is. This year, regular harmonisation of pensions has already taken place by 2,7 %, followed by an extraordinary harmonisation of 1,5 % in December and a re-harmonisation of 3,5 % in February 2020. This is a slow coordination that may slowly raise the existing level of pensioners, but I still think that these pensions are incompatible with European developed countries and that there is still a lot of work to be done here. In fact, we do not know, the dose percentage is expected to increase from 57% in six years to 63.5%. In six years. Why in six years? I can't do that. Why wouldn't that happen right now? I think it would be very fair that people who retire next year could already be taken into account at this 63.5 % dose rate; but obviously this is now a transitional period of six years. I am also concerned that the first two years, if, of course, the pensioner decides to continue working, recognise 40% of the pension and fall to 20% in the next three years. I don't think the pension is a social transfer, but it's earned, it comes from the work that someone has done in the past; and if someone is willing to work in retirement, then the pension should not be, but should be left with the whole pension. However, if I wanted to work, I would have activated myself and started paying my contributions again and would have gotten the state treasury on it. Once again, I would like to point out that the pensioners are not interested in whether this system is sustainable or not. The pensioners want to know whether their pension will be higher or lower in the future. I come from the periphery, and I can tell you that people are rewarded with 530 euros in pension for 40 years of garage work, garage work. This is reality, even on the periphery, where there are very few public services, mostly based on the economy; and also the vast majority here are farm pensions, and that is what you need to know. The farmers' pensions are miserable, and with that kind of pension, someone can't survive. If we put ourselves in the role of a pensioner who receives 600 euros and his wife gets 600 euros, that's a thousand 200 euros. Old people's homes cost thousands of 300 euros ahead. It is said that with his own pension he cannot afford a place in the home of the elderly, but he must assume the obligation of his own relative or relative who pays for it. If he does not have relatives, he pays the congregation, which means that once that person dies, the congregation can seize the property of the deceased and those who did not want to pay for anything without everything. There's a lot of theory here. People don't understand theories. Secretary of State, don't mind me saying what you're saying, pensioners don't understand much. It is necessary to see things in practice, which means that it is necessary to see whether there is an option in the future that we will be able to raise pensions to the level that people in the democratic system deserve. Without that, we'll always be back. I think we need a comprehensive pension reform. We are giving something here today, but in a global way, I am sure that pension reform will have to be approached. This gives hope that our pensioners may receive better pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Jurša. Get Jani Ivanush ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Good bye to all of you! To better understand the present, we also need to know something about the past. Our pension system is based on evidence. Pension funds are paid on the basis of contributions actually paid by employers and employees, which is said to be the Bismarck system known in various European countries – Italy, France, Germany and other countries, including Austria. Such a system is financed by contributions, I mentioned, and look at what happened in 1996. The contribution from 15.42 to 8.85 % was reduced to employers. And, my dear colleague, Matthew Tonin, here is the key problem of short-term incontinence of the pension system. However, everything else must be allocated from the State budget to the extent that it is collected on the basis of payments. The state budget, when it comes to concrete, accurate data, even financed a billion 582 million in 2014, 977 million in this year and 934 million in 2021. Also, the demographic fund – which we have not set up in Slovenia – should be, and in our party, our parliamentary groups are still working hard – will help with the sustainability of the pension system; not with an empty bag, but with a demographic fund full of bags. Slovenia is unique in the European Union, which has such a system of contribution rates that employers once have a lower rate of contribution than employees. Due to inadequate coordination of pensions with wage growth and living costs, these have been severely lagging behind in recent years and need to be coordinated. During the economic crisis, we assessed the deficit by 8.4%. Between 2017 and 2019, or pensions will be aligned to this amount, in order to continue to remain at 5,6 %. Therefore, I cannot understand some who say that coordination should be given by 1% in the event of greater economic growth. This time it is only 1% and some say that only 3% should give this 1%. We believe that this should be at 2.5%, as pensions are still lagging behind, as I have already mentioned, by 5.6%. The ratio between pension and net salary in Slovenia was between 1992 and 78%, in 2008 and 67%, and today just over 57%. These are the keys to falling behind and being retired. A little comparison. The average pension in Austria is €800 and the average pension in Slovenia is €620, says 57% of the net salary. The share of pensions in gross social product in the European Union is 12.6%, Austria is 14.5% and Slovenia is 9.8%. I am concerned that the share of pensions in gross social product is declining and the number of pensioners is rising. It falls into a gross social product and the number of pensioners is rising. This is incomprehensible, incomprehensible for any normal person. But don't get me wrong, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, you have nothing to do with this. You're just heirs to something. The number of pensioners has increased by 30%, my dears, and pensions in gross social product have decreased by 19%. Does anyone understand that? It's very hard to understand. We believe that wages are overtaxed compared to other countries of the European Union. The same applies to the belief that the economy is more taxed than other countries in our immediate vicinity. We are comparing the taxation of part of wages and of the economy. The European Union's total wage taxation is 43%, Austria's 50% and Slovenia's 43%. Either I don't have good information or we're closing our eyes to reality. On the basis of these data, we can conclude that the pension system does not jeopardise the growth of the pension population, but rather the unfair distribution of gross social product, which is detrimental to the pensioners. In the last real reform of 2012, it was announced that the legal solutions would satisfy the financial sustainability of the pension system in the short term, by 2025. The effects are also visible now. By 2025, we can count on this system to be sustainable and until then we need to complete it or make a new reform. But, my dears, no reform so far, without me knowing it was not for the benefit of the users, it's always to their detriment. This is the first time a small fraction can be used to benefit pensioners. The current legislation on pension and disability insurance regulates an increase in the dose rate, which, of course, in our parliamentary group, we welcome in our client, to 63.5% in six years. However, we do not agree with this proposal in the Member State and propose three years or that the dose rate rises to 61.5% in the first three years. An additional dose percentage of 1.36 is given for the care of the child’s parents or the parent. And we agree with that. But it can also use this rating at age. We support the incentive to remain in the insurance system or in double status in our party and in the sending group. I'm not going to talk about percentages right now, because there's been a lot of talk about this. However, we are convinced that this measure is actually useful. Interestingly, someone said that according to some evidence, surveys, the findings of 80% of people in the economy who work longer and enjoy dual status and 20% from the public sector. About 300,000 pensioners today live below the poverty line. 200,000 is just old-age pensioners, and that's an alarming information. On the basis of this data, we will have to make certain moves. According to my assessment, all those who have retired in such a dose percentage are lagging behind, here I am talking about the dose percentage following the 2012 reform, with a percentage of 57 and less. That is why we are proposing an appropriate solution. And this appropriate solution is supposed to look like this. Pensioners who have applied for this law shall, at the same time as the increase in the rate of the new pensioners in the transitional period by additional harmonisation, receive an appropriate increase in the pension in order to ensure the comparability of the real value of old and new pensions in relation to the completed pension period. Of course, I hope this can be done. We insist on that. I will also tell you that I can conclude in this direction that we will support this proposal in the first and subsequent readings according to the principle – better something than nothing. You could say that in the language of some who were in a common country. However, we would certainly like our proposals to be supplemented in the following readings.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Jani Ivanuša has the word. Let's get Marian Pojbich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Everyone else here, once again a nice hello! The topic that we have on the agenda is not easy at all because it is difficult and very complex, because it will be possible to create some injustices again because those who retired a while ago will not receive what those who will retire will receive in the future. Well, there's always a problem here, and it always will be. What is interesting is the debate by the Secretary of State, who compared the sustainability system of this pension system to a 70-year-old car, which I find a little strange, but if this is his joy, it should be. But I am pleased with the part of his discussion when we had these measurements, how many workers work for one pensioner; this is no longer, according to the new technique, machines and robots. That's something new, I've never heard it before, but okay. He also confirmed that this system is sustainable, okay. I have to focus on Mr Kordish's position, although unfortunately he's gone, it's Friday and he's gone. For him, all workers are exploited workers. I don't take you here any more. It is said that every worker working in Slovenia is a exploited worker. I don't get it. My head can't handle it. Mainly, if the workers in Akrapovic or Slavko Šega, the carrier in Ptuj, are exploited; I do not believe in this, they are very well paid and they like to work. I can't accept that they've been taken advantage of. But if so, there are other services that regulate it if exploitation occurs. I would touch on my question of the mission, where I gave an initiative for those who had 40 or more years of work. I have taken the initiative to raise this to €700, this is an initiative for the government. I also received an answer, and I will quote: “According to the data of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia, in 2018, the average number of these people is 115 thousand 176, who are 40 years of age or older.” If all pensioners were 620 grand, that's very few, I'd call it. As a Member, I would like to thank them for putting this 40-year working time through. But if I were the president of the country, I'd congratulate and give everyone a confession, something like that. Today we accept an increase of the current dose percentage,57.25 for men and 63.5% for both sexes, which will be gradual and will take place during a transitional period of six years, which means 1 January 2025. I am here in a bit of a dilemma, otherwise Mr Kramar well understood why only on 1 January 2025. I wonder why this discrimination between men and women? Why wouldn't it be the same for men as for women? Why there's a difference because I don't understand it. Where are these advocates of the principle of equality today in this matter? They are not; but they are well paid. Why this discrimination between a man and a woman? But I'm asking the question, Mr Secretary of State, how do you treat the retirement of the third sex, is the middle sex? The one who came from a man to a woman or a woman to a man, how do you retire? That's one question I don't care about. It's not funny to me. It's an interesting question to me. Of course, at the dose rate, I would say so. I told you in my opinion, you can't work in our country like that. Why shouldn't a pensioner work? If he's got a pension, he'll be working long hours. Okay, now we're going to go from this to 100% of the pension plus 20% of the extra earnings. Now we're going to 40% with this law, because three years ago to 20%, I don't get it. That is also what Mr Kramar found out. I don't know why you wouldn't if you had a 100% pension but if you were working; let's leave that constitutional judgment in which 5:4 judges ruled. This is also strange to me why; but why not work if the pensioner has a hundred percent pension still working at work, as it will eventually be an income. It's only good for the state. I don't get why this should be any lower. After all, all of this will be settled again at the checkout. And the state gets more, that's all logic. I don't realize it's going back from 100 to 40 and it's going back to 20%. These are such questions, Mr Secretary of State, I am interested. Also, I would like to know if the law that I believe will go through at the time of the hospital of this pensioner should not pay pensions in order to prevent this exploitation from happening again. If I'm retired, I'll deal with you to retire, I'll work for you, I'll have 100% pension plus 40% of the job; if I go to hospital, I'll get 80% plus 40% because the hospital is 80%. If you understand me not to pay my pension in case of a hospital, that's my thesis, if you understand what I'm trying to say. That's it, and secondly, thank you so much if I get any answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Pojbič. Get Aljaž Kovacic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u104	Mr. Vice President. I have to have a little laugh at the beginning. I'm sorry. Introductory first. All of us sitting in this House, and most of those in positions of responsibility in our society, are aware that pension reform is extremely necessary and extremely important. When we talk about long-term sustainability of the pension register, pensioners and pensioners will be able to live their lives in peace with dignity and dignity. I'm sure everyone sitting here is aware of that. And all that goes in this direction, all the suggestions and all the solutions that take a step forward here, thank God they're coming to the National Assembly. At the same time, there are also a number of open issues in this proposal, which we are dealing with today in the National Assembly. When I listened to this debate all the time and heard from the coalition Members and coalition members of the parliamentary groups that, with such legislation as is now under consideration, they were quite dissatisfied. Pretty dissatisfied. And I find it very incredible and interesting that if you are together in the government coalition, if you are working together to form a government, that these open issues until this hearing in the National Assembly are resolved and resolved as most of you think is right. On the part of the parliamentary groups, as well as the Members who have debated so far, I have heard ideas and proposals that are the right ones to go in the right direction, and that pension legislation that we are considering today, this law on pension and disability insurance has been upgraded and then somehow brought closer to what is absolutely necessary in this area for our pensioners and pensioners to do. Among other things, it was said that there was no problem with the sustainability of the pension register. Secretary of State, you also said that the sustainability of the pension system or pension fund is not problematic. Yeah, that's kind of what you said. I think it's problematic. More importantly, it would be, and this is what seems important to me, and even more problematic if we did what is absolutely necessary, while this law is being passed, so that those pensioners who have worked full 40 years of work have a full 40-year period of retirement, raise pensions to 800 to 1,000 euros while raising the percentage of the dose. One such about medium proposal came from Desus, who I was now listening to, some kind of medium proposal. And I'm sure it's only then that we could talk about some smart, righteous pension reform that would not only look at the solution to the problem ahead, but also take into account the situation we're in – 300, 400, 500 and so on. And if we exclude here those who have a pension of 500 euros who have worked 40 years have a full retirement age, they should also be assured that for as long as this percentage would rise, they would also get more at the pension. This means that at that point we could say that we are leading this pension law in this direction so that we can talk about some righteousness. Nothing helps us, although I personally agree, I absolutely support every thing that goes in the right direction, a positive direction for pensioners to get more because they have to get more. What is now is unacceptable. But we can't accept injustice. On the one hand, for those who will retire then and then and then, this dose percentage is the same; for those who have retired so far and who have a full-time pension of 500 euros, and who are as if they are not. And today I am listening to coordination, extraordinary coordination and so on; I will tell you one very important thing about which documents speak that cannot be disputed. In 2018 – part of Cerar's government, part of it was Sarčev – pensions were harmonised and extremely harmonised by 3.3%. In 2019, 4.9% have been harmonised, plus an additional percentage ready in December, if I understand correctly. This means that, together in 2018 and 2019, regular and extraordinary pensions would be harmonised by 7,5 %, exceptional and regular. Do you agree with that? I think it's accurate. And now look at the interesting story. In those two years, however, inflation occurred, which we have in 2018 – 1.7%. Inflation, which we have in 2019 and is not yet definitive, is 1.6%, and I am sure it will also be 1.7% or more, a total of 3.3 or 3.5%. And if we subtract this 3.5% from 7.5%, as far as the pensions are in line, we get how much? We get 4.5%. And if we calculate: 4.5% of the pension raise with all the reconciliations from 2018 and 2019, we multiply by a pension of EUR 500 for the full working time, 1% of which is €5. And if we calculate that, in 2018 and 2019, the pension increased by 4.5% with all these adjustments; so 4.5% times 5 euros is 12 euros and a half. This means that in two years, 2018 and 2019, those who have 500 euros in full-time pensions have risen by 15 euros because half of their pensions have been consumed by inflation. Half of that was consumed by inflation. The 15 euros have increased by aligning pensions to those who have a full-time pension of 500 euros. Is that normal? Is that fair? And then we talk about how to help pensioners. These are the results that can't be challenged because I have the documents here. Dear colleagues, what are we talking about? The pension increased by €15 to someone who had worked for 40 years, together with 1.5% in December with extraordinary harmonisation. It's sad, it's embarrassing. That's embarrassing. For these people who receive 500 euros in full-time pensions, we are not saving anything by means of this law. Nothing, absolutely nothing. This is not a pension reform for me, it is not what is expected of the government in this system, no matter what government it is. I agree with every thing that goes in the right direction that goes in the well of the pensioners; but this is not the right solution, this is not the right way because it is not fair. We have already said in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and I, too, will not oppose this law, because some things are going in the right direction. However, I expect the government coalition here to come together and find solutions that will also help those who have retired before this are not to blame. They are not to blame if the employer has paid them both the amount of the contribution to the state budget; but at this point, it is such a treasure that people cannot live out of it. And if we want to cut the suffering of these people who have worked for 40 years under conditions that I don't know, they weren't conditions like these today, because they were doing everything with their own hands, they weren't working with machines like today, when it's quite a modernized system in a variety of professions that I'm not talking about masonry, silence, malaria, those who work behind machines. I used to work in Paloma, I know what that means. And there people are still receiving between 600 and 700 euros in wages and working night, Sunday and holiday shifts; and they have a pension of 500 euros full-time. That's unacceptable, that's absurd. We need to focus on these new circumstances and respond appropriately. And thank God if other parliamentary groups come from within the coalition smart proposals. And of course this government should take them into account, but otherwise I don't know why you're sitting in this coalition supporting a government that doesn't hear you, that just hears you as much as it wants. I don't understand that. But today I hear from you, from the coalition Members, that you are very ill-willed, nervous, because simply what you think should happen does not happen. And I would never support such a government. I would never give it a vote. We should pack now; let's go. Let those who are able to move forward who are able to help people come. Not those who are here because of the passing of time, that they sit well on beautiful chairs and pay well. That's the whole story. And the pension system is in such a difficult and difficult situation that an urgent response should be made in the right way. And the priority is, I've been telling you all along, we have priorities that this government could set. The priorities are pensioners, the priorities are waiting types and the priorities are this law on long-term care. These are the priorities that should be set. And this should be subject to all the other things in this society. But not on the other hand, dear colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about sustainability, remember, at least a few years ago, and to this day, we have a case of illegal migrants who are more important than our pensioners. See what they can do, what can be done for our 40-year-old pensioners. Then we have support for wrongdoing; how many hundreds of millions are going in this direction. Various recapitalisations of banks, we remember where the money went; if this were all in the pension system. And spending money on studies and all the things we see now, looking at all these things, we read where all the money goes. The second track is how the money, TES 6, the debt write-offs ala Jankovic and so on. As much money as you want, you just need to get it right for the right thing. For our pensioners and pensioners who have worked fairly for their pension, it is necessary for them to do so because they deserve it because most of you who have discussed it have said that the pension is not a social correction; and then we should all be aware of it together. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I personally believe that it is imperative that Slovenian pensioners who have worked for 40 years ensure that, because we must, the policy must contribute its share here in order to ensure fair pensions; and, of course, such fair pensions as will allow them a decent age. This must be our mission. And I am sure that this law, which has been incorporated into the National Assembly, which we are considering today, is well-intentioned; but quite flawed. And I still think that, on the basis of what I have heard today, until the next reading of the coalition's parliamentary group, they will try to influence the government to introduce certain changes that will be fairer than what we are talking about today and what we are discussing. And once again, dear colleagues and colleagues, we are not here today to share, as I often like to say, with anyone, any political party or color; we are here again today to discuss an acute problem that we have in this society; but the acute problem is not the fault of the pensioners, those who have worked for 40 years. It is our responsibility, because we are their representatives, to find solutions that will be acceptable to the majority; and not to do wrong to others with new solutions. And that seems extremely unfair and inappropriate to me. And I believe that together we are able to take a step further. There are many young Members and Members who are not burdened with any matters that are not burdened by privileged pensions, which no one hopes to pursue, either by the government or by the coalition; but by Kučan, 5,000 euros. Who needs 5,000 euros in pension? Who, tell me. Is that fair?Oh, my God! On the other hand, someone has €500 for 40 years of work. Is that justice? Is that just society?Oh, my God! Why don't you take advantage of your privileged pensions? Why don't you cut them and make a sieve five times fairer? Why don't you do it? Why doesn't anyone do this? Dear colleagues, including the Ministry of Labour. If we had the right desire and the right goal to find suitable solutions in this system, we would also do so because you know that this is not fair. It's not. Any marriage can change. And why not change where justice is concerned? I am constantly talking about justice and honesty, and there I am, and I am sure that even the entire Slovenian Democratic Party and all Members of Parliament. If you do not agree in this government coalition in any matter, then come with proposals that will be in the best interests of the majority, then our votes are always there, no problem. Let us sit together and call ourselves bob beans, that we will not take solutions that will increase the differences in the long term, make even greater problems and problems for those who are already in trouble and who are receiving pensions that are impossible to survive. Let's find a solution like this. I'm sure then we've done something good, something good for the majority, that's our job, and that should be our duty. That is why we have gone to Parliament to help those who are most vulnerable, while at the same time doing no harm to those who are decent and very active in creating our society and our future together. It is always necessary to find appropriate, smart solutions to connect all the resources that we have at our disposal in this society, so that most of us in this society are satisfied and that people and all these young people will not leave Slovenia, our beautiful homeland, but will create here and thus provide greater and better prosperity for everyone and everyone in this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Aljaž Kovacič has the following word. But get ready, Mr Branko Simonovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! That we cannot be proud of anything in our Slovenia, we probably cannot be proud of the amount of pension that our pensioners have. However, we can be proud of this solidarity system that we have, because I believe that once this solidarity system is broken, pensioners will have even smaller pensions, and we will put health care at risk and all the public services that some solidarity system brings together. The whole point of the solidarity system is that it somehow adapts to social and financial reality. Two days ago, we were talking about student work. It is also a solidarity system for young students and students to contribute more than €60 million per year to pension and disability insurance through their student work. I think we can be very proud of this in society, because I do not know which other country in the world still has that people under the age of 25 contribute as much as €60 million to pension and disability insurance. In the past, we have also enacted a minimum pension. This government is somehow regularly coordinating — regular and extraordinary — pensions that are actually rising. Even for the most vulnerable pensioners, we spend more money. What I'm trying to say is that the government is solving the problem of pensioners who are retired today. What we are talking about today does not save pensioners who are already in retirement, for today we are solving the problem of those who will retire to the future. Insurers retire on an average basis under conditions that apply when they retire. Solving for the back — that is, of course, populism can be said, but financial sustainability rarely allows it. And what's the point? The pension system is a living matter; it must always adapt to the current situation, as demographic changes also adapt. If we know that today there are 600,000 pensioners and 900,000 employees, demographic changes over the years, thank God that people live longer than our ancestors. We cannot expect that people will be able to retire under the same conditions as they retired 20, 30 or 40 years ago; and at the same time there will be the same money in the pension box. Some data, in Slovenia is one third of the population aged over 15 years or over, of pensioners. That's 20, 30 years ago. In the next 35 years, this share will double, which means that if we are told today that we will adopt a pension and disability law that will apply for the next 20, 30 years, it is a utopia. As I said, the pension system is a living matter and in fact it is necessary to change it to five, ten years. It's not the point that you change it for a year or two, but it's actually necessary for five to ten years. For interesting reasons, 35% of people aged between 55 and 64 are active in Slovenia. By comparison, 75% are active in Sweden. So there's already a big difference in how many people work these years. They don't work because of different things, some are not able to do health work, some have retired, some are hard to do, and there is someone who can't do it. What do we do with this proposal prepared by the Ministry? Given that we have listened to a lot of criticism in the past that the matter has not been harmonised with the ESF, I am pleased that this mission in the Economic and Social Council has received the support of all partners. So, three essential things. We increase the dose rate from 57 in men to 63.5 in both sexes. Brother Ivanus of Ormož wondered why these differences had occurred in the past. As I said, demographics are changing, the world is changing, and as we know, in the past, the role of women has been slightly different. Most of them stayed at home, cared for household chores, children, and then had a smaller pension. By giving them a higher dose rate, the country somehow made sure that this pension was at least close to men in women. All these rights that we are fighting for today, we have recently passed the Gender Equality Act, have led to the fact that women today are something else in society that has been in the past. It still grieves me that women have lower wages in the same jobs, but it has led to some equality and is therefore expected to have equal pay for the same work, and therefore there is no reason for this percentage to be different. Why is this a period of six years? If we accepted this difference tomorrow from 57% to 63.5%, we would create this difference artificially. With these six years, we will not do what has happened in the past — to say that people will wait another year and then retire. Or in the past, when it didn't work out, when we had mass retirements. The second point regulated by the law is the co-receiving of the pension and the performance of the work of the pensioners. In the past, a number of non-cooperations between young and old have been created. I think we have to work together here. However, with regard to this proposal, it is indeed clear that I am defending the issue that you must live with the pension you earn and earn. For these 30%, 40%, which is now available to you, and then 20%, each of you has to decide for himself whether he actually wants to stay on the market, it is said that he is working and that he must not be making this profit in order to extend it so that he can actually survive. Hence, the pension you receive must enable you to live, and this must be for your own satisfaction or if you want to be active. However, the fact is that most likely those who have worked 40 years in the mine or some hard work will not have the desire to continue their work, and that is why it is possible for me to think about it. Above all, in academic waters, I do not want this matter to do that when you walk through colleges — I have mentioned this many times in this National Assembly — you see professors who are old, I don't know, 70, 80, 90 years old, while we have a handful of young researchers who, because of these people, don't get a chance or work hard and fight for projects to survive. So, I support the fact that pensioners can be active, that they can get a part of their pension besides their salary, and I want them to be limited, especially in these areas where we know that people are staying, I will mention again, especially in colleges, because they can be bored at home. The third issue, however, is the incentive to stay at this age of insurance, so this is 3% that you can get if you stay active, which actually means 9% in three years. All these measures presented by the Ministry, I somehow support, because this will increase pensions for all who will retire. I'd end up with a demographic fund. I believe it is a recent time for Slovenia to adopt the demographic fund as well. But maybe it's a little abuse of what the demographic fund is. The demographic fund will not focus on pensioners who are already retired, but is a demographic fund for the future, if I may say so. The demographic fund is intended for those of us who work today. We also need to know, as has already been mentioned in some debate today, that from country to country, it depends on how full the demographic fund is. The fact is, we're not a Norwegian with oil. I think that, recently read, Norway currently has €800 billion in the demographic fund. Unfortunately, there is a similar situation in Slovenia, perhaps not so profitable, but it is wood – perhaps we could consider arranging the demographic fund to be financed from the wood industry. So here, in demographic funds, there's a difference in how it would even exist. But it is essential that it be accepted and that then the demographic fund is not a political struggle between the parties in what way it should work. As I have already said, I support these positive measures. Finally, pension matters are a subject that is rarely addressed by the government. I think that last time in 2013, if I am not mistaken, there was a bigger issue under Minister Visiak, which was then coordinated by all sides. And that is the essence of everything, it is said, in pension matters we must not compete with each other – we should not compete with anything, but this is happening – but in pension matters we must actually be coordinated on all sides. Even here, back in 2013, I was still far from Parliament, but I think, as far as I read, all the experts actually agree that Mr Vizjak had done a great deal of work at that time. Finally, everyone has supported this, and I hope that in the future, we will be united in pensions and in these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic has the following word, and Mrs Mojca Žnidarič is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Of course, I support amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Especially because – and I believe that we will accept this – of increased dose rates as foreseen and that in this way men will have 11% higher pensions, women by 4.5%. The difference is due to the fact that these percentages are not even at present. It is also encouraging that those who remain in insurance or have so-called double status each year, of course, for a maximum of three years, will gain 3% per year so that this percentage can be increased if they remain in a working relationship and, of course, 40% of the pension. From this point of view, all other types of pensions will somehow be coordinated. Of course, there are some questions. I'm happy with what I heard today. First of all, I'd like to say that the pension is a paid right. That, my dear colleagues, is the right to be paid. It's not some divine gift that someone gave us, I don't know. The other thing I want to say is that pensions are coordinated. Look, we have an extraordinary reconciliation of pensions, which will now be 1.5% in December at the expense of non-coordination in the past. This is so-called extraordinary coordination. In February, there is a provision for re-coordination by 3.5% under the law, and if this amendment, which will be tabled by all coalition parties, is adopted next year, another 1% of the extraordinary coordination in December 2020. But all of this leaves a void. I am pleased with the clarifications made by Secretary of State Tilen Bozič, who says that in principle we cannot talk about the sustainability of the pension system when coordinating pensions. I fully agree with him that times are changing, development is moving on, and we will urgently have to look for some other resources to make this pension system sustainable. Nevertheless, I am asked some questions and I hope that the Secretary of State will listen to me and that he will try to find or that their ministry will find a solution. Look, all these changes that we're talking about today are recorded in the coalition contract. So these are some of the measures the coalition has taken to try to eliminate in some way during this mandate period, the measures taken on the basis of today's state of affairs are based on today's material situation of pensioners. That is why I expect, and I can also say on behalf of my colleagues from Desus, that this increase in the dose percentage will find a formula, let's call it the valorisation of pensions, for those who had and who have a lower percentage of what they will have when we accept it. This is too sensitive an area for a system to change at some time interval, such as our daily needs and abilities. Therefore, it will certainly be necessary to step together, to find some long-term solution that will, above all, be a just solution. And let them be and pensions must remain as a paid right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Žnidarič has the floor and Mr Gregor Perič is preparing himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Vice President. That's a nice hello to all of us! As we have heard and can read, these legislative changes are mainly aimed at two. This is the provision of adequate income for safe age or, as we say, decent pensions and the extension of work activities. Here I would like to emphasise, in particular, the voluntary extension of work activities and the stimulating extension of work activities. In these last days, when we are discussing pension legislation, we have probably received quite a few questions from people who are always afraid when we talk about Zpiz, so whether the age will be extended again or they will have to work in 40 years. First of all, I would like to say that the retirement age does not increase and no one will have to work for more than 40 years, unless he wants to and will be properly rewarded for it. So the current conditions remain, 60 years of age and 40 years of retirement or those who will not reach the age of 40 will retire at the age of 65 and the minimum condition is 15 years. Let's get to the finish line. As we have heard, there will be an increase in the dose rate. We'll all come gradually, both women and men, to 63%. The talk today was about this transitional period – yes, every pension law so far, they all had at least a five-year transitional period and, of course, it does. Six years, because then the calculations come in, every year half a percent of the pension up in men. It promotes, as I said, the employment of those who will work longer once they have reached the conditions for retirement. So far it has been 3% a year, and it's still like this, but it's actually going to be a percent and a half for every six months, so it's now foreseen. There was also talk about those back there. I think that we are all aware that decisions for those who are retired cannot be changed by legal decisions. As with those who are retired, we cannot now demand that they spend 40 years because the conditions are valid for the future, for those who are still active. Another very important incentive, or it seems very important to me, and also to mothers, to women who ask me that question – those who will benefit from parental leave are, as a rule, women will be able to choose between retirement early and applying this reduction in age, which is also in the current legislation, or rather choose for each child 1.56% raise. Here is the largest increase estimated at 4.08%, it is said that for three children this will be recognised. As far as I can tell, most women are now very inclined to do so. Double status, you've already stressed it today. Even now, the pensioner can meet the conditions and then receive 20% of the pension. It is true that we have foreseen in the coalition contract, and even in all the interviews previously even 100-100, it is said that people should receive the whole pension and full employment. How much did it cost? Here I have to say that this has mainly been coordinated in the Economic and Social Council, a number of negotiations have been held on this subject and percentages have been announced that the first three years can then receive 40% of the old pension and remain fully employed. According to the pension, the first three years account for 40% of the old pension and the following years, 20%. But that's true with the old-age pension. It doesn't apply in early retirement. As it has been said, there has been a huge amount of negotiations on this topic by all union partners, so I think they have found some appropriate compromise here, for which it does not make sense for us to change it for a percentage up or down. As the rates of retirement increase, widow's and family pensions will increase by 5% after this transitional period. As I said, here I have summarized these key issues – I think most importantly that all of this has been coordinated in the Economic and Social Council with the economic and social partners. There's something else I'd like to point out. What pleases me most personally and where I have now had the opportunity to participate, to argue and to influence the amendment of the legislation, is the current Article 85 of the ZPIZ-2. Pension legislation has been even more distant since I knew it – back to both PPIZ-2 and PPIZ-1 – distinguishing between persons with disabilities who received either the first category or the third category and were employed on the day of the disability commission, i.e. compulsory pension insurance, and those who, on that day, on the day of the commission, were no longer insured and were unemployed, so it is not without compensation. Automotively, all these people had a 20% lower disability pension as well as cash benefits, depending on which category they received. No one could ever tell me why this difference was. Because if these two people were working the same age, 30 years or whatever, I never knew why that difference was. And this difference, this anomaly is now being corrected by this change of law, which is really fair to me, and it's also an equality before the law. I'm very glad the lawmakers listened to my arguments. That's what I'd say. So far, all the pension legislation that has been adopted has sent a number of people to the employment agency because they were afraid that conditions would change. I think it's true that the first person who won't do that is going to keep people in a working relationship, because, as the Secretary of State said before, if someone gets two calculations when they see how many pensions they're going to have today or if they're going to be working for another three years, because then they're going to get an extra percentage because they're going to be working for so long, I think they're going to decide if they're going to be healthy and they're going to be able to keep working. However, there are also improvements in the field of disability pensions and occupational pensions, so I actually support all these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word has Gregor Perič, to prepare Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you, Vice President. Nice greetings to all, including the representatives of the government! We have heard many times today that we have on the table one proposal, which has been primarily socially coordinated, and this seems to me to be a key element of the current political situation, a key component of this proposal for pension reform that we have on the table, because we have also witnessed certain solutions in the past weeks and months that did not have this element or these characteristics and have been the result of some political pressure not to say blackmail, which is a shame. Because, as it is said, social dialogue did not come overnight, it makes sense, let it make sense, and if we bypass it, then we do damage to ourselves in the long run. Therefore, all congratulates and commend the Ministry for its success because I believe that it was not easy to reconcile the interests of the State as such on the one hand, on the other hand, the interests of the workers, on the other hand or on the third hand, and on the other hand the interests of the employers. We can quickly push this scale to the side of one or the other, and then a lot of bad will will be justified, so that we need to seek a particular balance, some satisfaction and, above all, some opportunity to keep this dialogue going. That is why I am very pleased to hear that this social dialogue at this point, when this was coordinated, will not stop, but the solutions are also sought in the future. Unfortunately, demographics are not exactly written on our skin, so in the future we will have many more challenges that result from the age of our population. If we compare our population or our picture – now if I look for it, it will probably not find this data, but – I think it was much more encouraging in 1991 than it is today, so we also need to take into account that today we have a lot more pensioners than we had in 1991. Many also remember the conditions for retirement back in the days of Yugoslavia or immediately after independence, they were significantly different, even significantly better, than the conditions for retirement today. This means that people were able to retire at a lower age and on the basis of a higher dose percentage, and also the period for calculating the pension was significantly shorter and, if I recall correctly, it was possible to choose. Today, however, we have a 24-year period, i.e. a fixed 24-year period in, say, 40 years of work or time, periods of individual insurance. For longer than this period, there is a lower pension, because even during our career, people get different high wages, so incomes, sometimes higher, sometimes lower. So I was also a little surprised by the criticism by my colleague Pojbič, or by the SDS, that this reform was a bit unambitious or that it could be much better to respond to the needs of our people. I think that everyone in here understands very well the needs of our people and what else could be done or should be improved, but one is desire, one is ideas, the other is reality. However, I agree with Mr Pojbič that it was also possible to hear a number of criticism from coalition types. I will say so, I also understand these calls, I will take them more than calls that go in the direction of also addressing individual groups of voters who are more, the other parties are less close, or some parties are very important, I will say, investing in these shares, if I may say so, even in pre-election time. So it's right for everyone to say what they think. There's a lot of honesty missing in here. As we say, however, we must first and foremost be aware of political realities, even more so than honesty itself. If I keep going, I'm going back a lot more to history. We heard and mentioned Otto von Bismarck several times today, who built this system. A lot of people would think Otto von Bismarck was a socialist. He wasn't a socialist. He was no party, no political party, but he was a conservative, interesting. However, he understood the need to ensure certain security for the worker when he was no longer active. And today we have this system, which is as good as it is, even though we hear or earlier, there has also been a debate about whether it is sustainable or not sustainable. If I went back to that debate, I'd say it was more of a debate about the purpose of the means. If we look at it this way, the very contributions made by employees to the pension system are entirely earmarked and the state has to add some more from the budget, from other sources of the budget, from taxes, from income, from excise duties and so on, which are not intended, so they can be used for different purposes. It will be better for the country, less unintended part of the budget revenue, higher income from contributions to the pension system, and easier to find some optimal solutions. If I go back a little less to history in 2011, then – the voters and voters who then had the election right to say so, or citizens and citizens, will remember that – once, I think it was June, it was a super referendum Sunday. The contents of one of those three referendums were also prepared at that time a draft or a proposal for a pension reform, which had fallen quite infamously at that referendum. And then we had to wait another year and a new government in Slovenia to adopt some pension reform, which was not such a pension reform as the reform we have today on the table, because it had to take the social situation in particular. That is also why I did not fully understand this message which Mr Pojbič wanted to send. Fortunately, we are in such conditions that today we can talk about pension reform, which raises the percentage that improves many aspects. I believe that not all of them, because, unfortunately, not all in one step can be done, but it is certainly a step in a positive direction that will make life easier for the pensioners, which will provide them with higher or better economic conditions for life. In this respect, I would also continue and in particular reject the fact that this reform is a measure that goes back in the direction of capital. I am already a little tired of hearing through rhetoric, and some dialectic about capital for workers on the one hand, and I have also repeatedly said that we must somehow overcome this logic of thinking from the 19th century and realize that we are in the 21st century, where challenges are still slightly different. These parameters from the 19th century in the 21st century do not live, so they cannot have some real basis in the sense that they do not respond to the situation of the 19th century. I would therefore like to stress once again that this pension reform is intended primarily for pensioners in a positive sense. Here I am joining the words of my predecessor Mojca, who said that she is finally one of those reforms that make people not run away. So they know what they can expect, they're not restless, but in this sense they see some additional motivation to stay employed, they still actively contribute to society itself and thus help to make their pension even higher. In that sense. Of course, then, the question of how we respond to the challenges or needs of young people in the market is also raised. It is difficult to say here that through pension reform we can solve the issues and problems of young people. In particular, there is reform in the labour market, which must do its job and reforms in the sense of the school system, and various tax reforms that encourage young people to stay in Slovenia. One such step was taken just yesterday in a debate where we allow Slovenia, and especially the most productive work within Slovenia, i.e. the labour market, those who create the most to have additional motivation to stay in Slovenia, not to think about how to move somewhere else. In the last period, I must also underline this, we have lost some very productive, very pro-pulsive companies in particular in areas that are extremely new, in the field of blockchain technology and the like, unfortunately because they have simply found their place in a more tax-stimulating environment, which is certainly also harmful. I see this as a good, positive measure, from which many benefits will come. It seems positive to me that pensioners, or those who will soon become pensioners, are reassured that no one is upset at the fact that no one is afraid that because he has not rushed and gone to peace, he would be in a worse condition, that he would then regret it so much and so much, but that there are some positive measures that encourage people to be active in our society, and in this way we are helping them in the long term. On the other hand, we are also becoming more comparable to the other countries of the European Union, where the percentage of the older population still working is higher than we are. So let's even fix this balance here a little bit, and I believe that this will also make the pension box a little bit easier to breathe, and I think there will be fewer problems for both the cash and the state budget, probably for any other challenge that will arise to us. Let me conclude that this is not, as we have listened to in the last days, again a measure or a reform intended for the rich is intended for everyone, so it must be absolutely rejected that it is intended only for some high bureaucrats, Mandarins, doctors and others, but there are certainly many others who can benefit from it, and I believe that this is already reflected. Finally, as a Member, I have received quite a few questions as to what this reform foresees, just as it has been from the past. I must say that people with these positive responses were very calm very quickly, which is certainly good. As the economy wants a predictable environment, so do our people, including pensioners,. Let me conclude by saying that this is another step towards socialism, so this government has a social sense and it is necessary once again to reject it so that it does not, because it does not. Just as we have specifically raised social expenditure, so is this pension reform that it gives. Those who receive it will surely be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word, and he will be followed by Yuri Leprechaun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u114	President, thank you very much for your word. I also welcome the Secretary of State with my colleagues. Dear Members and Members! Today’s government law is like a dry fire drill — a feeling is good and we will not put out the fire. What is good is to be commended, but what is wrong is to be changed. And injustice happens to all those who will retire before this law is passed. If I say very clearly, it is immediately understandable that you will understand that if someone who has received thousands of euros in wages and retires before this law is passed, he will receive 570 euros in pensions if someone retires after the adoption of this law, after a six-year transitional period, he will receive 633 euros in pensions. So you're making a difference between pensioners. Also, this is what I would like to stress, increasing the difference between pensioners in any coordination of pensions. The current percentage mode of coordination of pensions, such as an increase of 2% for all, is unfair, especially for those pensioners who have the lowest pensions. This only increases the difference between the lowest and the highest pensions. On me daily, I may be exaggerating, but on a weekly basis, a lot of people ask me why the mass for pensions doesn't divide among all pensioners equally, because if it increases by 2% to someone who has a higher pension, it increases more than to someone who has a lower pension. The solution would be to increase everyone equally. This does not increase the difference, but we still maintain this proportion of pensions that pensioners receive. Most of these solutions, presented today by this government law, go in the right direction. You have probably listened to our discussions, we will support them in the first reading in Novi Slovenija, and in the second reading we will cooperate carefully to eliminate these injustices that we have highlighted in the debates. What I'm going to say today is, I miss the most, but the long-term reflection on this pension system — what are we going to pay for today's youth's pensions? Young people are studying more and more, and perhaps at the age of 30, I know a lot of cases, they still don't have one day of work. What are we gonna have at the end? A lot of social cases. And that's what I think too little has been said today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word is given by Yuri Leprechaun and will be discussed by Matthew the Widow. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Given that I have less than a minute left — and I am glad that I have so little left, as we have all discussed at Desus. I am also personally pleased that no party in Parliament will vote against it, it is said that the Government's proposal is on the right track and that we will do something good for our pensioners. As far as I'm concerned, the main thing is that we still have to – I repeat, but this is a fact – take care of the pensioners who are now in retirement who have paid their jobs, says they have been paying contributions for 40 years or even more. We have to take care of you, too. A lot of these things, we experience them through e-mails or we go to them in person – they say, what have you done for us. So it is also for Parliament to look at what we can do for pensioners who have been retired after the ZPIZ-2, as of 2012, when this percentage started to fall. I don't know, but I certainly think we have to make sure that we get there. With regard to everything else, I would say that this law should go on and that we will add something clever to the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is written by Matthew the Widow, and he will receive the word of Joseph Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, welcome to my side! We all agree, and we are all aware of our demographic image, and I think we all agree that pension reform should come as quickly as possible. I am therefore pleased that today we have before us a new law on the amendments and additions to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. This is a good basis for a comprehensive pension reform that we will have to implement as soon as possible if we want to or not. Mostly, as I said before, because of our demographic image. The novelty by means of measures promotes the extension of work activities and is geared towards ensuring adequate income for safe age. It also aims to improve the social situation of beneficiaries of pension and disability insurance. The novelty raises the dose rate by 63.5% for both sexes for 40 years, but with a six-year transitional period for men, by 2025. For women, the dosing scale will be applied as from the date of application of the law, in order to prevent the drop in pensions in the interim period. The new dosing scale will fully enter into force 1. 1. 2025. A gradual increase in percentages is needed in order to avoid excessive inequalities between pensioners in different periods of time. It provides higher social security for beneficiaries of the lowest age, disability and family pensions and disability benefits. The novelty provides for a more favourable valuation of additional insurance years of 3 % per year for a maximum of three years of insurance. This applies to those individuals who have already completed the conditions for retirement, saying that they are 60 years of age and have been in the service for 40 years. The novel also proposes to obtain a half-incentive, namely that for six months additional pension periods without the total value of 1,5 %, also a maximum of three years. The incentive is also extended to individuals who have already retired and re-elect for reactivation, as they are also welcome to extend their work activity. The dual status regime is also a solution that will affect the extension of working time. Pension payments are increased by 40% and old-age pensions for all three years after the end of three years are received by the individual by 20%, provided that he remains engaged in compulsory full-time insurance. The proposal also contains a safeguard or provision limiting the receipt of part of the pension in the event of a prolonged absence from work for health reasons. Part of the pension will be tied to actual work by the worker, a longer absence from work longer than 30 days will not be financially stimulated by 40% of pension payments. At this point, however, I must say that in this part I have one possible big thought. I would like to draw attention to the possibility of playing this dual status institute, particularly in public administration. I am afraid that certain officials will still be in office and will not want to leave their jobs, regardless of the effects and the work results. In short, I am afraid that officials will only go to work on salaries and part of their pension, and employers do not have an effective tool to break the employment relationship. Perhaps the government thought of this point in this part when after three years it reduced the rate from 40% to 20%. Therefore, in this part, I welcome this and I believe that it will be possible for an official to encourage him to retire when necessary. A very important part of the novel is also the part that regulates the improvement of the professional insurance system. The novelty covers the area of supervision of the correct accounting and payment of professional insurance contributions. The establishment of a basis for the payment of occupational insurance contributions, which will now also include health insurance benefits and will facilitate the establishment of an effective system of supervision over the correct payment and accounting of occupational insurance contributions. The provisions of the Directive of the European Union on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational pension insurance shall also be transposed into the novelty of pension insurance. The Directive deals in the Slovenian legal order with the area of voluntary supplementary pension insurance, which is primarily regulated in the PPIZ-2, the Insurance Act and the Investment Funds and Management Companies Act. The main objectives of this amendment are: to strengthen the management of pension funds and to improve the protection of members of supplementary pension insurance and beneficiaries, increased powers for supervisors, transparent information for members of supplementary pension insurance and beneficiaries, removal of obstacles to cross-border activities and cross-border transfers of rights, promotion of long-term investment in growth and employment, promotion of responsible investments. The proposed novel does not mean a comprehensive pension reform, but I do think that this is as many steps in the right direction as it contains measures to ensure the financial sustainability of the long-term pension system. On the other hand, it provides adequate income for safe age. At the same time, I would like to point out that despite our poor demographic picture, the proposed novel makes it possible for all those who will be working 40 years and will be 60 years old to be able to go to a decent retirement. Of course if they want it themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word to prepare himself for Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Your Honors are here! I will certainly begin where I ended up in the opinion of the parliamentary group, namely that we agree with the Government and with several promises already made about a long-term sustainable and just pension system that only a prudent pension reform would bring. Here we go, mini reform, and then mini reform, and then thoughtful comprehensive reform. So something's moving. However, I must admit that you have enough work at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities. You've got a rather demanding resort, a complex resort. What has already been said today is that things need to be coordinated with all the social partners, and so far you are somehow succeeding, is to say hello. It is also to welcome the fact that this mini reform is being invested by the Government, that these promises, which all together the present government, are being made, are being made in some way. It is clear from the fact that we have a meeting on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons almost every week, and now this President of ours may already be going on Saturdays, because Mondays have already taken over, because there is no time to get them through Tuesday to Friday. Next. We know and it is indisputable that there are quite anomalies in the system, some injustices that have been so far. We are reminded of this almost every day by our pensioners who come to us in the parliamentary offices, and then also by the pensioners' society, and by the association of societies by various civil associations, who would also come to the offices of the Members and to the groups of all of us. Thus, in some ways, good dialogue and good organization are needed here in order to satisfy all these wishes that come from at least five sides. It seems, therefore, that something is moving, and I am also pleased to see a little more understanding and sensitivity in this ministry for the good proposals of the opposition. I think it's the right thing to do, because he knows more than that. And certainly, if you are willing to learn and talk about learning and then change, somehow you can do better and serve that people better, for which you are actually called. As urgent as these changes are, many years of criticism speak. I just believe that the ministry sometimes takes our criticisms as constructive. I must also admit that the Secretary of State is quite well-read and is well on track with regard to all these criticisms that are flying him and responding. Of course, we are still waiting for action in the future. You have the title, the function, the function comes with great responsibility, which is why we expect action on behalf of the pensioners and all of us here and the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word and Maša Kociper is the last to be reported on the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today, much has been said about the problems in this pension reform that is ahead of us, so that I would not talk about it, but they are solutions. I think that this step that we are now taking, which is also in line with the Economic and Social Council, is the right one. We're all talking about demography being bad, like, third. Demography is just the way it is, and it is almost normal for countries that come to this stage of development. It's just that babies fall down, parents have fewer children, fewer babies are born, they want fewer children to be able to take care of them, to be educated, and so on. There are different situations, and we have to take that into account. However, we have a reserve for a sustainable pension system in order to extend the stay at work. We have not extended, this reform does not prolong the required age, as proposed, for 67 years, but in a soft way keeps workers longer in the working relationship. As the Secretary of State has already mentioned, Slovenians, compared to Sweden, remain seven years less at work, although we have the expected life expectancy almost the same. That's a difference, there's a backup. Fortunately, since 2014, we have started to grow in terms of gross social product, so there is more money, this year we have also made a record budget, for next year it is also expected, so there is some room to work here. But the biggest reserve, actually the biggest reserve, where we have done the least – I think that what changes and will change – we have in productivity. We are under the average of Europe, strong, almost 20%. And there's a big reserve. New companies appear, become more productive. To our detriment, productivity did not grow at some point, because some of the larger companies that had knowledge had a market, had everything, had everything, had everything. Why? Because there was too much debt, for financial reasons, due to unwise debt policy, credit, short-term, long-term investment. Some of these companies were given securities that weren't worth anything. They didn't collect the money, they didn't put it in someone's pocket, but it went away because they were just securities that were circulated around the world, contaminated, they were meant to take money out of someone's pocket, and we were taking it at the time of the cash rush, and we got into some kind of trouble. But they did a projection in economic college, so by staying on the labour market for a long time, with faster integration into the labour market, we have a large reserve to increase gross social product. Another issue is increasing productivity, which will further increase it and will make the maintenance of pensions a viable sustainable system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much. As the last one gets the word Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you for your word. I am very pleased that this law is finally before us, personally and on behalf of the party, and that it also legitimizes several things that have been extremely important for our party and we have also demanded that they be entered into a coalition contract. In 2017 and 2018, we carried out a major action where we collected signatures, signatures in support of the increase of the percentage, signatures in support of the proper regulation of the annual allowance of pensioners, so-called regresses, and also signatures in support of enabling people who want to work to be able to work honestly after retirement. All three things, or two out of three, to be exact, are covered in this marriage and we are very happy about it. As you know, we wanted to, and so it was written in the coalition contract so that some changes would come into force as early as 1. 1st of this year. Unfortunately, we have not received the support of coalition partners here, but as I say, things are moving in the right direction, what our programming promises have been to our voters is being realized, and we are extremely pleased. And that's not the point. I'm going to point out once again that we would consider ourselves a client of the pensioners, not at all. I think that no party in this House, and I agree with that, can own pensioners. The pensioners are a large social group in our country that elects different political parties, and so is the case. But when we look at different social groups, the pension group is the one where the current situation is the largest proportion of people who are very difficult to live. There are 90,000 of them who are even on the brink of poverty, according to the data. And if we have one as large a social group, which is so badly needed for assistance, the priority of every social, democratic and, of course, social-liberal party like ours is clear. For us, too, one of the main priorities is to improve the situation of current and future pensioners, and we will continue to do so. As far as specific solutions are concerned. The increase of the dose percentage to 63.5% is what we wanted and expected to have entered into the coalition contract, but we are not satisfied with the introduction of such a long transitional period. I have listened with great understanding and interest to the Ministry's argument, which says that in this way it wants to increase the activity of the population, that later to retire, this objective can be understood, but I think that yet another thought needs to be made about whether we can shorten this transition period. We think we could at least cut it in half. Another important point that our party has been working on since the beginning of the adoption of this law is that, in the case of the so-called double status, it is said in a situation where someone who has reached the conditions for retirement can continue to work, we must determine that his working relationship must be terminated in the meantime. According to homework, it is necessary to retire first and then with the employer who needs it — or if the employer is himself, such as many cases of craftsmen and so on — to conclude a new contract of employment and this contract for himself brings this rating, it is said that 40% of the pension paid in the course of the full or any kind of employment you agree with the employer. This solution responds to both dilemmas, to the needs of those who want to continue working and their work is wanted and necessary, and to the needs of employers who do not want to be prisoners of someone who does not need it anymore, but who does not want to go to peace, especially now he will not want to, because he will also be very financially rewarded for this. I am aware, however, that this is only a general debate and that it is only at the beginning of this law that we are discussing, but much has already been said in this debate about the problems of our system. I am also aware of these problems, and I am often thinking about how to talk them out. This is an extremely complex problem. I took a look at several of the Minister's replies to the Member States' questions, and I found out from these answers that the persons who went to our country's full-time and old age pensions were 30%. Thus, 30% of the people in our pension system are those who meet both of these conditions. Among the 450,000 mentioned in this reply, the minister, who does not include invalidity, family and widow's pensions, is more than 300,000 people who do not meet this condition. Here we are trapped in this loop. On the one hand, we advocate a solidarity system, and on the other hand, we are all aware that it is necessary to reward those who spend their entire working time and who have also paid the most in the pension system. I also remind you in this generation of my acquaintances, colleagues who do not pay pensions, who are convinced that the payment of pensions is stupidity, who pay minimum pension benefits, that they will somehow find themselves, and in any case the state must take care of them if they do not have enough high pensions. The search for this balance between a good social state that takes care of those who really cannot care for themselves and between the concept of solidarity and the reciprocity that those who have paid more also have something, because they need to be motivated, is, in my opinion, the greatest challenge of our pension system, to which we will have to respond in the future. We in the SAB party will continue to strive to find the best possible solutions, which must be financially sustainable, in given circumstances, when understood by all groups of the population. For we must be aware that every intervention in the rights of pensioners places a considerable burden on the cash flow of future generations. On the other hand, we certainly have to take care of the weak ones who do not have enough money for a normal survival. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which the representative of the Government gets the floor. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. First of all, I should like to thank you very much for your discussions, your initiatives, your comments, and the criticisms, not least for your expressed support. Regardless of who was discussing, you all somehow recognized certain solutions that you consider reasonable to go in the right direction, and that makes me happy because that means we can build a broad consensus. And when we talk about the pension system, there is always a need for the widest possible social consensus, very many people are touched, and at the same time it also has very long-term consequences not only in terms of those who receive pensions, but also in terms of those who pay into the system and will eventually receive rights from this title. For this reason, it was also very important to us when we went on – it is said that at the beginning the starting points were prepared, we were based on a coalition agreement, on some additional initiatives, we took this professionally and then carried it, if we say so, on the political prey of the coalition, which then assessed what was appropriate, what was not appropriate. On this basis, we then went on to the Economic and Social Council, as has already been said, there were eight rounds of negotiations. They have been respectful, constructive, and I consider them good, even because they are social partners, I must admit, in these negotiating groups they have named those who have long engaged in this, have in-depth knowledge not only from an interesting point of view, but also in fact from the point of view of the profession, in view of past legal solutions, past consensuss and what would then make sense in the future to look like our system. On this basis, we – also on the basis of a two-fold short meeting at the level of the coalition, where we still had to adjust slightly the mandate that was given to us to negotiate, just because we were at certain points, I can say, we were stuck, but then these changes – then somehow came to an end. One that I would point out and have been mentioned several times today is this dual status, so this percentage. The initial initiative, even as it was presented in the starting points, acted in a way that, after full conditions have been met, someone would receive 50% of the pension, then there would be a break, that is to say retirement, if so expressed, and only after the reactivation could someone receive 100% of the pension, with 100 % of the contributions to be paid. One explanation is that, in the framework of these negotiations, one of the partners in the negotiations has slightly changed his position, according to those 100 % pensions and full contributions to the full pension and appropriate contributions. However, in that constellation and in view of the current solutions that apply to that partner, it is extremely difficult to define the appropriate contributions given that it is already in some way comparable to other contributors in this system, in an extremely better position when we discuss how much contribution is made to the system in what we call a period of possible partial retirement, partial insurance and so on. That's why we started looking for another solution. This solution is now on the table. This is the first three years of 40%, then the drop to 20%. It was also correctly established in one of the debates, in fact, our aim was to look at the data, to figure out what period is meaningful to stimulate, to devote some short-term stimulation during that period, that is more money in the account, that is 40% of the pension, and at the same time some long-term stimuli. This goes in this direction to increase the percentages of the dose, it is said that the one who decides to work longer can expect the long-term pension he will receive, which he will be given, to be higher. And that's a lot more. So we're talking about that in three years this could be nine percentage points, which means about 13 to 15% higher pensions, which still means something. In addition, baseline dosing percentages are so higher. Therefore, there are also some such assumptions that were originally put forward by one of the parliamentary groups in this direction, and in this way that we are working in some way for the gods of fiscal rules that we are going to flush someone and something like that, they simply do not. Because on the basis of – let's say today there is an additional stimulation three years after the full conditions are met 4% at the annual level or four percentage points. While we are actually lowering this to three percentage points, but at the same time we are raising the general, it is said that the basic dose percentages, as has been said many times before, in men from 57.25 to 63.5, which means that when we both add up together, in any case the dose percentages will be higher, which is of course known. From here on out there have also been certain applications for a transitional period, it is said, why six years, why not less. There are more reasons here, and I think that we will continue to do so, not only in this session, even when we come to the committee, to justify them very well, to divide them and so on. On the one hand there are financial implications, on the other hand those are the basic objectives that we have set, and this is an increase in work activity. And as the last few years have been a transitional period, if we say so, down from the point of decreasing the dose percentages, increasing the number of years to be leased, when we calculate how much a person's pension will belong to, and, of course, then a few years goes around, and is now popular or known among people, we would also like to see that now, when people talk, they can also be popular in the market, anywhere in the service, they can be more likely to mean additional work. It is said that anyone who does something more will be properly rewarded for it, as well as those who may be doing as is now envisaged, can expect something more. In any case, we aim to start catching comparable countries faster from the point of view of work. But it's not about what we call a rescue solution. So, pension law saves part of it. There may be certain stimulations, certain solutions, certain options offered, including possible half-time, which has some stimulus or lower loads, so that someone stays longer in the workplace. However, the other parameters are also of exceptional importance. One is how someone who is older feels in that job, how he is adjusted, what health and safety conditions are in the workplace, how he actually feels in the collective, how his employer invests in him, in new skills, new knowledge and how he benefits from his acquired knowledge, is said from the point of view of mentoring and so on, that he feels involved, capable and desirable, as well as himself and the employer of his colleagues in relation to him, to participate in this collective. For this reason, there is also a degree of restraint when it comes to interruptions at a certain age. Since we have, unlike other areas in the field of discrimination that are not so elaborate, even at European level, in the field of work, we can say, at least from the point of view of preventing discrimination, that is relatively well-ordered. One of the discriminations that is unacceptable is also based on age. However, the debate here can be quite broad. I think that we have also considered well in our cooperation with both Members and with the social partners, what would be reasonable, that we have then come to the conclusion that, if we say so, we have been given this consensus on the Economic and Social Council. From here on, discussions were also set out in terms of why it is not shared equally with all pensioners. This indexation is called either when the pension is adjusted. If we look at a purely simple situation, in the next three months those who are already retired can expect a 5% higher pension at the expense of extraordinary coordination and regular harmonisation. It's kind of, like, concrete now. In the next three months, it is 1.5 in December and 3.5 in February for January's pension, which means a 5% increase. Why is there proportionality here, given how much someone receives pensions? Also because in addition to the solidarity moment contained by the pension system, there are others, and this is the insurance system. So, pensions always depend on how much someone was paying. For this reason, if we have a need for redistribution, this redistribution is usually through a system of social transfers, not necessarily from a system which is a pension system which is primarily an insurance system. It has a strong redistribution, that's true, but it's still set up to take into account how much time someone was paying and how much time they were paying. Therefore, it would be awkward to make nominal or flat-rate contributions to everyone, from the point of view of the system as it was set up, that is, according to the philosophy of the system. This is why it is handled in different ways. One of the discussions today was also an annual supplement. Here, however, I must say that the social partners – here we also share a position with them – have estimated that this is primarily a social transfer. Why? Because those who have a lower pension receive more than those who have a higher pension, which basically means that it is again a redistribution regime. So, it's okay to have it, we have it for some reason inside the system, but the basic question is whether it might not make sense to include it in the system of social transfers, to take such an example and to bring the pension system closer to what it should be, it is said that it follows this insurance principle. One of the important elements of our pension system — I mentioned this age and possible discrimination earlier — is that each, in principle, decides when to retire and thus actually protects its own pension conditions at that time. For this reason, if we look back at someone for a few years, three years, four years, we can figure out, otherwise, they dropped the dose rate slightly, but at the same time they took into account a shorter period when they watched how many years were taken into account for the calculation of the pension. Which means it has already been said that it is mathematics or that it is complex. It is really complex, it is necessary to take a very good look at it and be extremely careful not to actually cause new injustices. For this reason, some general approach through the indexation that we now have is called regular and extraordinary harmonisation, set in some way, which is likely, regardless of whether anyone seems unfair, a relatively good approximation of what is appropriate. From here on out, one more thing about pensions. The pension scheme is not for itself a standing and pension granted to the pensioner, nor can it be observed solely from this point of view as to how much that amount is. What do I mean? With this in mind, if we do, and this is what this government is trying to do, we will probably be more successful than if we look only partial to the amount of the pension. What does that mean in practice? If someone receives, say, 600, 700 euros in pension, there is nothing to help him if that month has 900, 000, 200 euros in expenses, because there are certain services, they can be health care, they can be medicines, they can be services within a pensioner's home, they can be anything else. So it is our aspect, including the ministries of work, that we also take care of his spending side. It is said that certain support services are being developed, both physical infrastructure in terms of home for pensioners, community centres and so on, as well as in terms of some infrastructure in terms of services, that health services are available to him and so on, which is slightly more in the domain of the Ministry of Health. But no matter what, we're gonna have to work on this together. And so it is possible then to achieve that, although we may not be able to afford a greater increase in these pensions as a country at some point in time, but because of the good system that we will set up, which will also be provided by the State in terms of services, support to the elderly and so on, we can ensure a good quality of living for the elderly. From here on out, the previous number was EUR 5,000 for pensions. The highest pension paid last year was EUR 2 000 767, not EUR 5,000. I don't know if anyone's too interested in this, but only so much so that you know what the correct information is. In fact, for several reasons, as previously said, it is usually a link between the number of years a person has made and the contributions paid. From here on out, one statement was that I said that the sustainability of the pension system was not problematic. Here, I said that on one condition, which I also said, on condition that the system is regularly maintained. It's a condition for all systems, small, large. In the beginning, I gave one parallel to the machines how it is. She may not have been the most suitable, but she is. Each thing, especially so complex, must be maintained. At one point, I think it was misunderstood from the point of view of a long - term hospital. The person who is employed and entitled to receive 40% of the pension because he remains active and goes to a longer-term hospital, in which case he would not receive that share, is said to be 40% of the pension. Our assessment is that it is the duty of the State to ensure social security, but given that it is provided through the settlement of the hospital, there is no need for rights to be accumulated here. Since the situation that could happen is that someone, say a fellow worker who was at work, would receive 100% of the salary, someone who was there and would be in a long-term hospital would receive so much and so many percent of the hospital, would receive another 40% of the pension, and would be in a situation where the employer is not actually in the interest – or he does not mind – because it is not his expense – it is fine for the worker, in principle, to receive more than he would either in retirement or at work, and the state must pay it. But it's not the country that pays, it's always the taxpayers. Which means that in relation to them or to all of us, it would be unfair to do so. From here on out, as regards certain issues concerning differences between men and women. There's got to be something historic about this. If everyone were here and asked those of you who have children under age, who has been home for care for the past five years, I can already imagine what the pattern would be, is who would actually raise their hand. Also from the point of view of who benefited from the parental allowance, who was at home in the first year who cared. Statistically speaking, even what we were looking at would be an extremely clear picture. These are the things that then affect career advancements, the wages that someone gets, with that on the insured income, and eventually on the pension that someone receives. And they still have a historical view of women in the past, now slightly less, done more informal work at home, which is not paid, is not insured and therefore have nothing. For this reason, a certain concept of positive discrimination is laid down, if I may say so. Now this closes, of course we go to the same dose percentage, and it adjusts a little bit in this way to look, okay, but who is the one who was at home at the time when we had to worry, if we say so, for this first year in children, and in this way we adapt the concept, let's put it a little bit more in the direction of some new trends that are now emerging. I think that was what the question was. It is also the case that we, as far as the preparation of this law is concerned, are looking for a broad social consensus – an open card approach. To everyone who invites us to the Group of Members, we come, explain, present. You can also ask us any questions, send them, we'll answer them, we'll look at them, we can give extra calculations and so on. Because, as we say, we're building as wide a consensus as possible. Given the amount of time we took and invested in this, we certainly have no fear of any question, I think we can answer everything. However, if we find that something we are not able to answer, it can only be good because we need to figure out or come up with some solutions, why, as we think, it is right or if it is not, we need to make appropriate adjustments. As it is said, you have solutions on the table that we hope will enter into force next year. For men, the dose percentages rise; for women, they stay at the existing level. A slightly increased double status is established in terms of 40% in the first three years instead of 20%, an additional dose percentage for children is being established, and then the dose percentages are also raised for those who have a minimum, according to the lowest possible pension when we are talking about those 15 years that someone makes and fulfils the minimum pension conditions, to 29.5%. It also increases dose levels in widows, in family pensions, in the case of disabled persons. So we have tried to approach everything in a balanced way and gradually raise it up with the simultaneous goal of increasing activity in those over 55 years, which we estimate will significantly improve our perspective for the future, facilitate or reduce the burden on the pension system and allow more room for manoeuvre needed to build a wider consensus to actually service this system as much as possible. Besides, one last thing. We have already set out to continue this action, so that when we conclude in the National Assembly, we will re-sit with the coalition and with whom more extensively, we will also look at the matter in cooperation with the social partners, and in a relatively short time we also have a new package, at least as far as the starting points are concerned, on the table, and then also on the marriage solutions, because we must continue to do so. We have received more warnings, we are aware of them – so by the Fiscal Council, including our own, I can say, even then, cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, and then the social partners, who, of course, have already committed themselves or have publicly said that they are ready for the next round of negotiations, as far as the pension conditions are concerned, regarding the stability of the system in the long term and the solution where we still need them. I'm sure there are some of the things you've mentioned to us many times, aspects of invalidity pensions and so on. These are all the things that we know are waiting for us, and we will have to bite into them in due course. Again, thank you for your express support, for your constructive criticism and all that you have said today. I look forward to continuing the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I take it it's an interest. If he also wishes to discuss the Government's representative, please also report by pressing the microphone switch. He'll get the last word. Please, for your application. Three reported. The first one gets the word Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u128	President, thank you for your word. I won't be long. I would also focus on the dual status of pensioners for a short time. With the unregulated dual status of pensioners, certain anomalies remain open. I would have warned you here on two. One relates to the area of private protection, where they have a lot of human resources problems. We all know that they are limited by legislation, for they cannot do their work there in any way but with regular employment, so it is not possible to do work within 60 or 90 hours of temporary or occasional work. Since there is no frame, I could do so, of course, by completing certain legal conditions, by the person who knows. They're retired cops, for example. At present, legislation and the situation are such that, at a given time, and as it seems in the future, they will not want to do so, because they should stop paying pensions and have to work regularly, which is unacceptable for them. If the remaining provision allowing the payment of 100 per cent of the pension after three years, many would opt for this work and thus the security agencies would no longer have as great a staffing problem as they have, and consequently the security of the people in the country would be better. However, even if a police officer who had fulfilled the conditions for obtaining the old-age pension referred to in Article 399 had resumed or continued to work, this bill would not have accounted for 40 % of his pension. Why? Because it doesn't belong to him today. We all know what the human resources problem is in the Slovenian police, not just there, but also with the law enforcement officers. The security situation in particular in the expected challenges that are coming and waiting for us both in protecting the state border and in protecting people and their property will be worse if we do not take care of the appropriate personnel. When police officers at 50 plus years of age have the conditions for retirement — and, of course, have the most knowledge and experience — and will retire, they will remain large gaps. Now that we have the opportunity to keep them in the ministry properly, we will not do so. I wonder why. If this novel truly encourages the extension of work activity, it certainly does not do so in police officers. The situation in the police regarding the receipt of 20% of the pension is uneven and uneven. Some who have met the conditions by 31. 12. 2015, they receive it, the others do not, until they meet the regular conditions for retirement. And here is the inequality between both the police and the outside. I don't know why they shouldn't have this part of their pension when they meet the first terms of their pension. In the past, the legislator has acknowledged their benefit for reasons of the complexity and responsibility of this profession, and there is no dilemma. However, if a person feels that he can continue to contribute to his knowledge and experience of maintaining security at the time of his arrival, he is also rewarded. That's why I support the activities that will bring these things together. Now we have an extraordinary opportunity to deal with the big problem with small action and to improve the human resources situation both in the police and in the justice police, because the situation is not pink there either, and not least, we are improving the security situation of the country. I therefore suggest that we all think this through. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The next five minutes are dedicated to the debate of Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you very much. In my position, of course, I presented New Slovenia's concerns about the proposal itself for this mini pension reform, but I will touch on the work that I have not seen in the proposal for pension reform. I would like to point out invalidity pensions that do not originate from the rights of occupational disease or injury at work. One lady wrote to me, and she wrote: “With the new Zpiz, among other things, the percentages are changing. The highest percentage for disability pension after illness is now only 57.25%, which I do not think is right, since I have 31 years of work and 40 years of age. I wonder if this dose percentage will change to at least 63.5%, such as disability pension after illness. I'm sorry the devil came to see me, too. I believe that the difference between occupational and invalidity pensions by disease, which is limited and professionally unlimited, should not be. I wish you all the best." In short, I'm talking about that for people who are disabled because of a disease that has been affected not by their own will, not by their own desire, simply in this mini-retirement reform, as far as I can tell, doesn't change anything. Of course you'll fix me. Here is another letter in which people with disabilities say that in the future the situation will improve slightly to newly retired persons by increasing the dose rate. “What about those who have already retired? Nothing will change for you, they will still live with low pensions. The resolution of low pensions through social transfers, such as a protective allowance, is not possible under the current legislation." And he's given his case, which I'm not going to talk about right now, but I can give you a look at how and what might be helpful. In short, people with disabilities who are incapacitated or forced to go to a disability pension. Last but not least, I have to mention low-income pensions. Nothing has been mentioned about them either, that something will change for the farmers of the pension in this mini-retirement reform. I think we need to see why. I know that there was a greater scope of rights, a lower scope of rights, but I think that we all need so much normal resources for our survival, or how to say it. It is entirely justified to listen when I go to Slovenia, which farmer who says at the age of 70 or 45 at the hard farm work, see, my pension is 245 or 265, the neighbour's mule, 24 years old, who hasn't worked for another year, can't do anything, but gets 400 cash social assistance and something else. That's actually a felony. If we are correcting the matter, perhaps – of course you will say that little is what it is, in the budget is the money planned so much, but it is also necessary to consider those people who actually cannot survive with 240 euros. And the disabled by disease, I know, were and were with pension reform if I'm not mistaken 2012, out of the way. It seems to me that the situation in society is such that it is only necessary to consider these persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The last five minutes at this point belong to Franco Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u132	Mr. Vice President, it won't take five minutes. Given that I did not have a chance to give a brief replica to the Secretary of State before – I would like to remind you when you talk about coordination, that you are using this term specifically, because pension growth will not grow through what is being coordinated, but just as much as they need to be coordinated. But we do know that there is a formula of 40-60 or 60-40 based on cost-of-living growth and based on what we know. At the end of the day, there will also be extraordinary coordination. This extraordinary coordination must be because the pensioner state simply owes 5.6% more, and this must be coordinated in the near future. I know it's easy to talk, it's harder to provide finance, but what pensioners gave in times of crisis they have to get. We'll just have to look for options. And we are looking for these options with extraordinary coordination. Not that we say so, but now there must be at least 3% economic growth, as long as we have economic growth.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is appropriate for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 29 October 2019 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the regulation of the market. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, the 43 Members and Members of Parliament, with their first signed Branet Golubovic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Tiln Bozic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u134	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Again, thank you for the opportunity for today's debate on this subject. - We are talking about the Labour Market Regulation Act, namely the amendment of this. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has drawn up a proposal for amendments to the law. We have acceded to this change on the basis of the objectives set out in the coalition agreement, as well as an analysis of the situation in the field of labour market regulation. As a sector ministry, we are pleased to note that the consensus of the social partners has been reached on most of the proposals that encourage greater integration of workers and also older people into the labour market and that provide for measures to activate the unemployed as quickly as possible, precisely so that our employment agency can work more effectively, activate and help people as quickly as possible. Since it is certainly one of the findings that longer than anyone is faced with the situation that he is in the institution, that he has no employment, contact with work and so on, are worse off, there is a greater likelihood of being found in an unenviable spiral, from which it is very difficult to find a way out. The main amendments to this law foresee an increase in the minimum amount of monetary compensation, according to the current €350 gross to around €530 gross. We anticipate that this will slightly increase the social security of the unemployed at the time of receiving this compensation. From here on, we are also talking about an increase in the minimum insurance period for the recognition of the right to monetary compensation. Otherwise, with a one-year delay, it would be considered that the minimum density for someone to receive unemployment compensation is 10 months, instead of the current nine months. We have found that many activities, which have a strong seasonal component, are said to have usually developed in winter more than they do, developed certain business models, which assume that someone is working for about nine months, then is in the institution for three months and re-employed with the same employer. This is how the system is used for easier business, and the system was not designed to do so. We therefore anticipate another initiative, which we hope you will have on the table in the short term or in due course, which is an improvement in the law governing employment records, so that we will take a few steps further there, which will allow the work to be properly documented. And, of course, later also that it will be properly paid. From here on out, appropriate supervision may be possible. From here on, we are talking about changing the conditions of the necessary age and insurance age in determining the duration of the pension for the elderly, i.e. those who are entitled to up to 19 months or up to 25 months of remuneration at the Employment Service. There, through analysis or verification, we have identified some problems, and we are now slightly adapting the conditions in a way that we estimate will be more effective and more suitable to achieve the objectives we have, in terms of activation. From here on, the implementation of a specific action for activation. This one changes slightly. So far, those who had been employed before the period for which they had been granted compensation had to, so to speak, conclude an agreement with the institution, receive those funds. We found that there were problems there, so we prepared a smaller simplification there so that someone could decide whether or not to receive those funds. Last but not least, with regard to the integration of foreign unemployed persons, which are currently thousands in the institution, we have some problems because we fail to ensure their inclusion in the active employment policy, which is primarily in the Slovenian language. We also have a problem with the fact that little is less interesting for employers because they do not know the language. Here we promise that just by providing these courses and exams, we will allow them to be easier, so quickly, to be reintegrated into the labour market. You can also expect some other improvements. At this session, we hope that you will support us by making the law suitable for further consideration. We estimate that the solutions are good, positive, but of course it is up to us to convince you of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Soniboj Knezak will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u136	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Risk insurance in the event of unemployment, based on the social democratic principles of social solidarity, is one of the key rights of workers. The purpose of insurance is to provide an adequate standard of living for workers even when they are out of work and to help them find a new job as soon as possible. The Social Democrats therefore support all those active employment policy measures that contribute to faster employment of unemployed workers for adequate pay. We have already stressed in previous positions that many studies have shown that the pitfalls of unemployment are large. Unemployment has worsened the quality of life, especially in young people who have just lost knowledge quickly if they do not use it. As a result of the prolonged transition to a period of employment, young people lose their personal and social identity. Unemployment can lead to various health problems, can lead to a decline in self-confidence, a reduction in material and social self-image. As long as the person is unemployed, he has major financial problems, social interactions are reduced, the person is closing down and becoming more apathetic. This brings us to some vicious circle of poverty. Social activation and effective assistance are therefore crucial here for faster employment of the unemployed. Social Democrats believe that the amendment of the Labour Market Regulation Law contains appropriate answers to the above-exposed unemployment traps, as it foresees faster activation of the working population, increases the working activity of older people, limits the pecuniary employment and increases the social security of recipients of unemployment benefits by increasing the minimum wage for unemployment from € 350 to €530. In addition, the proposal foresees a new measure which will encourage the employment and integration of foreign people who do not have the knowledge of the Slovenian language, as language ignorance makes it difficult to activate these persons and to integrate them into the Slovenian labour market. The fact that the unemployed person speaks Slovenian at least at the basic level is also a condition that the personal employment adviser at the employment institution can provide her with adequate assistance and treatment. If the unemployed person does not perform a basic examination of the Slovenian language within 12 months of entering the institution, it will be deleted from the unemployment register, thereby also losing the right to financial social assistance. In our Group of Members, we believe that this is a suitable measure, which at least partially addresses the problem of faster employment of unemployed foreigners and their integration into Slovenian society. These amendments to the law are proposed and coordinated in social dialogue with the social partners, which is crucial for the Social Democrats. We believe that the proposed solutions are good and will contribute to greater and, above all, faster employability of the unemployed, so we will support the proposed changes to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The labour market is a living matter that has to adapt to the environment in which it operates. It is reasonable and necessary that these circumstances be followed by measures of the State, both legislative and all others, ensuring the implementation of the employment policy, preserving and enhancing the safety of job seekers, in particular unemployed persons and search engines whose employment is at risk. Of course, employment policy must follow the constitutional principle of free choice of profession, consistent with individual competences and employment opportunities, and achieve the highest possible level of employment. The labour market in Slovenia has experienced many changes over the past two decades. The current situation is marked by record low unemployment, high employment rates and still relatively favourable macroeconomic indicators, which also have a significant impact on the labour market. At the same time, we are facing an increasingly low share of the active population; we are at the bottom of the employment and work activities of older workers. The demographic picture of the population is alarming. We come into the labour market too late and leave it too soon. The challenges of this are here today. In addition to ageing, account should be taken of the sustainability of the pension system and, on the other hand, the need for the labour market with increasing economic growth. That is why we must strive to keep older people in the labour market and at the same time make sure that all generations can coexist well. The new Labour Market Regulation Act, which is before us today, addresses all these issues and tries to translate them into a legislative framework. The proposed amendments follow faster activation of the working population, including faster activation and integration of foreign unemployed persons, greater social security of the recipients of monetary compensation, as the minimum level will be comparable to those of social protection, better management of temporary and occasional work of pensioners, and also taking into account some of the recommendations of the Ombudsman. This is, therefore, trying to follow the key challenges already affecting the labour market today and will be even more so in the future, and we are being directed by our wider environment in which we live. All the changes and additions have been repeatedly pre-diagnosed and coordinated within the social dialogue and the Economic and Social Council has turned on the light of green light on the slow changes. This is proof that social dialogue in coordinating the content of the labour market is still very important, and above all that it is not negligible, as some have voiced loudly in recent months. Of course, today, and in all subsequent stages of the legislative process, will be the time and place for a wider parliamentary debate on the proposed amendments. In the SMC Group, we want this to be as constructive as possible. We support the proposed amendments and we will vote that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Miha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Once you have adopted this law, you will boast in a loud voice for years that you have raised the lowest compensation for unemployment. Reimbursement which has not been raised since 2011. You will raise it from 350 to 530 euros gross or from the shameful 274 euros to about 400 euros net. But no one in this country can survive with 400 euros. This is an empirical fact also demonstrated by the Institute of Economic Research study 2017. That's why you have no reason to blink too hard on your shoulders. You did not raise this compensation in the SDS in 2012-2013. Nor did Alenka Bratušek raise him, nor was she willing to raise up the government that was leading her to SMC in four years of rule. That's why the current raise is welcome, but it's not a gift. It is a debt to the unemployed who, despite this law, will not be paid in full. The compensation, which will now amount to about the amount of social assistance for a single person, will still not be high enough to ensure that a worker is protected from falling into poverty when he loses his job. The minimum cost of living in 2017 is EUR 613. The proposed amount is therefore even lower than the short-term minimum cost of living, which is said to be lower than EUR 442 and to compensate for the right to work, the right to unemployment insurance. What kind of insurance is this if it does not cover the minimum short-term cost of living? What kind of unemployment insurance, if it doesn't protect you from anything, at least before you fall into poverty? The compensation as a right of work, non-social transfer, should be at least EUR 613, which is as much as the currently calculated minimum cost of living, and not a single euro less. I would expect Members who, in the context of the abolition of the unemployment allowance and the criticism of the amount of social assistance and when always talking about the difference between income from work and between social transfers, do not advocate this compensation for unemployment, which, I repeat, is a right from work, not a social transfer, do not advocate compensation for unemployment at the same level as the basic social assistance for a single person. By the way, on this subject, you lied and deceived yourself again yesterday when you advocated a measure that would help 24 thousand and a few people, of which thousands of children from working families, significantly reduce or eliminate social assistance. When you advocate lowering social assistance, you stress, however, that social transfers are dangerously close to work-related expenditure. Well, today it is proposed and supported to raise the money for unemployment, which, once again, is the third time, the right from work and not social transfer, to the level of social assistance. No more! Reimbursement after nine years at the level of social assistance is not sufficient, but remains the only bright point of this law. Everything else is worse. This increase in unemployment benefits serves as a pianist smoke screen for all other provisions that change and tend to exacerbate job seekers. This smoke screen is cheap before. The financial implications for the budget for 2020 are estimated at €2.3 million, and for the next three years expenditure from the budget is projected to be reduced. It's cheap because it's all about making things worse, not improving the situation of workers and unemployed people. This law limits the level of beneficiaries to compensation, introduces new repressive measures, weakens the situation of pensioners and older workers, and reduces fines for employers. This law introduces repressive measures against people from third countries if I start criticizing the amended provisions in this most pressing topic. These people will be erased from the unemployment register if they do not learn Slovenian within one year. If they are deleted from the unemployment register, they also lose the right to social security. But watch out! People working in this country, regardless of which countries originally come from, contribute equally to Slovenia's treasury. In short, ladies and gentlemen, when you or your capitalist friends need cheap labour for paid work, the Ministry of the Economy is looking for workers on the other side of the world. Yesterday we were able to read, even in the Philippines, because for the situation with the average Slovenian capitalist neither the Bosnians want to work anymore, neither Romanians nor Bulgarians, you are looking for them, these workers, in the Philippines. God forbid we force Slovenian capitalists to raise their wages! In short, when it comes to the search and import of labour for underpaid work, you are not interested in whether someone who comes to work here speaks Slovenian or not. You don't give a shit. However, when this man, the same person, wants to exercise his right in the institution to register unemployed persons, then his knowledge of the Slovenian language is suddenly extremely important. All of a sudden! Slovenia should enable everyone to learn Slovenian at work. Everyone. By imposing this on employers to ensure this also at their own expense. In addition, this measure is additionally discriminatory for workers from third countries, so that the condition of inclusion in the employment searcher's register will not apply to workers from European Union countries unless the same workers also speak Slovenian. This dual treatment means one thing and only one thing; the government would like to take advantage of the workers from the global south at the time of the conjuncture, which would bring them here by buses and trains, and by the time it creaks, and today, ladies and gentlemen, it poses obstacles that these people will find it as difficult to obtain adequate social protection, I repeat, even though they work here and pay their unemployment insurance. The repression is not saved by everyone else. According to the new legislation, the Employment Office will have the right to confirm the content of the employment plan despite the non-compliance of jobseekers with the decision. Together with this, the criteria for erasure of jobseekers and thus the loss of the right to social protection shall be strengthened. If someone refuses to participate in an active employment policy programme or in any way violates obligations, it will be deleted from the unemployment register at the time of the first breach of obligations. Now, in the current regime, the unemployed are allowed at least once to refuse the job offered and that they can do so and hope for a better offer if certain works are obtained on the table, which are clearly, harshly and excessively exploitative. Well, this law further exacerbates the situation of a subordinate worker or job seeker. He leaves the job seeker to the mercy and mercy of the institution. All they get on the table is: take it or leave it. Work here, at this and this employer, no matter how shameful the working conditions are offered to you, or die. You don't have a third alternative! You don't have a way out of this situation! The law prolongs the insurance period for the recognition of the right to monetary compensation, which is the following issue. This reinforces the basic condition for the acquisition of this right. The current regulation states that a person must be insured in the last 24 months for at least 9 months. This limit rises to 10 months. However, in the original, if we remember, the ministry proposed raising this condition to one year. In translation, this simply means that people will have to work longer to be eligible for unemployment benefits. Comparison: parliamentary function. Members from virtually all parliamentary groups, almost non-discriminatory, wanted compensation for the loss of office or for unemployment to themselves after the first day. For you, ladies and gentlemen, after one day and for the rest after one year – or how? [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u141	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u142	The Ministry's argument for a longer period of insurance is the prevention of fines. No offense, but this is almost as stupid an argument as the one we could have listened to yesterday that the anti-piercing measure is to reduce social assistance for 24,000 people. Pocket work is limited by the repression of employers over a large number of inspectors, by improving the working conditions of these inspectors, by allowing the labour inspectorate to become more competent, and by legally restricting the use of the worst forms of penitential work in order to encourage forms of penitentiary work for employers. What the government is doing — none of it! The government would, in its own way, restrict its discretion by violating labour and social rights. That someone would be further suppressed to the point that he would have to accept even more shameful employment, even more unworthy pay, even more difficult working conditions. In short, this law would limit penance in a way that encourages chastity. Bravo! Although an article setting out the minimum hourly rate for the work of pensioners is open, this minimum hourly rate for pensioners does not increase. This remains on the disgraceful 4,76 gross, which is significantly less, say, than students get. On the other hand, this law also increases the exploitation of the work of pensioners. On the initiative of employers, the number of hours each pensioner can spend within one month is increasing. Similarly, employers who exploit more than a hundred workers will be allowed to increase the number of monthly working hours of pensioners from a thousand hours to a thousand 500 hours. However, large capitalists who exploit more than 2,000 workers will be allowed to take advantage of another 3,000 750 hours of work for pensioners or 2,000 700 more hours than is currently in force. For infringements in this area, the fines for employers are also changing and moving from fixed amounts to ranges. Translation: With the changed regime of the fines imposed, this fine is reduced by about 500 euros for employers. And they get extra discounts on capitalists, little exploiters. These will be able to pay up to EUR 1,000 500 lower than today for the illegal exploitation of pensioners. We can't support such a law in Levica if I say nice. He'll probably be moving on to the hearing. Here we intend to actively participate by increasing the minimum compensation to at least the minimum cost of living and by removing all measures that reduce the rights of workers and the unemployed and in this law from the proposal. All bad things should fly out, preserve and improve those good ones who are set up in marriage or that one good, that is, raising the amount of unemployment compensation that is open in this law. I see no reason not to do so, except for the reason of the lack of political will, which disproportionately gravitates against employers in this National Assembly, but not against workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Your Honor! By addressing the proposal for amendments to the Labour Market Regulation Act, we have received a comprehensive package of proposals for action to be considered and decided. Let us first stress that now that the situation on the Slovenian labour market is favourable is the right time to introduce changes. In New Slovenia we believe that these changes must go in the direction of flexibility, but not on a security account. Today the Slovenian labour market is relatively safe, but it is certainly not flexible enough. This is an even more important conclusion in the light of the projected economic trends. We are confident that no employer will forgive a good worker, but surely every employer wants to forgive a bad worker. Labour law must give employers more room for manoeuvre in case of dissatisfaction with the worker, but at the same time offer workers a high level of safety. In many discussions with the social partners, we agreed that the labour legislation in Slovenia is too extensive, too complex and completely incomprehensible, and does not actually offer security on paper. Such a situation makes it possible to play and abuse, which is unacceptable, and therefore it is necessary to simplify labour legislation in such a way as to provide adequate security for employees in practice. The concrete novel contains a number of proposals for solutions, which we mostly support. For third-country nationals, an additional requirement for the knowledge of Slovenian language at A1 level is introduced for keeping or entering the register of unemployed persons. There is also an exception to the current general rule that a pensioner may perform a maximum of 60 hours of temporary or occasional work in a single calendar month. The pensioner will be able to carry out such work up to a maximum of 90 hours after the new calendar month, but not more than 3 times in the calendar year, with the number of hours a pensioner may perform remaining unchanged. This seems to be a step in the right direction. It is possible for parents, at the time of registration of unemployed persons, to be counted in the period of unemployment for inclusion in active employment policies before receiving their maternity, paternity or parental compensation in the event of their re-entry into the unemployment register after the expiry of that compensation. Probably the most important and media-intensive proposal is to raise the minimum wage from the EUR 350 in force to EUR 530.19, which will make it comparable to social protection rights. There is likely to be a slight increase in the conditions for obtaining the right to compensation in the case of unemployment. In New Slovenia we see a proposal for changes as an attempt to encourage people to do as much as possible in the labour market, to be flexible, but not at the expense of security. We believe that proposals are going in the right direction, so we will support them at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Labour Market Regulation Act has been adopted and is being amended with a clear aim to ensure greater social security for the unemployed and more effective measures to protect them. At the same time, this law increases the effectiveness of active employment policies and reduces the administrative burden on businesses and people in the labour market. The Labour Market Regulation Act was adopted in 2010 as a response to a crisis that has affected a large number of people and claimed its tax mainly in the field of employment. As we know, working with us is a high value that gives people meaning to action, satisfaction, and way of life. Being unemployed brings bad consequences, a fall in financial and creative abilities, a fall in confidence, exclusion from society and often problems in families. Social society and the social state are here to assist these individuals in solving unemployment and related negative consequences. The transition from unemployment to employment is usually difficult and long-term, so the country is helping the unemployed with active employment policy measures and providing them with training, education and employment programmes. The left share is the so-called active employment policy or set of measures in the labour market. These aim to increase employment, reduce unemployment, increase the employability of people, increase the competitiveness and flexibility of employers. Active employment policies provide an opportunity to adapt measures to rapid changes and rapid changes in labour market needs. The proposal for amendments follows a number of objectives. The working population wants to activate faster, increase the employment of older people, limit penitentiary employment and ensure greater social security for recipients of cash benefits in the case of unemployment. The proposal for a law will increase the minimum amount of monetary compensation and the insurance period for the recognition of the right to such compensation. The conditions of age and insurance are also changing, depending on how long the elderly will receive a financial compensation. In addition to that proposal, it introduces a measure aimed at activating the integration of foreign unemployed persons without the knowledge of the Slovenian language. Later, such persons are required to learn Slovenian language at A1 level. The lack of knowledge of the Slovenian language makes it difficult or even impossible for unemployed people to be effectively integrated into the Slovenian labour market. Currently, foreign unemployed persons at the Employment Office can be included in courses and examinations from the Slovenian language, which impose measures of active employment policies. However, since this decision is optional and the subject of an agreement between an unemployed person and his adviser, very few unemployed persons are decided on it. The bill further regulates how to sanction unemployed persons and encourage the employment of low- and secondary-educational persons. The novel also follows the proposed amendments to the temporary or occasional work of pensioners, which enabled employers to be more predictable in their operations and facilitate the organisation of work. In the SAB Group, we have considered the bill well. We believe that the solutions are appropriate and therefore our support is not questionable. Nevertheless, we are again proposing improvements to the new article 60 of the Act in question, which we have already submitted to the Ministry of Labour at the time of public hearing. Allow me to present our proposal again. In the SAB we propose that both paragraphs of article 60 of the bill remain in law. It is only necessary to add a sanction for an employer who does not notify the employer of the obligation to register jobseekers as an offence or provision that the difference between full remuneration and full remuneration is the responsibility of the employer and not the institution. As it is said, this is the case if the employer waives his or her legal obligation to inform the worker that he or she is obliged to report to the employment prospectors within three working days. All of this should be taken into account and added to the draft law. It is not right for the employer to be left without consequences if he fails to comply with his or her legal obligations. The other amendments to the law will be supported by the SAB Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Secretary of State with a team, colleagues and colleagues! The Government has adopted a proposal to amend the pension law and labour market legislation to address the problem of low working activities of older workers. These are solutions that respond to the challenges of demographic trends, such as population ageing, the low level of employment of older people, the general situation in the labour market, which appears to be a labour shortage, and not least to improve the social security of vulnerable groups. At the previous point, we have already talked about measures that respond to the above-mentioned challenges. The proposed solutions to this law are also intended in one part to respond more effectively to the labour market situation and to extend the work activities of older people. Other amendments and additions to the proposal are intended to improve the social security of recipients of the lowest monetary compensation, the activation and integration of foreign unemployed persons who do not have the knowledge of the Slovenian language, the modernisation of the temporary and occasional work of pensioners, the regulation of sanctioning non-compliance with the obligations of the active search for employment and the beneficiaries of the compensation, and in the field of the aforementioned work of pensioners. The increase in the minimum unemployment allowance of €180 gross follows an increase in the basic amount of the minimum income. This provides the beneficiaries of the lowest compensation with higher social security and will be able to take sides with all those unemployed who receive the maximum amount of financial assistance without an allowance for employment. In addition, it is somehow illogical that the ceiling of the compensation, which today amounts to €892, in relation to monetary social assistance and also to the new lower limit of monetary compensation, is not appropriate, since this right is, last but not least, for the payment of wage-dependent contributions and financial social assistance is purely a social transfer. That would be our comment or reflection. The view of the Desus Group on measures to increase the density of the insurance age and to increase the age limit in older workers is also not entirely identical with the opinion of the applicant proposing the measure for the reason of the abuse of compensation. The escape of older workers who are just before retirement to the institution is not always uniformly related to the assumption that the worker would rather retire to the stock market rather than spend the full time until retirement. We agree that there are some such cases when there is an agreement between the employer and the worker, as such cases are known to us. But there are other cases where a worker wants to work, and the employer simply forgives him. It is also important to ask where the reasons are for a worker to agree to a soft solution and go to the stock market, realizing that the remuneration is likely to be much lower than the wages. One of them is sure that jobs for the elderly are not adapted and the latter cannot work at the rate or intensity expected by the employers. Measures taken by employers under the Labour Market Intervention Measures Act to encourage employers to employ unemployed persons over 55 years of age, and this law expires at the end of this year. That is why, by the way, I am interested in the Secretary-General, whether you may have information on how many people this measure has saved unemployment in these last years. In view of the re-entry into force of Article 156 of the ZPIZ, which sends employers with a 30% exemption from the payment of contributions for those over 60 years of age or 50 % of co-financing by the State for those who already have pension conditions. It is clear that the positive measures for the group of older workers referred to in this proposal will no longer be taken as the conditions for obtaining the right to retirement are tightened. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we propose a greater positive attitude towards taking care of older employees, so that they will be dealt with safely and appropriately during the working relationship and also in the situation where they lose their jobs. Measures should encourage older people to stay at work to be able to carry out their work in order to be adopted in their environment and, of course, to pay employers to maintain their working relationship. As regards proposals relating to the temporary and occasional work of pensioners, I should like to express my appreciation by the Desus Group, as this form of work adapts to the needs of pensioners and also follows the needs of workers of this type. It would already make sense to slightly increase the quota of hours in general terms and to leave the cap on earnings. We also agree that it is inevitably necessary and justifiable for foreigners who seek the possibility of survival and social security in our country to require at least the basic knowledge of our language. Integrating in the working environment without this is almost impossible. We also consider it a sensible solution, which is envisaged with regard to sanctioning recipients of unemployment benefits and introducing better opportunities for parents to recognise rights to engage in active employment policies. In other words, the law foresees some other amendments and improvements that we consider appropriate in our Group of Members. The general debate on the law is certainly welcome, although the proposal is coordinated in the Economic and Social Council and is supported by both trade unions and employers, today's debate can answer a number of open questions and dilemmas that have been or will be exposed. Otherwise, the proposal is worth further legislative consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u150	Good-bye, everybody! The law is bad, even though it regulates some changes. In our Slovenia, there are increasing numbers of Shiptars and migrants, in short, third-country nationals who are not members of the EU or the EEA. Everyone would want as many social transfers as possible from our benevolent country, state aid without any effort, language skills. For, as we know, the women of Shiptar walk only on coffee and walk in the cities: the children are in school or in kindergartens, and the men earn money for the whole family. And this is not in Slovenia, but in Austria, Germany, but of course families are registered in Slovenia. They can't say a word of Slovenian, but they have the opportunity to take courses and make exams from the Slovenian language, but there is no real interest in that. In schools and in kindergartens they already require translators, and they also go to a doctor with a translator. Finally, we have a bill on the table that sets out the requirement for more effective integration of foreigners into the labour market for the entry knowledge of Slovenian language at A1 level, which is the only right thing for our country to move away. But if they get a job, it's another song. For let us first take care of our citizens and citizens, I repeat, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, then foreigners. It is a good example, for example, of the Netherlands, Austria, where they condition the acquisition of a social security allowance with language skills or make them reduce if they do not know their language. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that if you do not want to learn our language and speak nicely, go where you came from, and do not use our tax money. We too, if we are to go to other countries, must learn at least English — speak of course — so that we can drink or sing. If we go to Germany, Austria and order Slovenian, believe us, we will be hungry and thirsty. The extension of the work activities of the elderly is welcome for those who work mentally or have the will to work, since a new pensioner will be able to perform up to 90 hours of temporary or occasional work in a single calendar year. According to the new legislation, insurance for the recognition of the right to a financial compensation in the case of unemployment will have to obtain an insurance period of 9 to 10 months in the last 24 months. As we have had so far, our neighbour Croatia has arranged. However, better working conditions for employers have an impact on higher working activity and restriction of the leeway. It is unwise to delete the penalty in the form of a reduction in the monetary compensation by 30 per cent for persons who, after the termination of the employment contract within three days, are not registered in the register of jobseekers. Why didn't the last one in the scratch come to life? I don't know; maybe because everyone would resist it. For the activation of older unemployed persons, the conditions are changing, so receiving a 19-month cash refund is provided for insured persons over 53 years of age, while meeting the conditions of insurance over 25 years of age. The minimum amount of cash compensation for unemployment has also been generously increased from EUR 350 to EUR 530 and several cents. However, we believe that the imbalance between the latter and the minimum wage must also be settled. Two-step sanctioning shall be maintained in the event that the unemployed person is not an active job seeker and in other cases the person will cease to be kept in the register of unemployed persons at the time of the first breach of an obligation, where I only hope that this will be taken into account as necessary and that the infringement will not occur. The fines or penalties for offences are unreasonable or unnecessary. For example, in the wine law, in the woods and so on. However, if necessary, they should be set within the range for infringements of the restrictions on the performance of the temporary and occasional part of the pensioners. In the following year, an increase in budget expenditure is foreseen to remedy the situation, and then a reduction in expenditure is foreseen, since we will again be in debt with guarantees. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe that the law makes certain smart moves that will undoubtedly benefit our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Marijan Pojbič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u152	Your Honor! Today we are considering a proposal for a government law amending and supplementing the Labour Market Regulation Act, which proposes a number of amendments. As the main or most important changes, the Government proposes to increase the minimum amount of monetary compensation, to increase the insurance period for the recognition of the right to financial compensation, and to change the age and insurance conditions on which it depends on the determination of the duration of the financial compensation for older unemployed persons. The proposal therefore raises the amount of the lowest monetary compensation, which is in fact based on contributions paid to insurance by workers. However, the proposal does not change the relationship between the lowest and the highest compensation for unemployment. Consequently, the proposed amendment will only reflect to a small extent the actual differences in payments between the beneficiaries in the period before their obligation arises. The duration of insurance coverage shall be extended from 9 to 10 months in the last 24 months prior to the occurrence of unemployment. In fact, such a proposal strengthens proposals for compensation and reduces the social security of workers who work in multiple forms of employment. The social security of older workers, which the employer cancels, is also deteriorating as the proposed amendment raises the age limit for accepting monetary compensation. In the context of the amendments submitted, we welcome the proposal or measure to ensure that the basic level of knowledge of the Slovenian language is ensured as a condition for the inclusion of the unemployed alien in the labour market. It is also true that when preparing the marriage text, the Ombudsman’s warnings were taken into account after regulating or appreciating unemployment status for those who benefit from maternity, paternity or parental leave. But the fact is that, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we find that the proposal for government amendments to the Labour Market Regulation Act, despite some steps in the right direction on the other hand, also significantly improves the access of workers to unemployment rights or their scope and thus their social security. Therefore, in the light of all the above, we cannot support the Government proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you very much. We have a last position, namely the position of the Marjan Šarca Group, presented by Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u154	Good day for the last time in this position. For years, Slovenia, as well as most European countries, has been facing a marked shortage of labour. That's kind of clear. This is due to those positive changes, i.e. economic growth, the start-up of the Slovenian economy, which, at this point in time, often cannot follow the demand for labour, since under-employment cannot increase production capacity or services. Some countries have largely solved this problem by importing workers, but it is right and fair that work is primarily provided to our domestic people. The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Market Regulation, which is before us, aims to achieve a number of positive effects through a combination of different measures. Faster activation of the working population, longer working activities of older people, restricting the criminal employment and ensuring a higher level of social security for recipients of financial compensation in the case of unemployment. It should also be stressed that the law has been harmonised and endorsed in the Economic and Social Council. Let me list some of the most important concrete measures that this law envisages. First of all, the minimum amount of cash compensation for unemployment increases to EUR 530. This also fulfils the commitment under the coalition agreement. For third-country nationals, countries of the European Union, the EEA and the Swiss Confederation, a requirement is introduced for knowledge of the Slovenian language at A1 level, which, although it may sound contradictory, may be facilitated in the integration into the labour market. In most cases, employers require at least a basic understanding of the Slovenian language, which is somewhat understandable. Let me stress that employment agencies have already offered courses and exams in the Slovenian language to unemployed people, but so far they have been decided on a voluntary basis by relatively few unemployed people. This lack of language was one of the main reasons why 40 percent of them were long - term unemployed. Like the third time. The law also regulates the temporary and occasional work of pensioners. Despite the fact that the number of hours a pensioner may spend within one year remains unchanged, greater flexibility and concentration of work is allowed. During each month, pensioners will be able to do so again up to 90 hours of work, but not more than three times in one year. This will allow them to be more actively involved in the work process in the so-called peaks of the production or service process or in the most intensive work and demand season, if you wish. There is also a change in the system of fines for infringements of the restrictions on such work, which will no longer be fixed, but will be set within a certain range. Fourth time. Persons who fulfil the conditions for obtaining the right to an old age and occupational pension will no longer be entitled to a financial compensation. The new situation will also make it easier for the parents. During the period of unemployment required for inclusion in active employment policy measures, the time of entry into the unemployment register before receiving the maternity, paternity or parental compensation will be re-registered once these benefits have expired. Six. There will be an increase in the insurance period for the recognition of the right to receive a three-month allowance, from 9 months to 10 months. This reduces, in particular, the possibility and attractiveness of speculative serial employment with the same employer and for a certain period of time, with three-month interruptions which have deteriorated in some economic sectors, unfortunately, as a severely poor business practice which seriously endangers the social security of people in such working relationships. The problems just mentioned and the replacing of these are, after all, affected by the following measure. According to the new report, only the recipient of the cash refund, who will be employed by another employer and not by those who have been employed before or associated with unemployment, will be entitled to continue paying the incentive of 20 per cent of the cash refund. As an eighth time, the way of sanctioning infringements against unemployed persons will also change. Two-stage sanctioning will be maintained if the unemployed person is not an active job seeker. In cases of breach of the obligation or refusal of inclusion in the active employment policy, the person will cease to be kept in the register of unemployed persons at the time of the first infringement and not only in the event of repeated infringements. Therefore, the first infringement of the obligation will be slightly less than it has been so far, as it will only last for two months and not permanently. This ensures greater seriousness and involvement of persons who are or are supposed to be active job seekers and also receive certain compensation from this address. However, lastly, a reduction of 30 per cent for persons who do not register as jobseekers within three days of their resignation, as this measure has in practice not yet had the desired effect, will be abolished. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we are still working to ensure a decent life and work for all and, in particular, to reduce the rate of poverty. Therefore, we will also support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Labour Market Regulation Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and Members on the proposal for a law. First, the Secretary of State made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u156	First of all, thank you for the introductory responses of the parliamentary groups. It's definitely a rather difficult matter. Even when we read or break through these articles, how they work, or how they put it into practice, it is not easy. Really, I must admit, I am glad that you have deepened into this so much that, to a large extent, all these contours of the solution have been hit, you have identified yourself well. In some situations, it may have been the only thing that was a little less understood, but above all, it would have been an attempt to explain further. The first case, it is said, the first position, which was presented, has raised several points, this was by the Left Group. It is said, in this sense, that it is a right from work and not a social transfer. This is when we talk about compensation, the amount of compensation. Otherwise, in some ways, I am already slowly accustomed to proposing anything is not the best, and in this case, a rise in compensation is not appropriate. Okay. However, one thing in this regard should be said when it is said that the right is labour and not social transfer. When we watched how this institution works, it is also said that unemployment insurance is paid, it has been found that it is indeed insurance on the one hand and, on the other hand, we are collecting about 40 million euros with insurance, and we are paying it at an annual level of 160 million now that it is good times. When the times are worse, these figures are significantly higher and this can also happen, roughly, if we look at what's collected from insurance, we can go up to a quarter, a fifth, a sixth of the funds raised, everything else is, in fact, money from the budget, which is social transfer by content. No, in form, we say it's insurance. For this reason, there is also a justification why we have raised only the lower limit, why not the upper limit. Since, in fact, according to the means to be paid and the income that is secured, this income is not secured, because we have to add very much from the state budget. I expect that in the coming years a thorough discussion will also have to take place on how this institution is designed or achieves what we wanted. That is to say, the actual provision of some social security at the time of receiving the compensation. At that time, we will also need to discuss where the means for doing so come from. So whether an example of contributions or some kind of insurance is appropriate in this way, that percentage should be raised, maybe let go, maybe cut off, and only provided from the budget, because in the way it is now designed, it is somewhat awkward. However, it is certainly one thing which was also then said, related to the demand for knowledge of the Slovenian language. I have to make a special point here – someone can apply, it says, is registered as a unemployed person, is receiving all services, including compensation, and from then on, the 12-month period in which the state provides him with a free Slovenian language course and then a free examination approach. Here I find it difficult to agree that we are going to take some repressive measures, but there is a year of time, but when someone applies, we can call it an active job seeker. Our assessment is that as part of these efforts to obtain a job or a new job, it is also entirely appropriate to pass a test, a course that will help him. It is precisely foreign language that is a problem because it is not possible then to include or at least not so qualitatively in active employment policy measures, difficult even in any other course, whether it will be a test for the truck, will be a test for the forklifter, maybe some knowledge, some new skills and so on. It is said, for each of these things, not least for safety and health at work, which is very important that someone can do in a safe way the work he has decided to do. So it's about things where this language always helps. From our point of view, when we look at the demand from employers, it is also important for the employer in very many professions that someone can speak Slovenian because we also have the Law on the Use of Slovenian Language, and in certain professions it is not possible to do this work if you do not know at least a few basic words of the Slovenian language. These are more or less all those professions, either in the public or in the private sector when there is contact with the parties. You can work in a store, maybe in a hotel, at reception, anywhere, you can also work harder, of course. Very often this is a condition and if there is no basic effort – and we think that one year is a reasonable time, given that it is indeed a level A1, it is purely basic knowledge. So you can go to the store, sort of make a deal, order something, and so on. We estimate that this is a reasonable period, and that at that time, indeed, if someone is looking for an active job, he will also spend some time doing such a course, which can certainly improve his prospects in the long term, both to further gain experience, knowledge and so on, which can be obtained through certain courses, as well as to then gain employment. It has also been mentioned in some way, as far as European countries are concerned, why we are focusing so much or why this condition is particularly for those from third countries. First, if we look at the data we have, those from the European Union area, the number of those who are at the Employment Institute and do not know the Slovenian language is relatively low. Those from third countries say these numbers go into thousands, which means they represent an area where there is a challenge. Secondly, European legislation for Europe, if I say so, implies that there should be no restriction here. The other European countries – two of them mentioned earlier – both the Netherlands and Austria – have done this slightly more sophisticatedly, so they have not regulated this in the area of employment, because there is special protection and they have decided to go to the part where there are social transfers. That is to say, if anyone would possibly like to be entitled to a social transfer if he does not prove that he knows the language at the appropriate level, this transfer is not justified. We do not propose such draconian measures, nor do we intend to propose them, but we are going in another direction. This is in fact that we may admit that we have not been as good or as effective in integration as we would like to be. Now, at the latest now is the time to actually get these measures into legislation, to help people, because if someone knows something, it is said, in Slovenian to do certain courses and so on, then also get a job, he will be more successful when he goes either to a dentist, he will also be able to go to a speaking-hour school wherever he is. Everywhere in this environment, it will be easier to live, it will not be eliminated, it will be easier to socialise, it will make new contacts easier and so on. In this way it will contribute to this society, which will also contribute more to it. So we can say it's a mutual benefit. At the same time – although it is not a matter of this law – we are also dealing with some other matters when we talk about integration, in particular that those who come under agreements in Slovenia will already learn some basics of Slovenian language, Slovenian legal order, especially labour law, safety and health at work and so on, just because they come here they will be so empowered to know what their rights are and, of course, what their duties are. I'm sure there's a few other things from here on out. As far as Yes is concerned, from the first point of view, it was intended to increase the exploitation of pensioners. [[…]] I'd still say the next thing. One of the rules adopted by the negotiating group of the Economic and Social Council was that new themes only open if there is a three-party agreement. Which means that it is not an initiative of employers, but it is also difficult to say that it is an initiative of the government or that it is an initiative of trade unions, but it is a coordinated or joint initiative that we have received on the table. She came from the side, we could say, unions and employers. They said they had some problems, especially those of the older generation, which also presented them as warning of certain problems. We looked at what they suggested, we somehow balanced it with what we wanted to see, and we came up with a final solution. So, at the annual level, the number of hours a person can make does not change. However, it changes that three months a year can happen if someone spends 90 instead of 60 hours, but that means that he spends less than an hour in the remaining months. In view of the fact that it is a matter of temporary and occasional work, it is envisaged to be used to cover peaks. For this reason, it's only reasonable that somehow there's a parallel with the U.S.A. when we look at the reallocation of working time, which means that we've found a common point, we've aligned ourselves, we've moved on. The fact that someone is going to say that we're going into exploitation, and in principle the pensioners have suggested that we go into this change, I think it's, like, a little unsportsy. It may be possible to ask someone before such a thing is said how a certain solution came about. The Desus Group – that the upper limit is not raised. I explained this briefly earlier that the funds actually collected, which we have around €40 million, on the other hand, expenditure on compensations is about € 160 million. For this reason, we decided in the first phase to raise this lower limit from EUR 350 to EUR 530. This ensures a slightly higher social security for those receiving the lowest compensation. However, we are aware that a new mechanism, perhaps a little better, will have to be found in the future. However, this is a mechanism that is also envisaged by the Constitution. So there is no debate about whether or not we would have had it. The debate is only about whether we can do this better, so that it will also reflect for someone who, for example, has higher incomes, which means that he has also paid more, that he can expect most of his income secured, and that is what is currently going on. It was also asked about the Law on Labour Market Interventions or Social Security. This was a temporary measure and will expire at the end of this year. We have recorded certain positive numbers and effects, but in the end it has matured to believe that it makes sense that this temporary arrangement will end at the end of this year. What does that mean? This means that the law we discussed earlier says that the ZPIZ-2 contains one interesting provision in Article 156, which is that for employees over 60 years the employer pays 30% lower contributions to pension and disability insurance. So I'm talking about the employer's contributions. And that's a general solution. Thus, for all who are above this age, the employer pays slightly less for their contributions. Our assessment was, given what we have done with the minimum wage and some other measures, that it is reasonable to have some general burden over a certain age, the budget deficit – the previous estimate was around 18 million euros – and it is currently envisaged that this is also being achieved. If this hadn't come true, because this is now a spontaneous scenario, we should cut into that other marriage. But our assessment was, as you yourself thought, how to face older workers and help stimulate employers to keep them longer through some prism of work. This will actually happen now, and we promise that there will also be some positive results from this. One last thing I was going to mention, but that's just the part, it's called density. Earlier it was said, from 9 months to 24, which you have to collect in the insurance age to get unemployment benefits, we are now going to 10. The primary proposal was 12 months. For 12 months, the proposal was solely because we found a rather violent seasonal pattern and these started immediately after Slovenia went from 12 months to 9 months. Most other countries have this condition for 12 months precisely because of the fact that the situation does not occur.For example, you have hospitality, construction, some other activities that have a strong seasonal component, meaning that this low season is November, December, January, February – somehow at the time – and this has happened somewhat unusually to us as a country and as a result – we are not just talking about the country, because income is paid by everyone, it is said, other industries, industries, employees who are employed for 12 months a year – essentially subsidising certain industries. [[…]] If this is a social consensus, fine, but I don't think it is. This came about in some unintended way, and for that reason we then said that it made sense to begin to interfere. One way is by prolonging this density and another way, as I mentioned in the introduction as the Government's position; it is said that negotiations have been negotiated and another negotiating group has been set up simultaneously, which is dealing with the law on the registration of working time. However, since it was found primarily through the ex post controls of the Labour Inspectorate and so on, if we look at those industries with seasonal high intensity, and look at their records, at that maximum intensity, everyone worked from Monday to Friday eight hours a day, and if they had a normal monitoring system, they would find that it was probably not so that there were more of those hours, and if there were more of those hours, then in fact, in this low season, people could actually enjoy what they did more, even with dignity. But not in such a way that it is compensated from the state budget, but from what it has earned from all those hours that have been done. This is a sensitive debate, I think we will definitely have to sit very carefully on this with both employers and trade unions, but I think we have quite a few good solutions that could then be on your table for further discussion in a relatively short time. Let's make this an introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you very much. We have two panellists reported. He will be the first to receive the word of Mr Sonibo Knezak and as the second Lady of Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you, Vice President. I'll be brief, because everything I've been trying to point out has been explained to me by the Secretary of State. It is evident that he knows that they are also in contact with companies and with all that you have suggested in there, you are actually solving some of the problems that are detected in the labour market. You mentioned the pensioners. I welcome these 90 hours because in practice it happens that pensioners are mainly motivated at a time when there are sudden orders. In practice, this happens to do more than 60 hours and they are paid later next month. So it seems to me that it's about 90 hours, real, that even pensioners can do it. But I would have warned here, and I have already written to the Ministry before this function – or I don't know if you are responsible for this – but this work of pensioners is extremely expensive, quite taxed. I think it's even 80 percent, if I remember correctly; I know when we last hired when I was still in the post of Human Resources Director. You have already responded to me about providing these financial social assistance. And I thought I'd suggest why not raise these highest aids. [[…]] Somehow you answered me with the funds you get in the cash register, how much you pay them off. It seemed to me that even with these highest payments, I needed to think about something, but I got some answers that satisfied me. Around foreigners – I very much welcome the matter. We are in the company when we hired foreigners – we mostly took them in a package, somewhere between 5 and 10. In this process of socialisation within the company we have made a compulsory, mandatory course of Slovenian language within the company; difficult technology, necessarily they must know that I do not speak.Oh, my God! [[…]] You can't do the basics. It's a safety test at work. I know. I know the stories in construction that are happening. Otherwise, everyone has a full field, but I know no one even understood them. So I think this is a very good measure, so that, at the final stage, they can also do something about themselves at the time they are here. But I also connect, and you also mentioned because I gave, I think last month's initiative to the Ministry of Public Administration, but it would probably be good for your ministry, because I suggested that measures, when you join the family after five years and offer free courses, I think 60 to 120 hours are free because they know the country, the constitution, the language. I even suggested that, without offering it to them, this should be mandatory, in particular, because it does not happen, especially from the former South, where parents, especially mothers, play a significant role in the family. If our parents do not know anything, what we now have to attend primary school can happen to us. In short, for easier socialization. I wanted to make a few other points, but you've already given me in your debate, so thank you for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, and Nik Prebil appears for discussion. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Thank you to all those who insist with me even though it is Friday afternoon, but the topic is very important for my concepts and it is right that we discuss it too. The Labour Market Regulation Act applies from 1. 1. 2011 and at that time it has been renovated seven times, meaning that it is indeed living matter and a law that is constantly adapting to the labour market. As we have heard, the objectives of the current law are to activate the working population more quickly, then to extend the work activities of the elderly, to limit criminal employment, to ensure greater social security for beneficiaries of monetary compensation, and so on. I too will focus on some major changes and mainly support them. It seems to me that the current changes in the proposal are really addressing the right things, eliminating many anomalies, so I really agree with most of them. As it is said, Slovenian language at least at A1 level will have to be known by foreigners who register with unemployed persons. I welcome this, because communication with the employment advisor alone is not possible if a person does not know anything Slovenian. Even in virtually no job, no cleaning woman or anyone, even where she does not work with people, is in fact impossible to work, as there are still contracts of employment and all documents in the Slovenian language and if no one understands anything, it is in fact unemployable. There's been a lot of talk about pensioners. I support the decision, it is said, so far they have been able to work every month over this temporary and occasional part of 60 hours a month, now it is allowed to work three months a year for 90 hours, but the common fund of hours remains 720, as it was before. So it's about adapting to seasonal conditions. I very much welcome this decision, which will in fact be changed also on the basis of the recommendation of the Ombudsman – it is said that the application before the maternity and after the maternity performance will now come together. Many mothers who returned from maternity leave, here and there, were also fathers, each application for inclusion in any measure began to count as new. I really welcome this change so that these applications will be aggregated and can be included in active employment policies as soon as possible, and then they will also be employed as soon as possible. The financial compensation has already been mentioned. So far, it has been required for 9 months in the last 24 months, and the proposal is now coordinated in the Economic and Social Council for 10 months. It is true, as the Secretary of State has already said, that the desire was to go back to 12 months in the last 24 months, but with regard to these various seasonal works such as agriculture, construction, then in the negotiations on the Economic and Social Council it prevailed that it was enough for 10 months. True, there have been a number of system plays here, a lot of people have said that they worked normally in the summer months of 10, 12 hours, and good employers have also had these people for an indefinite period of time, and then also during the winter months they benefit from these hours. Of course, some from one year to another sent workers to the office or sent them and then got angry when they were informed and sent to other jobs. In Slovenia we have no special fund for seasonal workers, perhaps because you mentioned the Secretary of State that you are thinking in this direction, you are looking for these solutions. Some countries have arranged it this way. We don't have him, so all these people who come in over the winter to apply there have to meet the same obligations as all the other unemployed. In fact, it is an ugly view and criticism of employment counselors, czech and where they are sent; they are still waiting for their employer. So I think there should be some more appropriate solution here for seasonal workers, as far as this is tolerated. However, I hope that much of this will be resolved through the Labour and Social Security Records Act, because, as it is said, these workers will be doing their jobs in the summer months. The length of the refund itself did not decrease, as originally envisaged, but then rises to age. When I saw it – from 50 to 53 years of age to get a 19-month refund or from 55 to 58. Here I would just ask, do I have one thought – is there any transitional period for people who are on notice? Those people who may be in possession of a decision on a notice of cancellation, are they provided for a transitional period? Because those between 50 and 53 or 55 and 58 can then get less than they expected. With regard to the increase in monetary compensation, it has been said, i.e. from 350 to 530, but here I would really like to stress that this amount is a gross amount and is essentially comparable to the net amount of monetary social assistance. Because the recipients of the cash refund pay exactly the same contributions as all employees, and they are also running out of time, so that all contributions are withdrawn and that amount is a gross amount, so that it is comparable then to the net amount of the financial social assistance, which is certainly right and fair. There's quite a few changes. Yes, this sanction is therefore deleted. I think the SAB Group has made it difficult to delete the non-declaration sanction within three days of the job seeker. In fact, I welcome this decision, because in three days of major bankruptcy, sometimes even small offices are not able to report so many people in three days. When it actually says in three days, not in three working days. So, if the bankruptcy was on Friday, that means everybody's application on Monday. On the other hand, you need to understand that people who suddenly lost their jobs are experiencing tremendous hardships. There are a lot of hospital and other pressures here, so in fact, many times people are not even able to register in these three days as job seekers. I welcome this decision. There is no way that they can be sanctioned for not applying, because now their monetary compensation has fallen by 30 per cent and I think that this solution is a viable solution and would also leave it as you propose to delete it. With regard to incentives for employment of under-educated persons. A good suggestion is this or this amendment that it is now possible only for another employer, because, as I said earlier, when I mentioned these buildings, these employers who sent people to the institution over the winter. At the same time, if he went to the same employer, then one could get this reward for employment, but that was not the point. It is right to encourage a new employer to seek a new employer. And another thing that's been solved, I've seen. In previous legislation, it was said that they received 20 percent of the last cash refund paid. This means that someone could have gotten together for two months if the role was resolved for a little longer, or if someone had barely got paid for half a month if they hadn't paid for the whole month and then 20 percent wasn't real. The solution you are now proposing is, of course, much more just because you are proposing 20 percent of the monthly compensation that would have been due in that month. Only about sanctioning people would I say something else. In some cases, single-stage sanctioning is now taking place; in cases where a person does not respond to an invitation. I welcome this, but I have one dilemma, because it is also in cases – so when the job seeker is not active because he has not responded to the guide, I have one thought. People will find that it is better not to respond to a travel agent, which will not be checked out for the first time, because if it comes to an employer, it is better not to refuse a job there or to seek employment, but it will be sanctioned immediately. However, I must say that in essence these sanctions must exist and it is right to go first, because the institution always sends people in line with the employment plan. So this is in line with those employment objectives that they agreed to look for. I must say that in recent years, as a rule, almost all persons have been pre-checked either by telephone or by email or by any other means that they have been verified before being sent to an interview for employment. Thus, it is right that sanctions are maintained and that in some cases, when there is a grave violation, they are as one-stage. I therefore support the amendments, but I am most pleased that all these changes have indeed been harmonised in the Economic and Social Council, so that all the partners have also given their consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Now he gets the word Mr. Nick Prebil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u162	Thank you, President. It won't be long. I'd just like to re-emphasize a few things. With regard to the views I have listened to, of course, I agree with some, not entirely, but certainly certain concerns are legitimate and this is a matter of debate for their resolution. As the colleague said, yes, this law is indeed living matter and is adapting to the labour market, so that measures to change are certainly necessary. Once again, the purpose of this novel – faster activation of the working population, longer working activities of older people, restriction of criminal employment, as we said, and higher levels of social security for recipients of monetary compensation in the case of unemployment. The key changes are therefore to minimise this amount, increase the insurance period for the recognition of the right from 9 to 10 months for the last 24 months, and the rest will be possible for this last measure to more effectively activate the integration of foreign unemployed persons, without the knowledge of the Slovenian language. As I said in my position earlier, ignorance of the Slovenian language makes it difficult for the unemployed or even makes it impossible to effectively integrate into the Slovenian labour market. I have no objection to hiring foreigners when opportunities are exhausted in Slovenia, but respected, see, language is basic, everyone in some normal work process has to master language in a country where, of course, it is – in addition to other qualities that he has – and certainly at least some basic ability to communicate with customers. Otherwise, foreign unemployed persons can already be included in these courses and exams from the Slovenian language, as it is said, this is their own choice and we find that this is decided by relatively few unemployed persons, so I think this proposal is appropriate. In particular, the other changes are being adapted to certain matters in order to facilitate the implementation of the law, some applicable jurisprudence and the views of the Ombudsman on these amendments, some provisions of the law, but I would like to point out once again that the whole of the cases and the proposed solutions have been coordinated among the social partners in the Economic and Social Council, which I do, of course, welcome. Just with these measures from the previous pension novel, when we speak, and with those we are now going to meet people, we are giving them those better opportunities for both work and retirement. Last but not least, the aim of policy is to adopt the very laws of life. However, I agree that there will be a lot of work to be done in certain areas, but we probably all agree that these steps and those we have already discussed today are a good step towards the goal we have, so I will certainly support this proposal for a law at first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you very much. This brings us to the conclusion of the general debate in which he gets the word is the representative of the Government, Mr Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. To what I've responded at first, there's definitely a little something else to add. One issue was mentioned as regards the temporary and occasional part of the pensioners, mainly from the point of view of the burden. I suppose that's what it was looking for more from this point of view, that it was a civil relationship, and I think we have, we can say, a triple burden. On the one hand, there are contributions, on the other, and on the third, I think there is a special tax on certain benefits. This concerns us in part because we have one inter-resort working group dealing with the unification of insurance sums and bases. We are, therefore, implying that there is some logical balance in how much contributions a certain type of contract is burdened with. Thus, the provision on fixed-term employment, then for a certain period of time, then we have a student job, temporary and occasional work of pensioners, then we have here a business contract, copyright contracts. Now we have to somehow get this into some reasonable common denominator. In this sense, every work is considered, it is said, that every right must be paid and then it must be drawn in some reasonable proportion. And in the context of this part, when we are done, I think that that special tax on certain benefits, which is an old thing, if we can call it that, and it was introduced for other reasons, and it will then be possible to eliminate it and it will probably become more interesting or less burdensome. There are layoffs when it comes to agriculture or this seasonal collection and so on, but I don't think there's any exception in this case. From here on out - another thing. The initiative you gave at MJU is certainly interesting and is heading towards that integration. The only thing that concerns family reunification is the rule that after one year can unite the family, we have also reviewed certain data recently. Indeed, we have some discretion in this and in this regard we have also joined the MNU in cooperation with the MNU. This is another interdepartmental working group dealing with potential abuses. There, too, this is already being addressed and I think that, as you yourself mentioned, we will find another solution, which would somehow primarily motivate people in the right direction and then as a side effect, we can say, even slightly deter potential abuse. One issue has also been raised from the perspective of future periods. Three months shall be provided for the transitional period. Thus, when the necessary insurance age changes — 19 months or 25 months — the right to compensation, we will see how the debate will develop. If you are to assess that we need a more sophisticated provision there, it is said that this transitional provision would also be considered. I must admit that when we made up the law, we also thought about a number of options, then we decided on one very simple one. But it will also come out of the discussion with you then somehow come out or if we say: it is better as simple as possible, but then there may be some negative side effect or perhaps a slightly more sophisticated effect and then it concerns a somewhat more liquid fallout. [[…]] I'd just say the rest of it. I would point out again, too, that we consider this to be a relatively good achievement at the Ministry, that it is true, based on those starting points that we have also coordinated at the level of the coalition, that we have succeeded in the Economic and Social Council again through several iterations of this negotiating group to reach agreement on these solutions. This indicates that they are deeply shaken, and I am glad that many of you today have said that you are ready to support this in your first reading. So thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u165	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got your word. Since the time set for the debate is not yet exhausted, I ask if anyone else wishes to discuss it on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I can see that. How many years? Just Mr. Baković. Here you go. You've got five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u166	Based on the hour, I promise I won't be long. You just have to talk to me about this topic, which is kind of parallel to the one I was discussing. I would like to say that Kočev had a record unemployment rate a few years ago. This was more than 26 percent. Now this rate is about 14.7%. The difference is obvious, but it's not satisfactory. We have a lot of people who are long-term unemployed and, of course, many members of the Roma community. I'm not going to talk about the reasons why this is happening today. I am pleased, however, that the law regulates the incentive to hire recipients of money for low- and secondary-educated persons, while also regulating the way in which unemployed persons are penalised. The current law has in practice not provided incentives to increase the employment of members of the Roma community and other permanent or long-term unemployed. I wonder whether these proposed amendments to the law will make any progress in this area as well. As far as I understand the matter, among other things, this is a change to the current two-stage sanctioning of infringements on the basis of the obligations of the unemployed. Two-stage, as I understand, is maintained when the unemployed person is not an active job seeker, so he will not respond to the invitation, the travel agent and the like, in the remaining cases, when he refuses to include in the active employment policy programme and violates other obligations, or he will refuse appropriate or appropriate employment, and will then cease to keep such a person in the unemployment record at the time of the first infringement. First of all, I wonder if this is binding, mandatory, if that happens, or if there are other solutions. At the same time, as I understand it, the recipient of the monetary compensation is favoured by the sanction imposed in the event of the first infringement of the obligation in such a way as to reduce the monetary compensation even below the minimum monetary compensation, but only for the next two months. What will all of this mean in practice? In fact, what is the difference between the current legislation and the proposed amendments in this area? But most of the time, we heard and understood. I am more wondering, but it will be such that it will effectively encourage people to work or not, and how can it also encourage the employer to want or want to hire a member of the Roma community. To be honest, today, for such and other reasons, many employers do not want to hire a member of the Roma community, and that is not right. The problems currently present – and I believe you know them – both in Kočev and in the wider valley region are largely due to this area and to the inefficiency of existing legislation. I really want you to hear the good news about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I've never seen the Secretary of State raise his hand before. Here you go. You have your word, too. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. I'd just like to answer a few questions. If we look at the first thing, you mentioned the situation in Kočev as a region that had markedly increased unemployment. This, as you say, falls, but is still relatively high. You also mentioned one of the groups that is actually targeted after several projects or the efforts we have. If we just look at an active employment policy, we have an embedded note, we can say that, some positive discrimination. It is said that both by the level of co-financing and in terms of how you rank in certain points, you try to influence those who have more problems to get some services that would encourage them to get or somehow resolve to get a job that would possibly be permanent. But there's a lot of different problems here. I'll try to show it in a very plastic way. One of the initiatives, which was then also stimulated this target group, is called the Roma to work at the post office as postmen. If you take 10 Roma and go down the centre of Ljubljana here and take 10 others, say Slovenians, it is highly likely, depending on the weight of the work, if you compare that in the end no one is likely to do so. Then, at times, even in the media, there are certain comments, look at them, it was offered, and they are not done. Why would you do that? By looking at the whole population, they may often be offered some work that is already — for anyone — extremely difficult, difficult, difficult, perhaps inappropriate to start with, for that first part of socialization, knowledge of work and so on, and here we will have to find some new solutions. In fact, it will be necessary to find ways to approach, how to help, also to look a little beyond the limits of what foreign practices are, because there are certain patterns that they have and lie down more. For example, group work is more fun for them, caring for an area is more important for them than individual work, from 8 to 4 p.m. or, I don't know, from 7 to 3 p.m. So this is where we, on our part, have to think about what we can do to make it easier to get them inside. Another matter of sanctioning. It's two-step, isn't it? That's an interesting thing. It has been introduced on the initiative of one of the international organisations, which is reasonable, of course, it makes sense that it is two-stage, but not immediately such a sanction. The problem that has arisen has been that the dictatorship in law has been set up in such a way that it has become a step-by-step sanctioning endless. It worked by committing a violation, by checking out, by reappealing, and by no means having a violation. And the solutions in the marriage were inoperable. That is why this change has now taken place, two-stage or one-stage. It may also be a question of some proportionality in this regard, but we are still assessing from the point of view of the discussions we had with the Employment Office, how the institution approaches. So this isn't some draconian approach, but now I'm here to punish you, but I'm trying everything I can. Even if it fails with warnings, it only goes beyond some of the other measures that are available to it. Thus, there is some proportionality and graduality already ensured at practical level, but in fact it is also provided for here by these sanctions. As far as two months from now, this sanction is concerned. It seemed disproportionate to us that someone who, for example, is 12 or 19 or 25 months a recipient of a financial compensation, is being punished for the entire period because in this way they would actually put him in a difficult, even social, situation. We said it'd be comparable and we'd cut the remuneration by two months, and it's about the same for every two months, if we say so. However, if this were applied for 10, 15, 20 months, but in this aspect of proportionality, we can say at least what is wrong. Why, though, is it now possible to lower it under a minimum of compensation, and the reason is that we now have a strong density if we look at it as much as we do in wages. In Slovenia there is a strong density. There are a lot of people out there who have something above the minimum, and then suddenly it falls down. It's the same with compensation. So, a lot of people are going to be on those 530 euros now. For this reason, we wanted to preserve part of this penal policy in a way that could go even lower. This will still be over the 350 euros that I would now get as a minimum, but less than the 530. Now I've run out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-25-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Secretary of State. We have thus concluded a general debate on the proposal for a decision. That the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Tuesday 29 October in the framework of the votes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and interrupt the 12th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed on Tuesday 29 October at 9 a.m. Have a nice weekend, everybody!
