ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 8th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Marko Koprivc, Tina Heferle from 19:00 onwards, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Franz Breznik, Ludmila Novak, Ferenc Horváth, Dr. Franc Trček, Violeta Tomič from 15:00 on, Miha Kordiš from 18:00 on, Primož Siter, Natasa Sukič, Anja Bah Žibert, Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec from 15:00 on, Željko Cigler from 12.30 on, Igor Zorčič from 14:00 on and I will also be away from 19:00 on my own. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 3rd and 14th agendas, and the representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic and the representative of the Council to the 19th agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. Once again to all present a nice greeting! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We are moving on to the agenda of the 8th regular meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 10 May 2019, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I therefore propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received with reference. Since we are moving on to a decision, please check the operation of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 69 Members and Members present, 69 votes in favour, none against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 8th meeting of the National Assembly is set. Ladies and gentlemen! Before we move to the 1st item of the agenda, please allow me to welcome on the balcony the President of the National Council of the Swiss Confederation, her Excellency Marina Carobbio Guscetti with a delegation that responded kindly to the invitation to our country's official visit. Dear President! Today, May 20th, we are celebrating the second world bee day, and Slovenia's efforts to declare this day have also been greatly supported by the Swiss Confederation, for which we are extremely grateful. I am pleased that, following the discussions you have had so far in the course of your visit, I can only further underline the friendly ties between countries and nations. I wish you a successful continuation of the program and a pleasant stay in Slovenia. You're most welcome! / applause/ With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to 1. At the time of the day, this is for questions from the Members of Parliament and the Members of Parliament. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have, within the deadline of business, taken up the written applications of 44 questions sent. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the arrangements of the leaders of the groups of Members of the Council of 13 November 2018. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition, the question posed by the MP of the Levica Group and questions raised by the ruling coalition members will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall respond to questions within a maximum of 5 minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, they all have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for a substantive debate on questions. If the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, Minister or Minister must submit a written reply to him within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point they apologized for today: Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandra Pivec, Minister of Health, Mr Aleš Šabeder, and Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Simon Zajc. A review of the questions sent, which were not answered within the deadline of business, has been published on the electronic bench. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. Mr Marjan Sarec will answer the first five questions. Mr Zvonko Černač will be the first to ask him the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u2	Nice greeting to all, especially to the President of the Government, to whom I refer the question of the massive illegal crossings of the Croatian-Slovenian Schengen border. What does official statistics say? Last year, the number of illegal border crossings increased by four times, according to 2017. This year, given the comparable period last year, more than doubled, which means that the number of illegal crossings of the Croatian-Slovenian border has increased by more than eight times over the last two years. The statistics of the last ten days are even more unfavourable. It is also a profitable human trafficking, since the police dealt with 197 organisers last year and almost 100 this year. The Act on State border control in Article 2 states that border control is carried out, inter alia, to prevent irregular migration and to ensure the safety of people, property and the environment. The illegal crossings of the Schengen border should therefore not be, nor should there be mass crossings. The government must respect the law and the Constitution and take measures to protect the borders, people and their property. The Law on International Protection is, therefore, a mass violation of the law. This is what the data are talking about: last year 2 000 875 migrants referred to international protection, to asylum, only 102 applications were granted. So 3.5% of those who referred to international protection, or percent of all who illegally crossed the border. This year, only 26 of these references to international protection have been approved for a thousand 111. Indeed, the mass abuse of asylum legislation indicates that in 2015, almost half a million migrants crossed Slovenia and only 277, only 46 were granted these applications. Due to the increase in illegal crossings and the inefficient protection of the Schengen border, the security situation in areas along the 670 kilometres of this border between Croatia and Slovenia has deteriorated considerably. People feel threatened, especially after the last incident, when a group of four illegal migrants kidnapped an eighty - year - old, tied him up and held him locked up for six hours in the trunk of a car and released him only at the border with Italy. People in areas along the Schengen border are calling on the Government and the President of the Government to help and asking him what I am asking myself: Why are you, Prime Minister, deaf to the call for help of people at the Croatian-Slovenian Schengen border? Why don't you want to help them, Marjan Sarec, President of the Government? Why does your government not take measures to effectively secure the border between Croatia and Slovenia, which would physically prevent mass illegal crossings and protect people and property?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. Tinker Bell, Member! I am answering this question of yours, which, of course, I was expecting, given that your party meeting last time in Montenegro has not worked too well. That this was a party meeting, I also received a confirmation today from Mrs Ludmila Novak, who gave an interview for a particular magazine, and another lady had an interview that also confirms this. So this meeting of yours failed, it was addressed in the same way as all of your questions about migration, and this is concentrated fairly on pre-election time. The fact that illegal migration is taking place is a fact. We cannot say here that Slovenia is to blame. It's an international situation. However, what you're saying, I haven't heard from you yet any particular thing except that hunter hunting at the border, and there was a lot last week about what was going on around my home fence, which, by the way, has been there for 30 years, but since it's been a long time, I've just replaced it. If you drive through our village, you'll see that I'm not the only one with this. You're the one who told me it was because I didn't know what it was. Then your president put on Twitter last week on a profile picture of a combat uniform, and I was expecting one of you to come across my fence. In short, don't get involved in my private affairs, because I don't get involved in yours either. Various of your media are sending questions addressed, so-called media, of course, to who's going to pay for it and why it is if we really feel threatened by migrants and I don't know what. All week long we have had such and different unrealitys, and it is difficult to discuss this issue with you on some rational basis. What you're asking me is not that this government has done anything. Last but not least, we have given the police an allowance for increased labour to protect the Schengen border, additional military units have been sent, and auxiliary police units have also been sent. I think 419 auxiliary police officers have already been active in protecting the border. A special police unit for compensatory measures has been activated. Cooperation with Croatia, as regards the return of people to Croatia, is going well. However, if the situation deteriorates dramatically, you have rightly found that it is a smuggling company, it is also possible to activate Article 37a, which gives the military additional powers. But I do believe that the situation is not such that it is necessary. However, we have already proposed at the international level that Frontex, not like you at the party meeting, should have shouted that Frontex should come to our border, the external border of Europe is the border with Croatia, Serbia and Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, where Frontex should be sent and the border better monitored. Even better, it would have happened on the Macedonian-Greek border. Macedonia has done a great deal in the past, as far as this is concerned, so we also call on the European Commission to start negotiations with Northern Macedonia to join the European Union. We know that this country has not yet met all the criteria, but the process needs to start because illegal refugees are also coming from there. As it is said, there is a smuggling company here and I can say that our police are doing a good job. However, the opinion of the leading unionist is not the opinion of the police. You can also ask the management of the Slovenian police. You did that last week, too, and there's a lot of other stuff. This government is implementing measures and will do so in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Members, do you have a request to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u6	I didn't get any answers. Also, according to this logic, as explained here by the Prime Minister, on April 27th this year there was a party meeting of Social Democrats in Jelshan. People missed yours last Saturday in Montenegro, Prime Minister, because you were invited. There it was said by organisers, the Citizens' Initiative of the White Landscape, that representatives of all political parties represented in Parliament were invited, especially the President of the Government, the President of the State and so on. You weren't there. People missed you. They wanted to hear what you were going to do to ensure their safety. Nor did you send any of the many high state officials who are well paid to do a job that talks about the protection of the Slovenian-Croatian or Croatian-Slovenian Schengen borders. I didn't ask you about your fence, either. However, one lady last Saturday there told me that Prime Minister Marjan Sarec must feel safe with more than two and a half metres of walled high fence, but he does not understand why today, so then on Saturday, he is not here among them and why he does not say how he will protect them as well. They missed you, Prime Minister. I don't understand why you're afraid of people. When you were in another role, when you were playing Serpentine, you weren't afraid of people. Why are you afraid of them now? People rightly expect you to act in accordance with the law and the constitution and to protect them. These measures, which you mentioned, do not solve the situation. 35 soldiers without powers at the Croatian-Slovenian border cannot solve the situation. Nor does Frontex, which will be activated in a year or two. The situation needs to be solved today, this moment. If anyone can determine whether the security situation is appropriate at the Slovenian-Croatian Schengen border or not to make a credible assessment, they must be Slovenian police officers. Police officer Kristjan Mlekuž, or president of the union, says: “There is no protection of the green border.” That's his statement. The situation at this border is that he's still right. That's why I'm asking you: What will you do to make the border [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u8	Mr. Blackach, how predictable you are! I was just waiting for you to come to Serpentine, and for these things, because that's all you obviously know. Look, it's not my fault if you didn't form the government. I know you want your president to be here in my place. But these very statements in such a context will answer why you are here alone. It can't be any different. Who's gonna work with you like that? In such a way that you will talk about the fence, by the way, it is not two and a half metres high, nor have you inquired about it, and in this way and with this Serpentine. Yeah, I played it, I did. Your President has also conquered Slovenia, and today he is even working with foreign countries against the Slovenian government on various foreign policy issues. And your MEPs are suing in Brussels. What am I supposed to do? We're used to it, Mr. Blackach. It doesn't take that anymore. Look, time's up. You may sometimes form a government, but when you may be a little more cultural, you may treat us a little differently here in this hall and stop what someone has played before. So what! Yeah, I was playing. I've never been afraid of people, and I've come to Chernobyl many times before, and I'm coming. But at your client meetings, if you'll just forgive me, I won't walk because I won't listen. In addition, Mrs Ušaj, who was at the meeting, says she published an interview today that it was like a funeral meeting of your party. So you have problems with each other on your right and then you'll be here for me. You won't break your copies on my back, Mr. Chernač. It's been a while. It's gone. You think what you want. Slovenian police are doing well, Slovenian police are so that Slovenia is safe. Also in Ljubljana there was a hijacking of a bus with a screwdriver. That's what happened. Anything can happen. You know, Mr. Chernač, then you don't have to ask yourself why no one likes you and doesn't want to cooperate with you. You're the only one who's always guilty of everything else without a connection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u10	Given that the President of the Government has not answered my question and, above all, has not ensured that he will protect people at 670 kilometres of the long Croatian-Slovenian Schengen border, that no clear assurance has been given from this place today and no concrete action has been proposed, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this at the next meeting, and that there is also a need for guidance to the Government on what needs to be done in this area. I did not ask the Prime Minister about his fence, I said that the lady told me about the fence because she felt threatened in this area in the White landscape, not about other things. But I asked him why the Government and he personally did not provide protection of the Croatian-Slovenian border. As we will obviously not receive this protection, I would like to announce that today we will table an amendment to the Law on International Protection in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. I hope you'll support it because it's going in the right direction to make it easier for the cops. If I simplify, it is that no one who comes from a safe country, i.e. also from the Republic of Croatia, has the right to asylum. I have previously forwarded figures that say that this asylum process is being mass-abused, that the Slovenian NGOs, which are financed from the state budget, who know it is an abuse, are unfortunately involved, and that the government, the government of Marjan Sarca, is still funding them. From what has been said so far, I also understand that the Government does not want to lead a policy against the illegal crossings of the state border because it is leading the immigration policy of the entire coalition under the direction of the Left. That is the case with the support of the Marrakesh Declaration last December. Therefore, it is not a problem that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would not have at its disposal an effective means of securing the Croatian-Slovenian border and protecting people and property in this area, but does not want to do so. We have taken quite a few steps at the last meeting of the Committee, which should be taken immediately. One of these is certainly better physical protection of the border, the other is the deployment of several personnel resources to this border, namely the activation of an army in the sense that it is empowered under Article 37a of the Defence Act, which means that soldiers will not just walk along the border, as they do now, 12 of them in exchange for 35, but that they will have some kind of police authority to act. It is important for us to change asylum legislation in this respect in particular, as I mentioned earlier. In such a case, there is also no need for reception centres, as these illegal crossings must not be or will be a percentage of them, given the situation we are monitoring today. Given that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its Prime Minister, Marjan Sarec, do not want to protect us, I propose that we discuss this at the next meeting of the National Assembly and make the appropriate decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your proposal. We will vote on it tomorrow in the framework of the vote. This brings us to a second question for the President of the Government. You have the word, Mr. Joseph Croat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Dear President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on the European Council last December you agreed to try to reach a political framework on the multi-annual financial framework 2021-2027 until this autumn. I'm curious, Mr. President: What will your government's development priorities for the next financial perspective be, above all, in addressing the growing differences in development between statistical regions in Slovenia? As a Member from Prekmur with great concern, I observe the situation in the region, which feels strongly neglected both economically and socially and culturally by the State of Slovenia. Overtures due to the country's stepmotherly attitude have not been able to compensate for the development backlog for central Slovenia for years. The average wage is reduced by two euros per kilometer from Ljubljana to Prekmur, i.e. 400 euros. According to the GDP per capita criterion, there is a significant difference between the Western and Eastern cohesion regions. This difference amounts to 32 percentage points in relation to the EU average and to the detriment of the Eastern cohesion region. The statistical region of Pomur is practically all economic development indicators on Slovenia's tail. That's why, Mr. President, I'm interested in: As President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, what will you do to finally combine Prekmurje with the motherland of Slovenia not only in words but also in economic, social and development terms? You have a chance, and you have my help. In addition, spending Hungarian state aid – I am sure that it is under European rules because it is a state aid to the Prekmurje Hungarians, which I do not oppose – has caused the Slovenians and Slovenians to lose dramatically in the competitive fight in Prekmurje. Dear Mr President of the Government, Prekmurje has always been on the edge, geographically and otherwise. For centuries, it was a Hungarian slave, then a Yugoslav slave, and I do not want it to be a Slovenian slave now. But that's how it feels. And we don't want to be still working on the edge.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u14	Thank you for asking. The fact that Pomurje got her marriage a while ago was a good decision. Since 2010, when this law has entered into force, the registered unemployment rate has decreased from 19.4% last year to 13.3%. This, of course, must also be attributed to the good economic situation in recent years, as opposed to the previous crisis years. In the first year of implementing the law, over 10,000 were unemployed. To date, 516 companies have been set up and are still in business. This situation is not as bad as we may sometimes hear. However, the situation will need to be improved in particular now that the law of Pomurje is being completed twice as long as it has been extended and the region of Pomurje will be considered in the future in accordance with the Systemic Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development in the same way as all other regions. In the event of further high unemployment, we will draw up a new programme of development incentives for this area, but the current indicators do not indicate the need for this. Nor does this end financial assistance to this region; other instruments will also be available, such as the Agreement for the Development of the Regions, with which we, together with the Pomeranian Development Council, have put forward 19 development projects totalling EUR 53.5 million, of which the country will contribute EUR 41.2 million. With these projects, we will address the remaining shortages in water supply, municipal equipment for business zones and mobility. It is also envisaged to co-finance the construction of two water systems, for which the Ministry of Environment and Space will contribute EUR 33.1 million. For eight projects to promote entrepreneurship and develop infrastructure for businesses, including for economic zones, the Ministry of Economy will provide EUR 5.3 million. The third priority area is to promote mobility, with the Ministry of Infrastructure earmarking 2.8 million euros for nine bicycle network projects. Of course, it should be noted that regional and local actors must prepare good projects, obtain the necessary permits if they are not yet, and carry out the projects already agreed upon. The Murura will certainly also receive aid under the European Union’s Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027. Negotiations on the future European budget will not begin until autumn and it is impossible to predict the outcome of these negotiations. But I assure you that cohesion policy as the main investment policy of the European Union remains a key priority of our country. Finally, we are also in a group of countries called Friends of Cohesion. Nevertheless, we want to maintain as much as possible the scope of the cohesion funds proposed by the European Commission for the period beyond 2020, of course this will be difficult, but we will insist on doing so. The proposed €3.07 billion of cohesion funds is, despite the projected brexit and the fact that the volume or assets of cohesion policy are falling. These funds are comparable to the amount of resources available to Slovenia in this perspective, according to the present. It is true, however, that in the past we have also dealt with the previous perspective, which has then become a part of this. Given that cohesion funds are divided on the basis of the criterion of relative development, it is expected that Eastern Slovenia will receive, in the future multiannual financial framework, a level of cohesion assets that will be least comparable to the current reflection, but is likely, given its development, to face problems between the Western and Eastern cohesion region.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Member, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the information you've provided. I myself was first signed under the amendment of the Law on Development Support to the Pomeranian Region in order to extend it until the end of this year and thus we have succeeded. Unfortunately, however we look at economic indicators, Pomurje is on the tail, Mr President. But if we look at the narrower part of Pomurje, Prekmurje, you have not answered my question, so I am also giving you this opportunity. Extensive Hungarian assistance to Hungarian citizens or, more precisely, members of the Pomurian Hungarian National Community, which I do not oppose, underline, do not oppose, but has caused Slovenia and Slovenians to lose in a competitive fight in Prekmurje. Here I am giving you the chance that you are a better Prime Minister than Orban, but I am not kidding, but you must also have all the citizens before you, you cannot neglect those who, in this case, have lost in a competitive fight. In us in Prekmurje there are also some interests of very important investors, such as Swedish giant Ikea, I do not know how familiar you are with this. If not, I would ask you to do everything within the government to release the absurd Slovenian bureaucratic obstacles to open the door to investors like Ikea. And there's a few more. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u18	You say to be better than Orban, this will be difficult, of course, because Mr Orban is lucky to have friends in Slovenia, I don't have them, by the way. However, as far as Hungarian aid is concerned, of course it exists, but we are also taking steps, Slovenia is taking part here so that it does not feel that Slovenia has forgotten this part of Slovenia. On 9 May, 276 projects were approved for Pomurje. The value of the contracts concluded is EUR 54 million 192 thousand 910. The realisation of eligible expenditure is estimated at EUR 14 million and EUR 143 thousand 847. He could also draw attention to the construction project of the Murska Sobota Oblast, worth EUR 5.5 million. This is especially so, so we can't possibly say there's nothing going on there. Finally, a railway connection was also built, and I believe that our work in this direction will continue in the future, that this part of Slovenia will not be the edge as you said, and that it will be forgotten. I think that things have changed at this time, but I agree with you that the work is far from satisfactory, and we must always strive to bring more projects, to open up more jobs and believe that we will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, you have a procedural situation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I am taking advantage of the business opportunity to propose to the National Assembly that tomorrow's vote decide to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to my question. That I may not be misunderstood, look, I put compassion first — once again, because you know that I come from Prekmurje — to coexist among all who live in Prekmurje. We are very different, we are also very sensitive, but we have already shown that we can live together. Political pressures on the conduct of autonomous school institutions and the call for non-compliance with laws and school rules certainly do not contribute to co-existence. This is also a question that should be raised in the National Assembly. Once again, I do not object to Hungarian state aid to members of the pomur Hungarian national community. Thank God they've recovered economically. But also in the second part, Mr President did not answer me the question: what, in particular, will the state of Slovenia also help the Slovenes and Slovenians, who are the majority people in Prekmurje. There is no such answer, and we simply do not get it. Nor do I object to the fact that the State signed a contract last March to give EUR 1.6 million to the Hungarian Hungarian National Community. I support that. But I can't get past this, I really can't get past it, and I can't understand how the Slovenian German authorities can see the ownership of Slovenian companies by a neighbouring country. I can't understand that. I am personally for privatisation, but I am not for maintenance, and not by our country, but even less by a foreign country. I don't feel any reaction here by our Slovenian government. So, colleagues and colleagues, I hope you will support my proposal. There are many questions that we need to give very clear answers to. This is Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are voting on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. You have the floor, Mr. Victory Jelinčič Noble. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u22	Thank you. Part of the constitutional text by which the Slovenian Assembly adopted the Basic Constitutional Charter on the Independence and Independence of the Republic of Slovenia reads: “With a firm determination that the Republic of Slovenia respects the same rights of other Yugoslav republics and with them equally, democratically and peacefully regulates all issues from the present common life, respects their sovereignty and territorial integrity”. [[…]] [[…]] Under this law, under which our country is founded, Slovenia must respect exclusively the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Yugoslav republics, that is, Serbia. Since Slovenia must respect Serbia's sovereignty and territorial integrity, it cannot recognise Kosovo at the same time, as it would violate Kosovo's legal commitment to recognise Serbia's territorial integrity. Therefore, at the same time, it must not respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of legal entities other than the Republic, namely Kosovo. Article 153 of the Constitution: “Laws, regulations and other general acts must comply with the Constitution.” It's a valid hierarchy of legal acts. The act on the adoption of the Charter of Fundamentals and the act The Charter of Fundamentals is therefore, by legal hierarchy, certainly higher than the individual decision on recognition of Kosovo. Since the legal act on the adoption of the Basic Constitutional Charter is part of the constitutional substance and is a higher and more important legal act than individual acts on the recognition of Kosovo, it is necessary to respect Article 153 of the Constitution. It is therefore necessary to take into account the systemic legal argument of the hierarchy lex superior derogat legi inferiori. Slovenia has written in the Basic Charter that the principles of internationally recognised state borders in the context of the SFRJ are applicable to borders. According to legal analogy, it is logical that the same border principle should apply to Serbia. With Serbia bordering Albania in the SFRY, Serbia must also now have the same internationally recognised border until then with Albania. The existence of the state of Kosovo de facto and de jure precludes borders between Serbia and Albania. The legal solution is: an act shall be adopted repealing the Kosovo Recognition Act because it is contrary to Article 153 of the Constitution and contrary to the legal act adopting the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia. It will be necessary for the Constitutional Court to verify that the act on recognition of Kosovo is in accordance with the Constitution in view of the content of the act adopting the Basic Charter and the 153rd Article of the Constitution. To avoid all of this, I propose that Slovenia should follow the example of those European countries that have not recognised Kosovo's independence and have given up recognition, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador! Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Jelinčich! First of all, it would be appropriate to check in accordance with the latest event regarding your proposal for the Primorska Act if you did not give an initiative in 2005 to recognise Kosovo that we will not [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, I don't know, because for the law on Primorska, for example, you asked me why we shouldn't support Mr. German's proposal, but then the next day in the paper, I read that you proposed the same thing so many years ago. It's just this fear, but, I believe it's not, well, since I know your views on foreign policy, here I believe it isn't. As far as recognition of Kosovo or non-recognition is concerned – the recognition was so many years ago and I think that if we were to change it now, we might also turn out to be somewhat unworthy. I attended the Berlin Summit on 29 April at the initiative of Chancellor Merkel and President Macron. There have been gathered together by all the leaders of this region, and I believe that this process, which was also part of this Berlin meeting, will continue. However, Slovenia will not be defined until any changes to its borders or anything else. We want to have constructive relations, and that is how we will act in the future. However, it is up to countries to decide whether to have a dialogue or something else. I sincerely hope that the dialogue will not stall. We know that the problem is now customs and some other issues, but I believe that progress will be made in the future. However, in order to be defined in any way at this time, I do not think it is appropriate. We gave our recognition so many years ago and so many years ago, and now it wouldn't make any sense to change it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u26	Despite the US-European aggression against Serbia in 1999, which was carried out solely and solely for the purpose of establishing the American enclave in the Balkans, the International Court of Justice in The Hague in 2010, when it ruled on the Kosovo declaration of independence, decided that the declaration was merely an expression of the wishes of a group and nothing more. Therefore, the declaration is a list of wishes, which must be confirmed by a declaration. It wasn't like that. This requires the agreement of Serbia, which it does not give. Behind the recognition lies the requirement of the Pact of NATO to weaken Serbia and make its third Albanian country in the Balkans, and the fourth should be Slovenia. This was evident in the course of the 1999 attacks on the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. As David Kilcullen said, it follows that Serbia is far more dangerous for NATO than terrorists Al-Qaeda, Al-Nusre, ISIS and all terrorist organisations together. In 1999, the NATO-Yugoslavia air campaign had 19 000 484 air strikes — an average of 250 a day. In Libya 2011, there were 9,000 700 attacks in 215 days – 45 days a day. In Afghanistan, 6,000,500 attacks – about 83 a day. During the nine months of the air campaign, US aviation in Iraq and Syria had a total of 2 000 796 raids, a little over ten days. So NATO needed more air strikes than those on Libya, Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan together. It was another colonial attack on a sovereign state in order to create a puppet country in which great powers could exploit all the wealth they wanted. This was the reason for the so-called state of Kosovo and therefore Slovenia must withdraw from this association. After all, it won't be the only one.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u28	Thank you very much. In spite of the fact that the president of the National Assembly once said that he didn't applaud you here, they didn't applaud you on the Left, because otherwise you probably agree about Nate. I see you're putting your views together. As far as 1999 and Nate's attacks are concerned, there's been a lot of this. Here I say again, we are members of the European Union, we are also members of NATO and whatever – these are your interpretations. You can interpret them one way or another, but like I said, Kosovo has been admitted, and we are not the only ones. To claim that they are now stepping out of which group I do not know whether they are withdrawing from NATO or from countries that have recognised Kosovo. The Black Mountain has just joined. I'm always happy when you do a little history lecture and I'm happy to listen to you, too, so there's no mistake, but here I don't see the need for these actions that you're suggesting. However, I thank you for the question and for your opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u30	Thank you. To clarify the desire for the National Assembly to discuss and decide on the debate. First of all, who is this David Kilcullen? He was a consultant to American General David Petraeus from 2007 to 2008 for the Iraq War. He was also a consultant to the former head of the US Agency, and from 2005 to 2006, he was the main strategist in the coordination of anti-terrorist actions in the State Department, as well as a consultant to the British and Australian governments and a consultant to the NATO Pact. That's what they say. It's not some individual who doesn't know anything. However, I must say that you have been miseducated on certain matters, which is not really your fault, but it is the fault of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has already made a lot of mistakes and has already spoken nonsense. What's going on in Kosovo now? The border change has already taken place and is still taking place in Europe. Don't think it stopped. A large number of countries have also resigned, and Europeans who have given their recognition have also resigned. In Cosmet, as it is rightly said, Kosovo and Metohija are empty. This country is empty. There are, say, Pristina and some major cities, the countryside is empty. The village is mainly going to Slovenia. Even at the wishes and opportunities of the former government of Mr Cerar. There will be an empty territory to be picked up by those forces that have money, because the ore wealth in Kosovo is big and the appetites of Western countries are just as big. Cheap purchases, land will be picked up, they will make good use of it, people from Kosovo will settle in Ljubljana, Slovenia, they will get social support, as they already get, everything will go to our backs. What about our people? But we will push our people aside – I hope you will not do it. This was done by the former government when it really didn't care what happened to the Slovenians. I believe you don't think so. But there's gonna have to be something that doesn't happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are voting on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Now you have the floor, Mr. Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u32	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! The greatest threat to mankind and the planet in this century is climate change. This is pointed out by virtually unanimous global science, which has reached 97% agreement on them. After all, young people after Slovenia have warned about this. On 15 March this year, as many as 12,000 gathered in various Slovenian cities and demanded one and a clear thing from politics: climate justice to generations to come. Finally, we are reminded of the seriousness of climate change by the United Nations, from that IPCC assessment, which says that we must take decisive steps by 2030 to reduce CO2 emissions by 40% if we want to keep the temperature in this century within a 1.5-degree increase, which is, for example, a framework in which we can count on natural systems to remain stable, to a report issued by the UN last week that warns us that a million species of animals and plants in the world are at risk of extinction. It's our fault, people. This is just the beginning. Scientists point out that if we do not take action – and we must act now by 2030 – temperatures can rise from 4 to 8 degrees to 2100 in this century, meaning that certain parts of the earth will become insurmountable, which will mean that the climate will become unstable, natural systems will collapse and go off balance, which will also result in social consequences – from wars, hunger, large migrations and so on. Such a future can lie ahead if we do not act. What worries me here is that our government doesn't take it seriously. Last week, a draft national energy and climate programme was submitted to Brussels and, look out, we were the worst of all 28 Member States. That's the grade we got. 3.2 is not an estimate of 5.2 or 10.3.2 is an estimate of 100. We got 3.2 points out of 100. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Prime Minister, in the following matters: First time. On the Committee that we had with young people for climate justice on 9 April, on the initiative of the Left, we agreed that within 30 days, the Government will define up to ten requirements for young people's movement for climate justice. 40 days have passed since, there is no definition nor has there been any implementation of the conclusions. That's why I'm first interested: When will you identify yourself to these requirements? Another time. I want to know: How do you plan to reduce CO2 emissions by 40% by 2030? Third time: How do you comment on the fact that we, Slovenia, were the worst of all European countries, according to the draft national energy and climate plan?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u34	Thank you very much. First, let me start at the time when you were talking about how we sent a bad draft. This was not sent now, this was sent at the end of December. This is an assessment by a non-governmental organisation. After recent informal discussions with the European Commission, the European Commission considers it a good draft of what we are doing now. What you were saying or what they were evaluating was earlier. I would not explain it now for a long and broad time, but from March, when the government stepped down, until the start of the new government, it has been a long time, and at that time, in the course of the ongoing business, things have not moved to this extent so that everyone is satisfied. However, the Ministry of Environment and Space has set up a rather ambitious environmental policy by 2050 and Slovenia is within the European Union in a group of more ambitious countries. Thus, it is not considered that the points you are referring to would be relevant to this. Now we have a debate, and we haven't talked about climate as much as we should, because we've talked about brexit all the time. But our country is among the more ambitious. The targets set are achievable, but we will have to make quite a lot of effort by 2030, especially our problem is famous TES 6. At the current level of energy we have, or at the current structure, it is difficult to count on ambitious targets to be achieved. The last time I spoke on the Zlatoličje power plant's anniversary, I made it clear to all the energy people in this country to sit together and prepare a concept of how we're going to produce electricity, in what way. But in this place, I have to tell those Mura fighters who attacked me last time that I didn't take the time for them, the coalition agreement here is clear: it's not a dilemma to build on Mura or not, we won't build on Mura, we've said that clearly and loudly. But why am I talking about energy? Because it is crucial where we get the energy for these ambitious goals that we have. We do a lot of work, we are among the first in the field of plastic bags and other things, but our energy picture is that question of how we will then achieve our goals by 2050. And with us, we wouldn't have windmills, we wouldn't have thermal power plants, we wouldn't have water power plants. But you're gonna have to tell me where? That's an essential question. We need the energy industry to do our homework on this and determine how we are going to generate energy. Once we have all this clearly worked out, then there will be no problem. Today, we receive a lot of energy from TER 6, we know that the missed investment was misguided, that it will have to be closed. Until TEM 6 is closed, it will be difficult to achieve the goals we want in terms of decarbonization and similar matters. That's why there's a lot of questions. Instead of talking all the time about where someone is going to sit in some control councils, they're going to shag the left-hand side, and this one doesn't like it, they don't like it, and so on, instead they're going to have to sit together at the same table. This is the goal of both this government and me personally. This is my proposal here to achieve our goals by 2050. And one more time to conclude. Our government is among the ambitious. We now know the debate around Poland, which depends on coal and so on. Slovenia is certainly in a society of ambitious countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u36	Only our government agrees that our government is ambitious about climate objectives. For professional ratings are devastating, as we have seen before, 3.2 out of 100 points. Equally devastating are the commitments you make or do not accept. According to my information, we will miss the targets on the quantity of electricity produced from renewable energy sources to be produced in 2020. This goal will no longer be achieved. Another time. While we are discussing how to reduce the carbon footprint by 40% in Slovenia, virtually the government and the coalition are avoiding any debate on TES 6. For the last time, we have tried to make a binding decision to close by 2030, which is a 10-year framework for setting up an alternative to employment in that region, to put in place alternatives to replace energy depletion with renewable sources, but this decision has been rejected. And the third time. About three weeks ago, we proposed – with us transporting 32% of all CO2 emissions into the atmosphere – that now, at the beginning of the 21st century, it is not going to extend the Ljubljana bypass to the third belt, but rather to invest up to 1.2 billion in the modernisation of rail lines, which are significantly more environmentally sustainable. That was rejected, too. So we repeat the question: Mr. Prime Minister, how do you plan to achieve a 40% reduction in CO2 by 2030, which I do not commit to, but is committed to by the government to signing the Paris Agreement and other conventions?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u37	Here you go, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u38	The moon, when I listen to you like this in your left ear, I'm a little surprised – you said again exactly what I said before. I mentioned it myself. Of course, we will have to close it because I said just before that we will not achieve the results we want with TES. But it is true that I am calling here for sound reflection. I'm just giving you a dilemma. Some of us would shut down all the water power plants. We'd close Krška. We'd close Tash. I'm just asking, where did the energy come from? You also have a smart phone and a computer that you can then publish something publicly that you just said here. Without energy, that's not gonna happen. And for Slovenia, the key question will be by 2050, and somewhere else, because today Slovenia is based on energy facilities that were built years ago, I do not know how many years ago. We need to ask ourselves whether we, who will now go to a different way of thinking, will our generation be the one who will create and change something, so that the craftsmen can say in 100 years that we have done something in this period. And that's exactly what you said, and you said that only the government isn't true, I explained to you before nicely that this non-governmental organization that judged this to be irrelevant in this case. [[…]] I told you this was sent last year. And, of course, we are not satisfied with the results. That's what I always say. You'll never hear me say I'm the best, and I don't know what. The fact is, we have a lot to do. But the key question is how to close the TER, when to close the TER and how to replace it. We will have to start talking about the second block of nuclear power if we want to supply Slovenia with energy. You know, these are serious questions, serious questions and issues not only of the second track, but of the whole railway infrastructure. There the power grid is so outdated that God has mercy. That's what Director Mes himself said. We're very well aware of that. I believe everyone, not just the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u40	Thank you. I agree. These issues are serious and even more serious is the climate crisis. What bothers me is that we have been talking about the climate crisis since the beginning of the millennium. But since the alarms have so far been ignored by governments, we have come to consume 40% more coal in the world in 2019 than we did in 2000. It's a state, it's a gap between a rumor and what's going on. In this government, I started to see similar patterns in these cases that I counted. There is no willingness to have a serious discussion, let alone actions. I'm glad you agree that TESH will have to close, but what we need is a timeline and a plan. I don't think anyone else will do that. You yourself said earlier that the ILO has set ambitious climate targets. But I got the information when I was preparing for this issue, and I saw in the information of the Government Committee on the Economy that this climate report, if so called, had been postponed for the second time from this meeting. The Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Economy are expected to have some concerns about these objectives. I wonder if we could see this, if we could see what it says in there, what these reservations are, and I also think that this is a good basis for a debate on climate policy in the National Assembly, which I think is necessary. Like I said last time on TV, there's been a lot of talk about migration in this country. But as a representative of the Millennium generation, I am significantly more concerned and threatened by climate change than migration. 20 years from now, I would not want to live in a world full of wars, famines, droughts, climate disasters, decaying natural systems and so on. Therefore, once again, I urge both the Government and the National Assembly to take these matters seriously and to move from words to action. As for the NIPP assessment, I would not agree with you, Prime Minister, that this is irrelevant. I think that's relevant, twice. For the first time, because we burned at the professional level, and for the second time, because we burned at the professional level before the whole of Europe. Our motto should be somehow not the biggest, so we'll be the best. But apparently that other part is quite the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u41	Thank you. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. You still have the floor for the Prime Minister, Mr Matjaž Han. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President of the National Assembly. Honourable President of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, ministers and ministers! True, it is more difficult to rule than to be in opposition. But let's just leave it alone, and let's not let this generation focus on who lives today at this time. Slovenia has been working for almost a decade to introduce a new long-term care system. As one of the fastest growing or ageing countries among the members of the European Union, we have a marked problem in this area. We lack vacancies in nursing homes, homes for the elderly are too expensive, and home - to - house care systems vary; in some congregations, this works well; in other congregations, it is a little worse. For investments, if we want to change all these things, we need 250 million euros in this country to build new homes for the elderly to build new neighborhoods where older people can better wait for their age. Because of the sudden ageing of the population and disease, such as dementia, we all know what dementia means, it radically deteriorates from year to year. The first systemic attempt to tell you has already been made in the Pahor government. At that time, the situation in the budget and in the finances was significantly different when they are today. On this basis, former Minister Anja Kopač Mrak has already prepared a starting point for the drafting of the proposed law in 2014, but in the previous government we have all probably decided together to resolve this problem from the health department and not from the social sector. Then a law was passed, which was stuck in public debate, there were many concerns, some concerns were also relevant. One of the main concerns was that age does not only bring sickness, it also brings loneliness, poverty, exclusion, costs, because it has small pensions and reduced income. That is why it is the task of all of us, President of the Government, to establish a system that will answer everything as much as possible, not just some questions from the elderly. Once again, the public debate has shown that we need an integrated approach, complementing both the social and health aspects of providing assistance to the elderly. Since you are the Prime Minister of the Government, because you are the first of the same, I ask you in some way: Has this government already prepared a legal timeline, saying that we are saving long - term care for our people? What are the basic legal solutions to this marriage because it is very important? Above all, I appeal, but I have been a member of Parliament for some time now that the President of the Government is here as the first of the same. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your question. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u44	Thank you very much. You once asked me on the Planet at a pre-election hearing, why the hell am I the most popular, and I came from Kamnik. Obviously because it was known that all the problems of this country were waiting for me or waiting. So little to unload. I will not go down for reasons that the government or coalitions so far have remained more involved in the design of solutions. I'll admit it didn't work out for your secretary before, and not for the minister of health in the previous government. But I'm sorry it didn't happen. Just like the demographic fund, because it's a very similar story. Anyway, let's just drop it. The provision of long-term care is now left to this government, and that is a fact. A number of issues related to long-term care concern not only ministries, but not just health care, but a wider social consensus. Financing is already one of such issues, but on this further. You're asking me about a proposal for time dynamics in the adoption of the law. Yeah, this one's ready. According to the Ministry of Health scenario, the Government would put the law into parliamentary procedure in November this year, which is expected to be definitively adopted – at least this is the plan – no later than April next year. About the basic substantive solutions you're asking. Long-term care must be an integrated service. It will intertwine with the system of social and health care and thus ensure an integrated treatment of what it needs. It will represent a combination of basic and supporting daily tasks and health care services that will depend on both the user's needs and wishes, and the user will have to be actively involved in both the planning process and the provision of services. I am aware that those who depend on the help of others, as well as their relatives, know or live under social and material pressures. As a country, even as a society, we will have to face the challenges of an ageing society not only but also to respond to them. According to current estimates, an additional €180 million will be needed to implement the envisaged long-term supply solutions. Extra. And that raises the question: where to take it? Would as a society aware of the consequences of ageing agree with the introduction of compulsory social security for long-term care? Would you agree to this start-up meeting? Would you find a consensus to reshape and upgrade the health insurance company? This is not the last thing written in the coalition agreement. Why am I listing all this? Because you're asking me how I see my role in coordinating different departments and interests. I can tell them about the supplies, because despite the occasional problems they can agree on. Sometimes there are personal interests that prevail elsewhere, perhaps even in this temple of democracy, but I believe we all have the same goal, and that is a dignified age. I believe this timeline is real if we all stick to it. I repeat to the end: sometimes I really feel that all the problems have waited for this government in various areas. And if we are all in favour of this, then this long-term supply law will also be passed, as will the law on the demographic fund, and not finally the law that has nothing to do with it, but is called electoral law. I believe we'll be able to find a solution there, and next time we'll vote for the new law. But this is about the same in all areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. This concludes questions for the President of the Government, and we are moving, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to the questions raised at the 7th meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandra Pivec, should answer Mrs Lidija Dijak Mirnik's question, but she is absent today. I ask the Member whether he insists on an oral response or whether he wants a written reply from the Minister. The Member State agrees with the written reply. We are now moving on to questions from Members of Parliament and Members, the so-called first round. Mr. Jan Mahnic, you have a question for the Minister of Culture of Mag. Zoran Poznicz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, President! Respectable government, colleagues and colleagues! My question is addressed to the Minister and it is on the topic of local media. We know that the media are very important and, above all, it is important that we also have a good local network of media caring for the information programme, by raising awareness and informing the people and the people about the issues coming from the local environment. With regard to the current media law – Slovenia is expected to allocate 3% of its annual contribution to Radiotelevision Slovenia from the budget, but this has only been done during the period of the government of Janez Janša. There has been progress in technology, which is of course positive, but digital broadcasting in particular will continue to overwhelm the provisions of the law, which stipulate that local media should not spread across this particular area. One of the main arguments for State aid is this local limitation. The main question, Mr. Minister, is for you: Do you agree that the media covering the local area are, in particular, media implementing an information programme at the local level, still and especially this government in the national interest? There's a lot of concentration going on right now. Virtually all radio stations are concentrated in the hands of two people: Lea Cloud and Martin Godzák. It was interesting to monitor how it prohibited or prevented the sale of Pop TV KKR because unfair competition would occur and, on the other hand, this unfair competition was allowed in two which concentrated the power of local radio stations. Then we have a call for local news and – what happens? Radios, which are still independent, of these two radio networks, which provide this independence more difficult day by day, shall be tendered for local news. They get the money and they have to produce this local news on their own. However, we have an example of radio networks where radio stations also sign up for this call. Every radio station for local news gets money, and then local news is one and the same for the whole network. So Infonet makes the local news and these radios, these radio stations buy it off Infonet. My main question, Minister, is: What are you going to do in this area? Can we expect protection and assistance for the further independence of those local radio stations that, once again, maintain sovereignty towards these two greatests?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador! Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u48	Your Honor, thank you for asking me this question. The answer is really very complex and wide, but I will try to be as brief as possible. Of course, it is in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia to support all locals, so to speak, to independent media. It is also true that we have not yet reached these quotas of 3%, which is our commitment. However, I must point out that in recent years we are again approaching numbers that will meet this quota of 3%. For information from 2004 to the previous year, the State of Slovenia has allocated over €43 million to these independent local media. More than 2 million funds have been distributed this year alone. In all these years, the largest number of televisions has been between TVs, I think that over 2 million has won TV Novo Mesto, and between radio stations, if I am not mistaken, the radio fire station also has a very high amount of money, I think over a million and a half euros. Of course, the Ministry of Culture is also bound by laws in force in the Republic of Slovenia. So we are aware of these problems as regards the concentration of some media, as far as the establishment of these networks is concerned. However, the law states that the media must only play a role when the desire for ownership or management shares or voting rights exceeds 20 %. We haven't received such applications this year. Of course these are the problems. That is why we are also preparing a change, no longer far away, of media legislation that will adapt our legislation to everything that has been triggered by technology in recent years. These new technologies have also changed this media landscape in the field of television and radio programmes in the background. On the other hand, substantial resources are also allocated to local media. When I tell the locals, I say it'll be more understandable, which means whose founders are local communities. So, the congregations. There are also legal provisions that prevent the media from financing by the State if it is financed by more than 50% of the local community. This is indeed one conglomerate of various solutions that we will try to unify with this new media legislation. But I can assure you that it will also be on your tables this year. And once again, I repeat, we are still aware of all these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u50	Thank you, President. As far as the new media legislation is concerned, Mr. Minister, I would like to know: How will it define the financing of local radios? It seems to me that the congregations are founders. For example, Radio Sora, a number of congregations have a share there. But this radio is extremely rich in content, as far as the information program is concerned, with local news. And in this, these local radio stations, like Radio Gorenc, are different from those big networks where some news is just mentioned and the content is more empty. I know things are complicated. We are talking not least about the media and some independence. I probably don't mind ownership, but there's actually a concentration here where two people control the entire media scheme in the area of radio. I can probably expect some negative news about me in these Outgoing media, because this is happening all the time. We know which political option Mr. Departure belongs to. But this is just an additional incentive to think about it and to believe that it is difficult for us to talk about independent media. Someone calls Mr. Departure, look, there's a Mahnič, order or there a Reporter or News or Council 24 some negative news about him. So in this place, we can't talk about independent media. Above all, it is essential to protect the media and further help them, acting independently from policies that operate independently of a kind of ownership structure, which are actually trying to enrich their programme in a way that the public, the target audience, say two radios in Gorenjska, represent local issues, local content that are independent of policy. But I believe that's for a lot of trouble. Once again, Minister, if you can be a little more specific: What will you do to help in this regard?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u51	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u52	Thank you. All these cases, all these desires after monopolisation and concentration of ownership, are managed by the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of Competition. However, at this point, I can ensure that the new media legislation is still quite thorough, without prejudice, but to put it this way, it expresses concern for these local media and it is the whole community that is still independent, so to speak, that our society is very important and will also continue to be supported in other ways. Of course, we must not forget that the principle of a private economic initiative actually faces a conflict of interest, which is also permissible and what is not. As a fundamental social society, the country can support what is truly in its interest, and this can be ensured by the new media legislation, which, of course, would not go into detail right now and will take care of all these things that you have rightly addressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please. Procedural proposal, I presume.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u54	The President, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the Minister's reply be discussed. Although he has indicated some things in which direction it will go, I think it is useful to discuss in the National Assembly what kind of media we want to have, and I think that the media, which are independent, will make sure that, as they like to say in our country, not in the Radio Sora, the local news is the queen to ensure that people and residents are informed, especially by local communities where interest is. There are many things going on in the countryside, or we have many events that we cannot present otherwise than through local independent media. I believe that in some network of Currents or Radio 1 against which there will be no mistake, I have nothing, I also like to listen to them not least, but it is difficult to come on some kind of radio with an event that is irrelevant in the sense that the whole of Slovenia knows about it, and it is certainly important for the local community. Director Radio Sora and I were already at a meeting with the former Minister for Culture, where we discussed the topic of local media. When we were with the Defence Committee on a visit to the USSR, I also gave an initiative where there is a typical example of what is the advantage of local media when it comes to natural and other accidents. Let's say Radio Sora has an on-call phone number that the Civil Protection Command has, and in case there's any serious natural or other accidents at a time when there's no one on the radio, because there's radios where there's no 24-hour-a-day technique, call that on-call number and it's on-line, so people are informed. There is no such thing on any other radio, but this is of paramount importance, and it would also be worth considering doing something about it. But that's another topic that concerns other ministries. I think it is useful to hold a debate in the National Assembly, to make changes to media legislation, to discuss how we will further protect these independent local radio stations in the law and, above all, how it will be financed. We can say that they complain or complain that there is, we can also say, some dumped prices when it comes to advertising and are somehow exposed to some kind of bluff or back - up arrangements by those major radio stations. Local radio stations are so much harder to get advertisers and thus the necessary funding. This makes it all the more important that high finances are received by the state, and above all it is important that we continue to follow and prepare such calls that reward those rich cultural content local programmes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Mr Aleksander Reberšek, you have a question for the absent Minister, Aleš Šabedr, so I would like to know whether you want a written answer or an oral answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! You have certainly been aware of the discontinuation of emergency medical care and the departure of three family medicine doctors from the Nazarje health house. It doesn't matter why they left, the fact is that they're gone and that 4 thousand 500 inhabitants of the Upper Savinja Valley have lost a doctor. Unfortunately, trained and trained doctors are leaving Slovenia, which has caused us to be forced to invite doctors from third countries. The director of Nazarje Medical Home informed me that she sees no other option than to hire doctors from a third country who understandably speak Slovenian. Their intention is allegedly hampered by the Ministry of Health, which failed to set up a commission within five months to decide on the appropriateness of hiring specific doctors from third countries, for which they have submitted an application. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: When will the Commission take up and implement the procedure to end the five-month agony of agreeing to the employment of two doctors from Bosnia and Herzegovina on the proposal of the Nazarje Health House and to have adequate primary care for the people of the Upper Savinja Valley? Since the Minister is absent today, I want a written reply, and above all a solution in the shortest possible time, because patients, citizens and citizens of the Upper Savinja Valley cannot wait. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Violeta Tomić, you have a question for also absent Minister Simon Zajc. Do you want a written answer or an oral one? An oral response.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. In all the cracking events in Petišovci, something smells amazing, but not just the gas. We now have another minister from the Modern Centre Party, who is actually at the declaratory level advocating that the cracking does not occur, but despite the function and power that comes with it, he does nothing to actually stop it. So we get the impression that it's just some pierra that creates a smoke screen for some unusual back-up business. Why do I say that? Unauthorised influences and unacceptable pressure on employees have been found, the principles of independence and independence of the Authority and the work of the officials have been violated, and even the Director of the Agency has flown away. So it's obvious that the British lobbyists illegally influenced our officials, but the environmental permit for the refinery was obtained. Arso, however, demanded an environmental impact assessment, which every investor in our country, from Lafarge to Kemis, did and eventually obtained all the permits. Having reduced the number of SMC ministers and Members, it is obvious that it is very good to take care of its people. That is also the case with Mr Zajc, after he was not elected to the National Assembly, first became secretary at the ILO and now he is minister, his office manager is former SMC Member Andreja Potočnik and Director Arsa will be Lilliana Kozlovič, who is, look, the former Secretary-General of the Cerarova Government. That we don't even talk about how the former SMC officials land on a variety of well-paid services, from ambassadors to directors. For the picture to be complete, the president of this party, Miro Cerar, in his role as foreign minister, met with the British Foreign Minister, who, by the way, did not even know whether he was in Slovenia or Slovakia. We learned from the media that the main topic of these conversations was something other than the great problems of the British corporation in obtaining a cracking license. I deeply regret that the Minister, the former SMC Member, is not here today, but I want clear answers to how he thinks fracking will stop forever and how to ban it, because in Prekmurje we are in danger of environmental disaster. I want to know how it will protect people and nature in Petišovci. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u59	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. The Minister will have to answer next time. Now you have the floor, Mr Nick Prebil, to be Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenko Bratusek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Over the past few months, more and more articles on the topic that I am exposing today are emerging in the media in the area of the legitimate use of electric skiers. They are both with us and elsewhere in Europe in terms of urban mobility in an ever-increasing increase. In most cases, users of such skiers, as well as other special means of transport, are interested in reaching the goal as quickly as possible as they can on foot. Among other things, the media reported that the market for the sharing of skiroes has already demanded the first victims both in business – some have failed – as well as among users due to accidents and injuries, most of them in the United States of America, of course. However, electric skiers are already presented as a solution to the transport and transport problems of large urban centres, including Ljubljana, of course, and thus in connection with this, care for a cleaner environment, in addition to solving overloaded public transport systems and reducing the number of cars on the streets. Let us see what the existing law says about this. The Road Traffic Rules Act in point 3 of the so-called special means of transport is considered to be those means of transport which are not defined in the Motor Vehicle Act, but by their use it is possible to reach a speed exceeding the speed of the pedestrians. Among the latter are electric skiers. In accordance with Article 97, such funds are quoted as follows: "They are used only on sidewalks, on foot roads and on bicycle routes and in pedestrian and quiet areas, depending on their size. Users of special means of transport shall not obstruct or endanger pedestrians and cyclists. The way and speed of movement must adapt to traffic conditions and their speed must not exceed the maximum speed at which the pedestrians can move.” Therefore, if I sum up, on sections where cycling routes are not built or defined, the use of electric skiers is thus prohibited, and the use of these in road transport is also prohibited and, in accordance with the seventh paragraph of this Article, Article 97, with a fine of EUR 500, is punishable by a road traffic participant acting contrary to what has been said. Therefore, if we are fully accurate, the use of electric skiers for Slovenian users is more or less totally prohibited. That's how I'm interested, Madam Secretary, in: Would it make sense to unify — and it seems to me that it is possible — the rules on the use of electric skiers in road transport with the rules applicable to bikers? Therefore, it is also safe, in accordance with Article 34, to say at least 18 years of age with regard to the mandatory use of a helmet. I'm also interested in: When can we expect the first draft of the amendment to the Road Traffic Rules Act, which will also eliminate the anomaly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u62	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the very current question. Yes, in Slovenia, as elsewhere in Europe, we are facing an increase in the use of special means of transport in road transport driven by an engine, where electricity skier also belongs. The legal arrangements for the use of electric skiers are therefore very topical both in Slovenia and in the European Union. What is today's arrangement, you've read it yourself, so I'm not going to recapture the existing law. Of course, we are already dealing with this problem, and we are also looking at practices. The fact is, some countries have already settled, they no longer have these things arranged, but that's not an obstacle for us not to handle it. The Road Traffic Rules Act will not only include this solution, but a few others. It is envisaged that by the beginning of the summer, in accordance with regular procedures in the National Assembly, it will be adopted somewhere by the end of this year. This issue, which you are referring to, will, of course, be included in the law, in addition to other solutions that will be included in the law. However, in road safety it is always so necessary to protect the weakest, so you have previously correctly concluded that the use of electric skirro under the existing law at this time is not so much allowed that I do not use any other, slightly harsher word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u63	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u64	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I will do something else to complement you as you mentioned, this trend is really high and the use of these electric skiers will certainly increase in our country, as it increases elsewhere in Europe, but here are some questions. [[…]] The use of the so-called sharing or sharing of these electric skiers is also expected to increase and I am interested in the fact that you said that you are working hard and that you are following the practice if any analysis of the effects of these vehicles on existing traffic in Slovenia is possible. In Germany, for example, the route was opened to electric skiers with certain restrictions, the same in France, and they were banned somewhere. I may also be interested in the use of the insurance issue here – something about this, as far as I know, is already being prepared at European Union level, but still – what is the opinion of the Ministry on the possible appropriate compulsory insurance of electric skiers in case of an accident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u65	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u66	Thank you. These are all questions that will be answered by changes in the law, and of course there will also be analyses that must be part of the law, an annex or an explanation of the law, as I have said. It is anticipated that the law will be on your desks by the beginning of the summer, and until then, without the professional basis and arrangements of my personal opinions, I do not wish to make this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u67	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mag. Carmen Furman, you have a question for two ministers for mag. Ksenija Klampfer and Minister Boštjan Poklukar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! Despite an amendment to legislation in 2016 to prevent fictitious registration of residences and on the basis of this abuse of social transfers of foreigners, the latter is apparently still taking place. In fact, not long ago, we were able to retrace the news in the media that the spouses had 547 people reported in their address in the one-story house. In the wake of the amendment of the legislation, it was said that these shortcomings would be remedied, but the reply of the Government of 9 May 2019 to the sent question, as well as to such media-response cases, shows that the problems in practice are still unfortunately still. Government data show that the number of permanent residence permits for foreigners increased by 52 % in a good year. Compared to last year's year, the first three months of this year saw a 58% increase in the granting of temporary and permanent residence permits for foreigners. A third of these foreigners go to other countries and enjoy the ratings of the social and health system. In a year's time, couples and children who are also entitled to various social transfers, such as monetary social assistance, children's allowance, free kindergartens, scholarships, health insurance and the like, will join foreigners on the basis of the right to family reunification. Thus, the amounts of social assistance received to foreigners and their families have increased enormously over the last four years, in some centres by more than 50%. The recorder is the Centre for Social Work of Lower Podravje, where this amount is higher by 67%. In all centres, the number of foreign recipients of social transfers has increased and I am interested in: What will be the next measure of the Ministry of the Interior, in addition to some of the professional guidelines you have already given, that such abuses will no longer take place when more than ten hundred foreigners report to the same address? Or when and when will you legally define the surface standards for applying for residence in the individual housing unit? What measures and when will the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities propose to eliminate these anomalies? However, since social transfers are also included in the livelihoods of family members of foreigners, I am interested in: Will you and when will you change the legislation so that social transfers will no longer be taken into account as livelihoods? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u69	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Madam Minister, the Minister gives you the upper hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. While most of the answer concerns the Aliens Act, which is in the field of the Ministry of the Interior, I would focus on the issue raised by the Ministry of Labour. The Ministry of Labour, together with the Ministry of the Interior, is involved in informing the centres for social work about the identification of abuses and reported abuses to administrative units. CSDs may check the reality of the data in the competent administrative units. Let me just say that for the sake of simplicity, the information system of the Centre for Social Work is linked to the register of the permanent population and, at the moment it changes with the specific person or with the specific party of residence, it is also visible at the Centre for Social Work or in the information system. Only the reality of the data can, of course, be checked by social work centres in administrative units. However, if social work centres or officials find any irregularity in the conduct of the proceedings, they may apply to the administrative unit for the purpose of verifying the reality of the data to determine their permanent residence. In accordance with this initiative, the administrative unit shall, on an official basis, establish an administrative procedure for determining the actual permanent residence and, of course, inform the centre of social work after the completion of the procedure. The administrative unit here has several options, either to establish a second residence or to find that such a person is not in the Republic of Slovenia, it can also be deleted from the register of permanent residents and then the person loses all social rights. However, not all social rights are linked to permanent residence. For example, the right to financial social assistance, the right to payment of compulsory insurance contributions, the right to a security allowance, the right to exceptional financial assistance, the right to a subsidy and the right to a state grant are linked to permanent residence. Other rights, however, relate to temporary residence, such as the right to kindergarten, the right to a child allowance, as this is in accordance with European Regulation 883. For example, the right to grant lunch and lunch subsidies does not require permanent or temporary residence at all, but merely the status of the schooling in the Republic of Slovenia. However, as far as the end of your question is concerned, that social transfers should not be taken into account in the proof of the provision of sufficient means of subsistence, which is laid down in the Aliens Act. This is the area of the Ministry of the Interior and not of the Ministry of Labour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u71	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member! Employees in administrative units shall prevent any abuse of the address of the institution, in particular by the consistent implementation of the provisions of the law. The application itself shall verify the status of a foreigner and the right to reside on the address. Before making the application, a procedure for verifying the authenticity of the application may be introduced if the party fails to provide the relevant evidence, and in the event of a suspicion that it is a fictitious application, since a larger number of persons have already been reported at this address. In the event of the suspected abuse of the institution of residence registration, the administrative unit may also establish a procedure for determining permanent and temporary residence in relation to the application already made. On the basis of the procedure established, an individual’s decision to apply to another address in the Republic of Slovenia or abroad shall provide him with a legal residence, if his or her residence cannot be determined, and the individual’s application of his or her residence on the basis of a final decision issued in this procedure may also be terminated. Let me add that employees of the Ministry have carried out extensive training of administrative units before the application of the law. The Ministry of the Interior also gives general instructions and guidance to administrative units concerning the enforcement of the provisions of the law and the use of transactions in the register. At the same time, administrative units are reminded of possible abuses of the institution of residence registration, which we are tracking or alerted to. Here, too, I must say that there are fictitious reporting abuses in the sense of criminalization of false content, which the police have also addressed. In May 2018, it also provided guidance on the implementation of the provisions of the Law on Foreigners and the Law on Registration of Residences to administrative units in relation to these cases, which are dealt with at a given address. Let me also say that Minister Medved and I discussed the last case in Šentilj and also agreed to give the administrative units a special direction as Minister, how in these procedures. And here, in fact, the police are also preventing all illegal practices under the Aliens Act or the Residence Registration Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Ambassador, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u74	Thank you very much for the explanations given. Dear Minister, Minister! I thank the Minister for further clarifications in connection with the records of social work centres and administrative units, but I would like to answer my question what measures and when your ministry intends to prepare so that such anomalies will no longer occur in practice. Because if they do, then the records aren't enough. Some additional measures are needed. Indeed, our scholarships are paid only for the status of a student in the Republic of Slovenia, and it is unfortunate that scholarships are also paid to some scholarships or recipients who do not actually reside in Slovenia. As far as the answer is concerned, Madam Minister, I agree that migration will, but will, be some kind of fictitious application and abuse of social transfers. The fact is that, by amending the legislation, we have put in place certain levers or mechanisms, and administrative units have thus become a criminal body and have obtained some additional powers to determine the actual situation on the ground. However, I would like your answer to what you will do to ensure that this area is regulated so that the amendments to the legislation governing the procedure of the official authorities towards foreigners in order to prevent fictitious applications of foreign residences will no longer be implemented in practice. In fact, I believe that additional powers need to be given to provide additional human resources reinforcements so that effective monitoring can also be carried out in practice. So I would like to know whether you will provide them or at least suggest additional human resources reinforcements in the control of fictitious residence applications, to what extent and to what extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u75	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. The word is given by the Government, Madam Minister on her behalf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u76	Thank you very much for complementing the question. I may only repeat this once again – as far as the fictitious applications themselves are concerned, this is not governed by legislation covered by the Ministry of Labour, but is governed by the Law on the Registration of Residence, which falls within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, and the right of registration is, of course, governed by the Law on Foreigners, so that any abuse detected by the centres of social work must, as such, be immediately notified to administrative units and administrative units, are those who initiate the procedure for determining the actual permanent residence. These procedures are guided both by the help of the police and by interviews of neighbours and others who would be able to say more about the residence of individuals. I agree, however, that abuses may occur in the area as such, and if they are detected by the centres, they must take appropriate action. If you have any specific cases with you, Madam Member, we would be very pleased if you would provide them to us and we will examine them accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u77	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Secretary, do you want more? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member! As a matter of fact, employees in administrative units have the possibility to check the registration of the address of their residence or temporary residence at the beginning of the registration. The first step is, of course, an administrative unit, and it is within the competence of the Ministry of Public Administration, so that I cannot actually give you this part of the answer. As for the powers of the Ministry of the Interior, we, as soon as we, in fact, began to question these abuses publicly, examined the procedure itself and, as I told you earlier, also in agreement with the Minister of Public Administration, verified how much of this is and how these things should be dealt with. Police have filed several criminal charges in connection with the suspicion of criminal services, the verification of false content and the falsification of documents. The police act here on the basis of information received from other services and then investigate these suspected abuses in connection with offences or offences. Here, too, it must be said that in the recent media disclosure, where more persons were fictitiously reported in the apartment house, a criminal complaint was made against the competent State Prosecutor's Office. So the police always act professionally and legally in this matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u79	Thank you. Madam Members, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u80	In view of all these media-discovered matters, and probably a lot of undiscovered ones, it is a fact that the system does not work in practice. However, the result of fictitious residence applications is, of course, an ever-increasing payment of social transfers to foreigners and their families. I believe, however, that we may also need to follow the example of a Republic of Austria, Germany, where, in recent times, changes in legislation have also been adopted so that such matters in practice would no longer occur in their case, as they are, after all, confronted with the same practice as in our country. For example, the Republic of Austria introduced a compulsory use of German, or at least English, a month ago, unless foreigners know it. Then they also have reduced social transfers. I think that this is such a deliberate measure, which our government should consider after all, because in this case, in some way, the rights of foreigners are being violated, they sign employment contracts here and in fact do not understand the content of these contracts. In view of the complementary response I have received from the Minister and from the Minister, I must say that I am not satisfied in some way, so I propose, in accordance with the possibility of the rules of procedure for addition or further discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u81	Thank you for your proposal, Madam Ambassador. We are voting on your motion tomorrow in the framework of the vote. You have the floor, Mr Dušan Šiško, for the absent Minister, Mr Simon Zajc. I would like to know whether you want a written answer or an oral answer at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u82	Your Honor! In 2021 Coal Velenje was granted permission to mine coal. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that it would be necessary to consider, when extending the concession, a law on rent that would address the issue of compensation for environmental degradation, which would fully cover the operation of Premogovnik Velenje. According to our information, this excavation is now only performed in the area of the municipality of Šostjanj and TES, which is actually located in the city of Šostanj. In addition to the already known effects of operations such as the smell, the shaking of the soil, citizens are also concerned about the intended imports of coal, the burning of waste and even the early closure of both energy companies. The citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, on the one hand, are disappointed and at the same time resented that the local community still has no regulated legal basis on which they would be entitled annually to compensation. We know there are certain payments, but they are not arranged as necessary. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the issue of compensation for environmental degradation should not be a matter of cow trade. Members of the Slovenian National Party from Scotland are particularly interested in: Will the Ministry of the Environment, when extending the concession, again forget or bypass the inhabitants living in the area?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister will have the task of answering your question orally at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Matjaž Germany, you too have a question for two absent ministers, Mr Simon Zajc and Dr Aleksandro Pivec. Please also explain whether you want a written or oral answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like and request an oral response at the next meeting. I ask my question about the Accumulation Lake Vogršček. You yourself, the President, have been personally involved in this project in the previous term and also in your ministry. It is an accumulating lake that has been built in the previous country mainly to preserve agriculture and protect us from climate change in the lower part of the Vipava Valley. If I ask my question briefly, it's as follows. In the previous mandate, funds were provided, 85% were provided by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, 15% by the Ministry of Environment and Space, and for the past few months we have no information on how the reconstruction works are going and whether these procedures are even taking place. Madam President, I would like both ministers to answer the following question: How is all the documentation for the network and the barrier handled? When will the promised restoration work begin last year? We must be aware that agriculture will only be protected if conditions are created for this. Surely, in the 1980s, we have considered well how we will respond to the challenges of both climate change and the challenges of the need for agriculture and the maintenance of self-sustainment. So this is one of the key issues that is being updated today in particular. It is the responsibility of the State to take care of what has once been taken care of and in recent years so neglected and placed on the second track. So, I would like to be answered by the two ministries at the next government meeting, how are the reconstruction works going and when are they even going to start? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u85	Thank you, too. The next question will be presented by the mag. Marko Pogačnik, Minister of Finance Dr. Andre Bertonclj and Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr. Aleksandri Pivec, who is absent, I ask you to make your statement whether you want a written or oral reply from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u86	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I would like to ask a question from the Minister of Finance and from the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. Since the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry is absent today, I expect a written reply from her. Dear Minister, here you are, over the last period I have been approached by quite a few people, in relation to the cadastral revenue for the maintenance of forest roads. They warn me that the payment and share of the cadastral income of forest land under the new legislation is significantly higher than under the old legislation. I want to know: What can be done in this area? Because the fact is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Real Estate Tax Act in 2013. This legislation is supposed to enter into force on 1 January 2014, but as we know, the Constitutional Court then annulled this part and, in order to avoid the legal void created by repealing the law, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, inter alia, gave effect to the Regulation on the maintenance of forest roads, to a different legal regime from the taxation of immovable property. The regulation currently in force provides for a regulation on the maintenance fee for forest roads and that the fee is 14,7 % of the cadastral income of forest land. More people, as I mentioned at the outset, who have to pay these fees, have warned me that during the last period following this application this cost is increasing significantly, and even some predictions are that by 2020 there will be a threefold payment of what has been paid for, say, in 2016. I'm interested in your comment and what can be done about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u88	Your Honor! The method of calculating cadastral income is specified in detail by the Cadastrian Income Identification Act, namely the RS Office list 63/16, which is from 2016, the data to be obtained from the official data of the Statistical Office for Economic Accounts for Agriculture and Forestry and from data on agricultural and forestry land in the Earth disaster. The law provides that cadastral income must be calculated every three years on the basis of average economic account data for the last five years. Catastrophe forest income is calculated from the average revenue from the sale of wood for the past five years without taking into account the value of wood stocks or revenues from the sale of other forest goods. The revenue thus found shall be reduced by recognised standard expenditure of 80 % of the revenue. The economic calculation for forestry has already taken into account the impact of captures and thus lower revenues, which on average also reflects the level of the calculated cadastral income. Catastrophe income was calculated for the first time in accordance with that Law for 2017. This calculation was taken into account in 2017 at 40%, 55% in 2018 and 75% in 2019, all in accordance with the law adopted. For the first time, the full amount should be allocated to land in 2020 when new calculations are to be prepared in accordance with the ZUKD. The amount of flat-rate income estimated was around EUR 99 million in 2019 when the transitional period ended and it began to show in full. New data-based calculations for the last five years, from 2013 to 2017, show that the total cadastral income increases by around 11 % during the new three-year period. The main reason is the increase in income for forestry, which increases by a quarter according to economic account data. However, for the 2013-2017 average, the economic account data for agriculture show approximately the same income as the 2010-2016 average. Calculation index 2019, calculation index 2016 is 101.5. Within agriculture, the cadastral income for agricultural land remains zero and for permanent crops approximately the same as in the previous period. For olive groves it is reduced by about a third and for vineyards and hops it increases by about 16% for vineyards, and for hops it is obvious because of a few very unpleasant years of business by almost 74%. The new cadastral income scale goes to public hearing these days. New data must be officially published by 30 June.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, do you have a request to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u90	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, what you've said is about what we already know. I will now specifically read you some of the numbers sent to me by someone directly concerned with paying for this income. He wrote that in 2016, about €70 was paid for a fee for forest roads, which was still paid on the basis of the old cadastral income, on the new basis of the cadastral income of forest land, in 2020 he would have to pay EUR 212. That means three times, I'd say, that amount. And if we look at some more numbers ahead, in 2016 the forest road maintenance fee was about 1.5 euros per hectare of forest, but in 2020 it will amount to 4.5 euros per hectare of forest in new forest roads maintenance fees, which means three times as I have already mentioned. Where do you find a solution here? The Ministry of Agriculture will probably have to be involved, along with the Ministry of Finance, because if these calculations, the respected minister, as mentioned in this letter, hold, there is probably something wrong here now. I think it is necessary to find a solution here because paying fees for forest roads amounting to 4.5 euros per hectare of forest seems very high, even compared to what amounts were paid in 2016. I want to know: Do you have a solution, or do you have a way of thinking? What is the link with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u92	Once again, the cadastral income was first accounted for by the law of ZUKD, which is by the Act on the identification of cadastral income, which was adopted in 2017, i.e. in the previous reference. So you are certainly aware of this law, since you were in this reference at the time and then this law of ZUKD-2 already anticipated this increase in 2017, 2018 and 2019. So you know that. With regard to the measures, as I have already stated, the new cadastral income scale goes to public hearing in these days, so that I think this will be the right place to discuss it, and our ministry in this part will certainly be aligned with the bearer ministry, that is, the Ministry of Agriculture. However, as I can see, new data should be published by the end of next month, as indicated here on 30 June. So this will be now – I think the public debate will be a real place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next question will be raised by Mrs Mateja Udovč, Minister of Finance Andre Bertonclj. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. At your hearing last year, where you answered our questions as a minister's candidate, this time in the role of minister, I would like to remind you once again of the tax that the coalition treaty does not cover and the changes should already take place. My question is related to the tax on motor vehicles on fuel consumption and the increase in emissions. We all remember very well the Dieselgate affair at the end of 2015, where Volkswagen was caught in one of the biggest environmental scandals. On the basis of this affair, last September the European Union launched a new process of measuring carbon dioxide emissions. The new measurements are carried over by increased emission values which have a significant impact on the tax rate. After the previous period, new measurements are mandatory for all cars sold, and the fact is that this will result in the placing of the vehicle in a higher tax class and consequently a higher tax on motor vehicles, which can ultimately mean lower sales of vehicles. On the other hand, due to the so-called luxury tax — more than 2,000 cubic centimetres of motor vehicles — we are losing the country’s income. At the time of the introduction of the tax, the applicants expected EUR 7 million in revenue for the country, but soon after the entry into force of the law it appeared to have had a negative effect. The number of vehicles in this category has increased and the country's income under this heading is much lower than expected. Slovenian buyers prefer to register such vehicles abroad and pay all the appropriate fees there, because it is easier for them to pay, and the vehicles are used in Slovenia, burdening the road infrastructure with them and with releases burdening our environment. As the competent minister in the field of tax policy, I ask you: When will the Government prepare a proposal for amendments to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, which is needed for a new method of measuring consumption and emissions, the so-called WLTP Protocol? When can we expect the bill to be available for public hearing and for harmonisation in the legislative process? Does the Government have a solution to ensure that the way in which spending and discharges are measured and the new tax scale is determined does not result in an excessive increase in taxes? What do you intend to do in the area of additional taxes for motor vehicles over 2 thousand 500 cubic centimeters, the so-called luxury tax introduced in 2012? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Dear Member! A new regulatory test procedure for measuring CO2 emissions and fuel consumption, the so-called WLTP test procedure, has been introduced under transport legislation. Due to test conditions that are more appropriate to actual driving conditions, vehicle consumption and consequently CO2 emissions are measured in accordance with the new WLTP test procedure, higher than those measured in the old test procedure. Since the tax rate on motor vehicles is also linked to the environmental components of vehicles, the taxation shall take into account data on CO2 emissions of motor vehicles which are visible to each vehicle from the transport documentation. Due to the transitional period of introduction of new CO2 emissions measurements under European legislation, the recording of both CO2 emissions data is required, both following a new and an old test procedure for each motor vehicle, up to 31. 12. 2020. With 1. 1. 2021 All new motor vehicles subject to the motor vehicle tax will have CO2 emissions only after the new WLTP test procedure, this is the Worldwide Harmonized Light Vehicles Test Procedure, which will mean that the vehicle documents will indicate a higher CO2 emission value. For used vehicles for which only data will be available under the old NEDC test procedure, the documents will indicate the lower CO2 emissions. In view of the above, in practice, for new vehicles after 1. 1. 2021 there has been an increase in taxation on motor vehicles. Due to these non-compliances and also with the aim of further greening of the tax at the Ministry of Finance, we also pay particular attention to environmental aspects in determining the tax burden. The Ministry of Finance will therefore in 2019 draw up a proposal for a revised Motor Vehicle Tax Act, which is expected to be implemented by 1. 1. 2021, due to the above data and dates. By implementing the law governing the balancing of public finances, an additional tax on motor vehicles, the so-called luxury tax to which you apply, was introduced in 2012 in addition to the tax on motor vehicles. This tax is taxed on passenger vehicles with a volume of 2 000 cubic centimetres and wheels, tricycles and quadricycles with a volume of thousands of cubic centimeters. The purpose of the introduction of an additional tax on motor vehicles was to divide the burden of public financial consolidation into a larger group of debtors, meaning that the so-called luxury motor vehicles are additionally taxed. These are, as a rule, motor vehicles with more engine capacity and therefore the rate of additional tax on motor vehicles depends on the volume of the engine. Due to the high taxation of motor vehicles with an additional tax on motor vehicles, it can be seen in practice that the undertakings are registered with more volume abroad than you stated. While this is a problem in the field of transport legislation, the rules on where a motor vehicle may or must be registered, such behaviour also has public financial implications, as it avoids paying taxes on motor vehicles, additional taxes on motor vehicles, VAT, annual taxes on the use of registered vehicles in road transport, registration costs and insurance, and so on. Therefore, at the Ministry of Finance, we provide, in the context of the recast of the Tax Law on Motor Vehicles, for the regulation of a single tax and no longer for the basic tax and additional tax on motor vehicles.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The next one should ask the question of mags. Branko Grims, Minister of the Interior of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is detained. The next is Mr Blaž Pavlin, who will also raise a question to the Minister for the Interior, Mr Boštjan Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! The Law on State border control lays down beneficiaries and the procedure for fixing compensation for the difficult regular use of land for the purpose of exercising State border control and preventing unauthorised crossing of the state border. In accordance with Article 8a, beneficiaries may request compensation by 31 March of the current year for the previous year. Where more permanent and continuous use of these land is necessary to carry out the tasks of State border control and to prevent unauthorised crossing of the state border and therefore their difficult regular use takes more than 24 months, ownership rights on these land shall be temporarily burdened by the establishment of public service. In this case, the Ministry of the Interior shall, within six months of the adoption of the decision of the Government, initiate a procedure for the establishment of this service. I point out cases in practice where the competent Ministry of the Interior is delaying procedures for the establishment of this service in the public interest. During this period after two years and until the establishment of service, the beneficiaries shall not receive any compensation for the difficult use of land which they may receive under the law for a maximum of two years, nor shall they receive compensation for the establishment of public service. The administrative units are expected to reject the new applications of beneficiaries for compensation after the expiry of the two-year period. This is also the way the programme works in administrative units, since it is not possible to introduce an application into the programme or after this deadline. Thus, certain applications for the 2015 fence have not been fully approved for 2017, which is unacceptable. It is an obvious delay in procedures at the expense of citizens who are granted the right to compensation or compensation by law. I would like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: What are you going to do to ensure that these beneficiaries are not deprived of their services because of slow public service arrangements? Are you considering extending the beneficiaries’ two-year period to receive that compensation? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! By establishing and installing and using technical and other means to control the state border and to prevent an unauthorised crossing of the state border on land, it is interfering with the constitutional right of ownership. Therefore, the State Border Control Act provides for entitlement to compensation to the owner or persons using the land on the basis of another real right entered in the land book or on the basis of a lease or lease contract. The limitation of property rights by service shall be of public benefit if the exercise of State border control tasks requires more permanent and continuous use of land at a national border which makes it difficult to use and lasts for more than 24 months. The current law provides that beneficiaries shall receive compensation for the period of land loading up to 24 months and compensation for the establishment of public service services provided for from the publication of the decision of the Government referred to in Article 8c of the Act until the period of land loading. The law does not provide an adequate legal basis for beneficiaries to claim or be entitled to compensation or other compensation for the period following the expiry of the burden of 24 months until the publication of a decision establishing public service when they are entitled to compensation. At the Ministry, we are aware that the procedures for the establishment of public service services are slow and, in cooperation with the competent authorities, we are looking for appropriate solutions for more efficient and faster management of procedures. Following the adoption of a decision by the Government establishing a public interest in the establishment of public service, the competent services of the Ministry of the Interior began the procedures prescribed for the establishment of public service. The expert services have initiated the procedure within the statutory period of six months of the adoption of the decision of the Government and have ordered land valuations that are the basis for the production of tenders to owners. With 1. 6. 2018 entered into force the new Law on the Regulation of the Area to which the provisions of the Law on the Control of the State Border apply and amended the way in which the offer for the purchase of immovable property or the conclusion of public service is concluded, since the offer can only be drawn up on the basis of the estimated value of the property and the estimated compensation for damage and other costs. It should be noted that, in accordance with Article 8f of the Act on the Control of the State Border of Compensation for the Establishment of Public Service Services, it is appropriate to determine from the publication of the decision of the Government referred to in Article 8c of the Act until the period of loading of the land. Consequently, after the conclusion of the service contract, beneficiaries will receive compensation in return, and compensation will be paid at the annual level for each previous year, until the end of January of the current year. The Ministry of the Interior is already preparing a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on State border control, which will provide that compensation for the establishment of public service is to be fixed for the period from 24 months to the use of land that makes it difficult to use land regularly until the period of land loading by service. Therefore, beneficiaries will not be deprived of their entitlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. He will be appointed by Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec, Minister of Finance of Dr. Andrey Bertonc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister! At the 13th urgent meeting of the Committee on Finance on the introduction of a digital service tax in Slovenia and the European Union, which was cited on our initiative, we drew attention to the unjustified evasion of taxes by large digital companies such as Amazon, Facebook, Google and Netflix. At the meeting we were surprised by the statement by the State Secretary at your Ministry that you do not have data on the traffic of these companies in the Republic of Slovenia. This is also the case for companies operating or marketing their services in the Republic of Slovenia and therefore they should be treated as taxable persons in the Republic of Slovenia, at least for value added tax payments. So I'm interested in three simple questions, essentially quantitative data: What taxes do such companies pay in the Republic of Slovenia? How long or when are these companies treated as taxpayers in Slovenia? What is the tax inflow to the State Treasury from corporate income tax, value added tax and other taxes paid by these or such undertakings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dear Dr. Vatovec! We discussed this a little while ago on your previous tax-related issue, but otherwise there was much debate on this on the Finance Committee, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposed to take up by 1. 4. 2020 forwards to the National Assembly a proposal for a law to introduce a digital service tax in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia from 1. 9. 2020. By doing so, as you know, the work is related to the recast of international tax standards in this area, mainly in the field of corporate income tax at global level. It is most intensive within the framework of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development of the OECD. This believes that a global consensus that will be difficult to reach is essential for an effective solution. This proves to be quite agreeable, especially with the fact that it will be difficult to reach it. As Minister, of course, I also participate in the Eurogroup, in Ecofin, and things do not move, so much will have to be done in this part. The European Commission has also drawn up a proposal for a directive in the past year on a common system of digital services tax, which would address problems of fair taxation of the digital economy of the Member States of the Union until a global solution is adopted, because we are all aware of this problem. Despite the support of many members, the Commission's proposal did not receive unanimous support for adoption. As you know, a consensus on tax regulation is needed. Nor is it a narrower proposal submitted by Germany and France in the absence of the Commission proposal, in some way a compromise proposal. We couldn't agree on this either within the European Commission, individual members of the Union. So this thing stays open. As you know, one or two members have somehow dealt with this matter individually. This is now left to individual members in some way during this period. On our side, as has been said, it is imperative that the Government prepare this proposal by April 2020. At the Ministry of Finance, of course, we are actively monitoring developments in the decision of the digital economy, both at OECD level and at European Union level. We are also closely monitoring the objectives of other countries in the introduction of national tax, so that we will draw up a proposal for a digital service law in accordance with the decision taken. According to Fursa, companies exposed to the issue are charged and paid VAT in Slovenia. Since 2009, those companies have accounted for a good EUR 14,5 million, amounting to the amount of VAT charged since 1. 1. 2015 further, it has been a one-stop shop since the introduction of the system, the mini VEM, through which those companies can charge VAT on electronic services taxed in Slovenia for a good amount of EUR 12.8 million. In the context of some tables, what was the VAT accounting for the VEM minima from 1. 1. 2015 onwards. Maybe if I mentioned at least these few companies you mentioned. For Apple it is a circus – I will not read all of them – 1.9 million euros for Amazon – that is 11 pledges – 817 thousand euros for Facebook Payments 726 thousand euros, Google Voice little, 2 000 600 euros, Google Technology 207 thousand euros, that is a total of 5 million 867 thousand 271 euros. VAT bill, accounting obligation from 2015 onwards: for Google 2.7 million euros; for Facebook zero; Amazon four debtors, 4.3 million euros. So total 6 million 957 thousand 764 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The next question will be asked by Mr Franz Kramar, Minister for the Environment and Space of Mr Simon Zajc, who is absent, and I also ask the Member to state whether he wants a written or oral answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u106	Oral response at the next meeting. In fact, I repeat the question raised at the last meeting concerning the payment of the legal obligations arising from the Law on the Triglav National Park. I was not satisfied with the answer because it is a medal and it places the responsibility for not paying on the mayors of park municipalities. The latter were informed that the mayors should set the criteria on which the law was to be implemented. Given the situation on the ground, I know that such a decision is virtually impossible, and I therefore conclude that the Ministry sought to shield itself from responsibility by this proposal. The Triglav National Park Act itself sets the criteria. They are set out in Articles 10 and 11 and provide that all projects, investments and activities under the State budget shall be provided by the local park community with additional co-financing resources. These funds reach 80 % of the estimated value of the project or investment. The Ministry of Environment and Space should therefore collect projects in park municipalities and co-finance them at that level. In the past ten years, it has been clear that Article 10 and Article 11 are only their own purpose, for their realization is null and void. I would point out another aspect of the violation of the Triglav National Park Act. Article 36 of the Act provides that the establishment of a public institution in a national park in the area of that park community, which has the largest population, must be established. The park’s seat should thus move to Bohinj with Bled, but in ten years this possibility has not even been discussed, let alone its realization take place. It is therefore a grave breach of the law. I'm asking the minister: Will the state continue to violate legislation? Because ministers who violate the law are ripe for interpretation. However, I will say that I will repeat this issue at all future meetings until the law starts to be implemented, because I believe that the ministry has been run by a state secretary for many years, who has had a strong influence on the decisions of ministers, such or others, and it would be time for the Minister to consider his cabinet and perhaps one of them will be replaced. Because with existing personnel who are rigid and do not accept any debate on the issues, especially national parks, it is difficult to cooperate. It is not just one congregation, it is seven park congregations, and they have been waiting ten years for the law to be passed in the congregation. This is unacceptable for the law not to be implemented, therefore [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your time is up, you will receive your reply at the next meeting. We're moving on. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u108	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues, a nice greeting to everyone! We finally got into a serious law procedure. What am I talking about? The proposal for a law on scientific research and innovation was finally seen by the light of the world. After the former Minister had no idea whether to propose a new law on higher education or to propose a new law on research and development activities, the current Minister decided that two laws would finally be created. Two laws that are expected to have a major impact on Slovenian higher education and, above all, on the scientific sphere. By Friday, the draft Law on Scientific Research and Innovation was in the procedure or public hearing. The aim of the law: to establish a modern research, innovation system. So in theory. In practice, let me quote some of the articles that my fellow members of the pioneer service gave me about this law. “The proposal of the law, which is under public scrutiny, is discriminatory and contrary to the fundamental acts of democratic society and bets.” Second quote: "In 28 years since the establishment of the Republic of Slovenia and after 15 years of EU membership, this bill has aroused dismay among researchers, higher education teachers." “This law introduces discrimination and monopolies characteristic of the former political system.” “The problem is the withdrawal of the possibility of obtaining concessions for the stable financing of the public service.” “The state of science and development is unsustainable, funding and investment in research equipment needs to be increased.” “The bill brings negative and, in certain cases, even unconstitutional effects, so it must be withdrawn.” “The law was created by taking into account the narrow interests, not by taking account of the interests of scientists and researchers, but of Slovenian society as a whole.” “A distinction shall be introduced unjustifiably.” In short, in theory a nice, modern research, innovation system, but in practice things are a little different. That's why, Mr. Secretary, at this stage, I am interested in the following: How many initiatives or comments did you receive during the public debate? How many meetings have you had? Who did you have meetings with? What were the conclusions? To what extent will you also take these comments into account? So much for a start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u110	First of all, I thank the Member in that part, and also in the whole part, that there will be no doubt, even for the criticism. Yes, we have decided to make a law on research and innovation, because after all these years it is high time that we also have a new law. As far as your specific question is concerned, we are in public debate until Friday, until 17. 5, get 36 comments. Of these 36 comments, ten were made by private research institutions, eight by public research organisations and seven by individual researchers, two unions and so on. As for your second part of the question, how did we ask it, was that we made the widest possible working group. In the working group – unfortunately I can't tell you the number of meetings, but there were a lot of them – both universities and research institutes and KOSRIS and representative trade unions in this area, including researchers as such, I think it was a rector conference, in short, all possible stakeholders. The third thing you mention, however, is the real question – and it would be right for both of us, because we know these comments and most of us, if we manage to aggregate them somehow, refer only to concessions for research activity and only to concessions. But if you quote, then it would be fair for us and the public to say who are the authors of these records, in which the media appeared, of course also with a reference to their status. Because then we can be very quick, perhaps, not saying completely, but perhaps very quickly realizing that it is an interesting record, where it is clear that at the end of interest there is always money. And speaking of the general purpose of the law, it is far more than just money. This law wants to modernise the entire research public sphere, not least here, in this House last year, we had a broader debate where representatives of the European Commission came to explain what is necessary in our research ecosystem. And if I may in five points somehow pull these things out of the way, which the law is referring to, it will not only be a theory, but that practice will also be very clear. On the one hand, the real issue of governance is how we manage things in our scientific research, innovation system. What this law brings is what is called a horizontal responsibility. So not only the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, but also of other ministries when we talk about development, when we talk about research and so on. That not only one ministry will be responsible for this, but, of course, it is a horizontal thing. Because that is also the suggestion from Europe. Second of all, funding. This is what most of the comments we can read in newspapers refer to. The question is what is the relationship between stable financing and competitive financing. Nobody claims, and this is often silenced by the authors – all research organisations will be able to apply for projects, but the question is whether or not we finance public service to private research organisations. And this is a question that is, say, a slightly bigger question. So stability on the one hand, competitiveness on the other. Then it is a question of the extent of resources, then the question in this law, if you want, including ethics in science, is the autonomy of public research organisations and it is a question of the status of researchers and also of public research institutions. That and much more this law addresses and has the idea of doing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u111	Thank you. The Member of Parliament shall have a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we agree on certain matters. For the first time, you finally had, unlike your predecessor, the courage to say publicly that the Higher Education Act and the Law on Scientific Research are two separate concepts and it is right to consider them in two laws. Let us leave aside that you obviously have a desire on the left side of the lung to rename the law, but it is right, whatever the law is called, to pursue the right goals. But the problem is in practice, and that's what you mentioned. You know, usually in finance – here we have a finance minister – love begins and sometimes ends. I did not come from this issue, which is supposed to arise in this law, regarding financing or concessions from any party, if you want to, in your opinion, publish, but STA was a key source in all of those matters that I mentioned. In short, Mr. Secretary, if we're not going to be too long, I am interested in this stage of the preparation of the marriage of two. Will you take note of any comment made by those who say that the proposal is too old-fashioned if you want it to bring us back too much at some time when it was a public holy, but in private it is necessary to expel us? And in the end, I want to know what your timing is for this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u114	Vice President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! No, it's not an old-school idea. The idea is in the opposite direction. But in the end, yes, of course we will review all the comments. As we say, last Friday, today is Monday, the public debate has ended, so we will review. All comments are absolutely welcome. But the serious question that we will have to answer in this national assembly is the relationship between stable and project financing and how to do so. But then inside, we have the issue of programme, institutional, young researchers and so on. In short, what all goes into one thing and everything goes into the other. It's not that any kind of support or any of that, far away about it, it's not that idea. The idea is to make this sieve as good as possible. And a second time. As far as the timeline is concerned, given that the public debate is now over, we need to take some time to review the proposals, to complete the proposal, if necessary, and then, of course, to go with it as soon as possible, I hope, even to the Government. However, inter-sectoral coordination will be necessary before this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Ms Lidija Ivanuša will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u116	Good-bye, everybody! Children with special needs are special legal material, which is regulated by the Children’s Guidance Act with special needs. Among other things, Article 2 defines a child with special needs. It's also a child with speech-lingual disorders. Child education and education with special needs shall be carried out in accordance with the rules governing pre-school education. Logoped is an expert with university education who deals with the prevention and elimination of all kinds of speech-language communication disorders. A timely speech-language approach enables an individual to develop more effectively the voice-language communication and the whole personality and to better integrate into the appropriate forms of education and the social environment. Proper communication between people is increasingly being stressed. Communication between children and educators can be very complex and misunderstood or difficult. Each parent understands his or her child best, for they are accustomed to each other when the child comes into contact with others, and his or her understanding is greatly questioned. Following the current regime, the logoped treatment in kindergartens is carried out in children who have a decision by the Education Institute or a pediatrician to direct the child with special needs. I want to know: How many students have completed their studies of speech therapy and surdopedagogics since the study was conducted? Does the Ministry have data, or does a person named Professor logoped by surdopedagog have problems entering the labour market? How many children are in public and private education in the Republic of Slovenia who need help in preventing and eliminating all kinds of speech-language communication disturbances? Is the number of such children growing over the years? According to the Ministry's assessment, is the current regulation appropriate? Does the management staff in kindergartens send requests to the Ministry for additional workers dealing with this type of problem? What is the position of the Ministry, given that we have a trained staff, to propose that in each public school, one speech therapist should be employed to care for the communication skills of children in the earliest years of development?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I'll start with an integrated one, and then I'll go to all the answers to your questions. A complete picture, of course it's not pink. And elsewhere in the newspapers, and we know it, you can read that, of course, there is a shortage in the entire school system of logopedos and surdopedagogs, there is no doubt about it. If I go to your specific questions. So far, at both levels, we are talking about the new so-called Bologna Program at the Faculty of Education of the University of Ljubljana, graduated and mastered a total of 141 logopedos and surdopedagogs. Of course that's not enough. Their needs on the market are growing, and what I can say is that we share these resources with such education both in school and in health care. So not all of these people who are educated in the faculty of education are employed solely and solely in the educational system. Another time. You asked if they had any employment problems. I must say that we do not have this information, which is actually more of a question for the University of Ljubljana, which monitors the employability of graduates. But I can tell you in general, what I said in the beginning, so they're missing, not that there's any way too many. Third time. What you asked about how these most vulnerable groups of children are being raised and educated with special needs – sometimes we called it based on a decision, it's an old way, and now we have a new law on early treatment, but it's a family assistance plan. [[…]] Someone who notices such problems may turn to the center, get a very clear plan to help the family or the record, and then get appropriate help in kindergarten. In kindergarten, specifically, what you're asking me about, we're in a specific situation, because here are the local communities who are hiring. So, in dialogue with local communities, you need to go in a direction – what you are proposing, if I understand correctly, is your suggestion – that at least one logoped or surdopedagogic would be employed in each kindergarten. I've got to make one note under the line here. Of course, we have to attribute to these 141s all the other graduates of the old programmes, sometimes we have said defectology or any of those who have these skills. In recent years – what you are asking me about – the trend of children with special needs in kindergartens has not been confirmed by our statistics at this time. We have a more or less steady trend, moving around 40%. We're talking about this disorder, specifically this disorder. I have numbers three years ago: 41%, 40%, 37.7%. As far as the logoped language disorder is concerned, about 40% of the total is there. If we go in this direction, we will need a very intense dialogue with local communities, because they are employees specifically in kindergartens and not a country, and only in this way will we be able to achieve what you said and, of course, our goal – to improve the communication skills of each child individually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have a request to complete your reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u120	Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer. If we've got this right, we both agree on this issue in our country. I hope you also agree with me that speaking problems also cause wider social exclusion, not only in school but also in finding employment, the elderly. I was wondering if you could present a timetable for this issue. In view of the fact that you said that only 40% of the children who need logoped are, however, I wonder whether it is necessary to wait for this service for up to one year or even more. I think maybe then the number could be a little higher. I also wonder if, on the basis of my question, you may have drawn up a plan of financial implications if you were to hire one logopedo in kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u122	Thank you very much for this additional question. In some kindergartens, we need to know that, in some kindergartens, logopedos are already employed for additional professional assistance. Sometimes, where they don't have employees, we have mobile units. So that's how we solve the situation. What you said -- yes, but look, that's not what this is about. Since this is an area of local communities, the state cannot impose by decree on the local community that they must employ logopedes, a surdopedagogue, a defectologist, any of these specialists we have within the teaching professions. That is why we are talking about this, and that is why I have also talked about the need for a very intensive dialogue with local communities. I think they are very well aware of and very well aware of the need to address speech-language disorders in children as well. We're going to help them, we're going to come across them, we're going to encourage them, too, I have to say, we're going to encourage the faculty of education, so that – but, you know, this is a long process, it's not a short process, it's not a short process, it's not a frame that comes up from today to tomorrow. If we want to reach more graduates – we had them in about 22 years, in which year a little more and so on, but all together within this bolonija only 141 and we would need more of them, so we will encourage the faculty of education so that more students can focus on these programs. Because there's a need for this kind of staff in both kindergartens and primary schools. But as for that other part of your question, when you talk about waiting, that's the primary medical part. I do not want to say, and I do not want to say that this is not my responsibility, to some extent the Government is a collective body, so this must be regulated. But if we don't have a frame, then of course we're dealing with this very hard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Are we continuing to ask whether you have a procedural proposal, Madam Member? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u124	Since communication seems a very important issue to me and since our children need to be helped in the National Assembly with their speech disturbances, I propose that the next meeting discuss the Minister's response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly in the framework of tomorrow's vote. Now let's get on with it. Mr. Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andre Bertontzl. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The complaint of Slovenian criminals against the former Governor of Banka Slovenije and others burdened by the abuse of the position revealed some more profound, shocking facts about the rehabilitation of banks in 2013. The methodology for stress tests, which were the basis for the recovery, was politically motivated. For the first time since the direction of the European Commission, Banka Slovenije’s leadership has written the results of stress tests, although they have not been carried out according to international accounting standards. Another time. With pressure, the European Commission has achieved that the value of the assets that protected the loans has been assessed and placed at a low rate so that the final amount of the bank hole will eventually come out high. After all, the Deloitt operators were not independent experts, but conscious European Commission dictators. So Slovenian criminals. This already sounds like a political thriller – which is also – which further leads us to the question why the European Commission would like to sink Slovenian banks. Not only have we overpaid the rehabilitation of banks, but there have been far worse consequences. This rehabilitation of the bank with a stress test was followed by commitments by the Republic of Slovenia against the European Commission, which promised to privatise certain parts of the Slovenian banking sector, to cancel the Balkan network of branches of the Nova Ljubljanska Banka and so on. In short, because the amount of recapitalisation had been so high, it had become necessary for the European Commission to authorise it and the European Commission had set certain privatisation conditions and, among other things, had forced the decommissioning of the holders of subordinated bonds. So, Mr. Minister, I ask you: Will you take appropriate action and request an investigation into the functioning of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, which, following the disclosure of Slovenian criminals, have acted on the legislation of the Republic of Slovenia? Are you not considering the European Central Bank and European Commission action before the European Court of Justice? In the light of the questionable legal basis of the commitments to sell Slovenian banks will you engage to stop the sale of the Bank? As these disclosures made it crystal clear, the whole operation of the resolution of the bank hole was not only an economic necessity but a political opportunity for the interests of the centre to privatise the Slovenian banking system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u128	Thank you. Your Honor! The Ministry of Finance has no jurisdiction in relation to the criminal investigation into the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks in 2013 and has not been informed of the results of this investigation. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Finance supports all efforts to resolve any doubts about the correct implementation of the last resolution of the Slovenian banking system. The two proposals recently drafted by the Ministry of Finance are directly linked to all efforts. First of all. The legal proposal has already been put in place in order to allow the Court of Auditors to revise the regularity and prudence of the Bank of Slovenia, in accordance with the Law on the Court of Auditors, on the basis of the addition of the Bank of Slovenia. The audit of the Court of Auditors shall not cover the application and interpretation of the law and practice of control exercised by Banka Slovenije on the basis of ZBS-1 and other regulations and within the framework of the single control mechanism. At the same time, however, this law provides for an exception which is important, so that the Court of Auditors can assess the correctness and prudence of the control practices carried out by the Bank of Slovenia by 4 November 2014 and lead to the use of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Where the last resolution of the Slovenian banking system meant the use of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and was carried out before 4 November 2014, the Court of Auditors will also be able to assess the correctness and prudence of those measures of the Bank of Slovenia relating to the determination of the necessary amount of recapitalisation of banks. The Court of Auditors will also inform the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia about the audit disclosures. The second legal proposal relates to the determination of the procedure for the judicial protection of former holders of qualified liabilities of banks in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court to remedy the established unconstitutionality of the Banking Act, which was in force at the time when the last resolution of the Slovenian banking system was carried out. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has proposed the text of a law which is also the subject of general discussion at this meeting. The proposal proposes that the Court of Justice should assess whether the Bank of Slovenia correctly applied the provisions of the Bank of Slovenia Banking Act and whether former holders were injured. Whether former holders are entitled to compensation will be decided by the court, and both laws will undoubtedly contribute to the definitive elimination of the assumptions about the alleged overcapitalisation of certain Slovenian banks and the alleged harmful conduct of those involved in the institutions, but the Court of Auditors or the injured persons will be able to prove the contrary again before the court and will therefore be entitled to compensation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u129	Thank you very much! Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u130	Thank you for your word! Nova Ljubljanska banka, Nova Kredittna banka Maribor, Abanka. The first two of these have already been sold, and the third is in the sales process. Why? Because, at the time of the recapitalisation of the banks in 2013, Slovenia made commitments to the European Commission to privatise these three banks. But these commitments were forced to be made because it was in a weak position and because the amount of bank hole recovery had become so high that it became necessary for the European Commission to allow it. Why did this amount get so high? Because this same European Commission, in cooperation with Banka Slovenije's management, forced the recording of the amounts in Banka Slovenije's accounts in such a way that the real estate was assessed by the Karseda low, that the karseda on paper and on the statement deepened this bank hole. In short, from the beginning to the end, according to information from Slovenian capitalists, a political operation for the privatisation of all system banks in this country, led by the European Commission with the assistance of Banka Slovenije. Mr Minister, if we are to bring an action against the European Central Bank and the European Commission before the European Court of Justice, if we are to comply with a request to investigate the functioning of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, this is not a legal neutral act, this is a political action in the field of justice which requires a political decision and you as Minister of Finance, without it being within your jurisdiction, this is certainly within your jurisdiction and you are the first to be called to do so. At the same time, until things are cleared up from the beginning to the end – also judicially, if you wish – the privatisation of the Bank must be stopped. As is clear from everything, privatisation is forced, a questionable legal basis and once sold, damage will be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u131	Thank you very much! Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u132	Thank you very much! At the Ministry of Finance, we have appointed a competent expert team, which was not involved in the resolution of banks during that period and which is not contaminated by the assessment of the capital deficit in banks and with the extent of the necessary recapitalisation, to draw up a law that would be the basis for determining the correctness or, if you wish, irregularities – this will, of course, only have to be established. The legal basis for the implementation of the recovery will not be checked in court proceedings, as the Constitutional Court has already ruled that the substantive provisions of the Banking Act are consistent. The judicial proceedings will rediscover whether the legal provisions have been properly applied and the capital deficit in banks, I repeat, has been properly established. Our aim is to ensure effective judicial protection for deleted holders in the recovery process and to implement the Constitutional Court decision. The appropriateness of the proposed legal solutions will be discussed by Members in the first reading at this meeting of the National Assembly, I think within two days, and a general discussion on this issue will be held. As regards the calls made by the current Government, this should put an end to the privatisation procedures of the banks receiving the state aid in question. Credit countries respect and are responsible for the commitments they make. Privatisation of banks will not jeopardise the access of the Slovenian economy and households to loans, but will eliminate the bad practices that have been fuelled by poor loans in the past and threaten the stability of the financial system. The privatisation of banks also means the recovery of funds invested in the rehabilitation of banks in the form of State aid. Of course, our goal is to reimburse as much as possible the taxpayers' funds that they have invested in the resolution of the banking system.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr President, he has a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Madam President. We want a debate in the National Assembly on the answer given by Mr Minister. In fact, this answer was very much absent in his debate, but when he did come, it was an escape. From all that Slovenian criminalists have found, from all that I have presented, it is very clear that we are not talking about being a credible country that must respect the European Commission's commitments in a credible manner if the European Commission itself does not act in a credible manner. Stress tests in Slovenian banks were not carried out as independent experts would have done, but were carried out in a lobbyist manner, in order to demonstrate the depth of Slovenian bank holes in a desperate, catastrophic manner, so that the Republic of Slovenia must then apply for a special authorisation from the European Commission to carry out this rehabilitation. But this permit does not come with strings attached, it comes with a demand to privatise all key system banks in this country. Not that the credible countries respect forced commitments. Credit countries such as banking crime are persecuting. That's what credible states do! Credit countries also do not talk about the fact that when they privatise systemic banks, there is a recovery of funds for recovery. Let's just look at the example of the New Maribor Credit Bank. How much did the country invest? About a billion, if I'm not mistaken, I quote from memory. How much did the New Loan Bank sell the speculative capital fund for? Once again, 250 million. Clean profit as soon as this speculative fund bought the bank – 750 million euros. This did not restore relief funds, it was a gift to international financial corporations. And if anything, the finance minister needs to understand the need for us to have a stable bank system, that this system is under public control and that crime, deliberate political crime, which forces the privatisation of the banking system at the time of the Slovenian crisis, is rewarded not by shifting its back, but by putting it on the verge of being stopped immediately by the privatisation of the Bank, to investigate in detail the functioning of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, which has obviously influenced the recovery procedures, and that the European Commission and the European Central Bank are suing in the European Court of Justice. That's what credible countries do, and that's what they'd do with credibility. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by Mr Jožef Lenart, Minister of Finance Andre Bertoncl. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all the guests! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Bertonzel! In the opposition, we have repeatedly expressed our view that it is better for the state budget to collect lower taxes and these more consistently than to increase taxes. It is also known that we have several non-payers who owe higher amounts of taxes and that the Financial Office of the Republic of Slovenia fails to recover them due to insufficient legislation or inconsistent implementation. I am thinking of some tax debtors who for a long time owed contributions to salaries, VAT and other obligations to the country, and nothing was taken after the company was bankrupted. Therefore, Furs has several difficulties in raising tax debt for several months to a firm that has already planned bankruptcy in such a careful manner, but does not have leverage or a certain limit to automatically close a long-term activity at a certain level. Have any proposals been made to amend the legislation so that this would no longer happen? The Financial Administration also recognises that non-payment of taxes and contributions is a pressing problem, as despite many activities and with constant and increased supervision, the phenomenon is still present. Non-payment of salaries and non-payment of wage contributions by employers is an illegal and criminal offence. Is Furs making any motions against the court? Has any of the constant and repeated wrongdoers been punished for this offense? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u138	Dear Member! Furs is responsible for collecting taxes and contributions which are the income of four public finances, namely the budget of the State, pension and health insurance and the budget of the municipalities. The tax debt shall be kept as active and conditionally recoverable in the bookkeeping record. An active debt is characterised by the possibility for the tax authority against debtors to carry out a number of recovery measures, such as warning, settlement, redemption of the insurance instruments submitted and tax enforcement procedures aimed at repaying the debt. While a conditionally recoverable debt is characterised by the fact that almost all the possibilities for debt to be recovered in the tax enforcement procedure are exhausted, the debt repayment is therefore to the greatest extent dependent on the dynamics and closure of the proceedings, namely forcible settlement, bankruptcy proceedings, bankruptcy, inheritance, enforcement from immovable property. The total tax debt, both active and conditionally recoverable, shall be 31 days. 12. 2018 amounted to €1.2 billion and according to state 31. 12. 2017 reduced by a good €62 million or 4.9%. On 30 April this year, the tax debt amounted to €1.19 billion and fell by an additional 1% at the end of last year. So, in 15 months, he went down by 6%. The downward trend in tax debt has continued since the establishment of Furs. Given the marked positive effects, there can be an increase in the rate of voluntary tax payments, i.e. in this pro-active tax administration, and an increase in the efficiency of tax collection – i.e. in these two measures. The factors that encourage voluntary payment of taxes are the simplification of tax procedures and the provision of better services for debtors and the Ministry of Finance is proposing measures at a normative level and Furs is taking measures aimed at raising the quality of service and services for debtors. In this way, Furs has carried out a comprehensive set of measures in the past year aimed at upgrading or extending the services it offers to the debtors to meet their obligations more easily and cheaper and enforce their rights. If the tax is not paid within the statutory period, tax enforcement shall be initiated by issuing a decision on tax enforcement. Furs is primarily responsible for the recovery of taxes, contributions and other compulsory duties and, on the basis of legal power, also recovers certain recent claims from other applicants. Although the legislation does not provide for mandatory warnings to Furs actively and in accordance with the principle of a friendly administration of the approach to the treatment of taxpayers, it calls for them to be voluntarily settled prior to the start of tax enforcement. More than half of the taxpayers have also settled down on the basis of a reminder. The data also show that, in 2018, EUR 65 million recovered EUR 752 000 663 more than in 2017. With regard to the above, it is estimated that Furs’ effectiveness in collecting taxes and contributions is increasing from year to year. For the next few years, Furs has a goal of reducing his tax debt.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u139	Thank you. Member of the Commission, would you like a request to complete the reply? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u140	Thanks again for saying that. I will say so; thankfully and I am glad that it is shrinking, certainly, but I have given your answer that Furs is trying to be a kind management, one comment. On the part of entrepreneurs, we often hear that those who have an afternoon p. p., for five days, 10 days late due to non-payment of contributions have already made executions. How is it possible for some debtors who have a debt of 100,000 to wait three, four, five months and eventually even to go bankrupt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u142	It would probably be easier to respond to any concrete proposal or case, but I might add some numbers in the explanation, because it is a very complex matter. It is also important that the debt under social security contributions cannot be deducted. We know that. Indeed, the Constitutional Court has already decided in 2018 that the tax authority must not grant either a suspension or an interest payment for unpaid contributions under the tax procedure. There may also be a number of figures concerning tax debt and tax enforcement. The recovery of an active debt representing 56.8 % of the structure of the tax debt for 2018 is ongoing and therefore the likelihood of recovery of that debt is high in contrast to a conditionally recoverable debt. The high share of the contingent debt, representing 43.2% of the debt, is most often due to initial insolvency proceedings against debtors, since the claims reported in insolvency proceedings represent 90.1% of the conditionally recoverable debt. Of course, we are limited in this part. This means that, in such cases, Furs cannot affect the speed and efficiency of the repayment or recovery of the debt. Furs issued 326 thousand 185 debt enforcement decisions in 2018 amounting to EUR 756 million 944 thousand 785. In 2018, 539 million EUR 996 000 was recovered in debt on the basis of the measures implemented. The maximum percentage is paid after notices, almost 60% of all payments – i.e. in this part this application, Fursa’s proactive role is paid – and payments received on the basis of state execution decisions have a 40.7% share. In 2018, €65 million was recovered by EUR 732 000 663 more than in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Iva Dimic, who will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc, who is absent, and I ask the Member to say whether he wants a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u144	Thank you very much. First, I will present my question. The last month hardly passes the day to not be informed of the new terrible slaughter of domestic animals by wild beasts, especially wolves, jackals, bears from all parts of Slovenia – Kočevska, Velika Lašče, Blocke, Illyrian Bistrica, Podnanos, Vipava. That's why it seems to me that the passivity of the Ministry of Environment and Space, and because they don't have these beasts of natural enemies, the population of these beasts has become overcrowded. As a result, more and more often they attack domestic animals and are not afraid to come to you, which is completely unnatural for them. The problem is particularly pressing, as I said, in Notranjska, in the Loška Valley, in Illyrian Bistriška, in the Great Lašta, in Kočev and in the Blocks. Farmers simply have enough because they are tired of constantly reporting damage and constantly negotiating with the representatives of the country regarding the level of compensation and the receipt of scarce amounts, which in no way cover even direct material damage due to massacres, let alone all other damage such as animal stress, loss of milkiness, premature calves and, lastly, the fear of farmers. The worst part is that the country's obedience to the problems of farmers is not at all. The Ministry of Environment and Space does not act and only leads things in a direction where farmers will be forced to protect their own assets and, last but not least, their lives. A few protests by farmers fighting for their survival with the country on the one hand and the bloodthirsty beasts on the other, have already occurred recently and will still happen if you do not act. Farmers require the Ministry of Environment and Space, together with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, to end this situation and to start actively managing the beast population and to pay fair compensation. It is the duty of the State to protect its people and it is incumbent on farmers to enable them to carry out their agricultural activities peacefully. Today it looks like we want beasts in Slovenia, but not farmers. Mainly, the area of Blok, Veliki Lašča falls within the area of limited factors, where mainly farmers are directed towards organic farming and must have free pasture for at least five months per year after this scheme. Because of the beasts, they still hold certain farmers in the barns and simply violate the regulations, so they want the situation to be settled. As far as the answer is concerned, Madam Vice-President, I would like a written reply because I expect the New Slovenia Group to submit a proposal for an urgent meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space and also of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the coming days, because I believe that this is one of the worst issues currently emerging, [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador, for your question. We're moving on. Mr Jože Lenart will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, it has been clear for some time now that the parents of blind and visually impaired children are entitled to the allowance for assistance and service provided by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and, as legal representatives of their children, to the allowance for the care of the child, in accordance with the Law on Parental and Family Benefits. From 2003 until June 2015, according to the directive of the Ministry of State and Social Work Centres, Article 104 of the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance was misinterpreted, where parents have to choose between the two supplements. According to known information, the majority of parents decided to receive an aid and service allowance due to the level of funds. So it's a mistake of the state. The 2012 decision of the Supreme Labour and Social Court, which has given parents the wrong interpretation of the legislation, states in the explanatory memorandum that the right to an allowance for the care of the child is the right of parents and of the indirect child; the right to an allowance for assistance and service is a personal right acquired by blind people, i.e. children. On the basis of the decision, some parents decided to file an action for the payment of funds unduly withdrawn. The court has given them the benefit of the doubt, but according to your interpretation, it is a matter for decisions in individual disputes. I'm glad the government has taken a step further. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the State's Attorney's Office agreed this February that in all open social disputes, the Court should propose the withdrawal of the orders already signed and the postponement of the latter for an indefinite period of time. The reason for such a decision is the preparation of normative solutions that will enable beneficiaries to pay unpaid allowances. A regulatory basis should also be laid down for the payment of costs already incurred or to be incurred in these procedures. That's why, Madam Secretary, I'm asking you: When will legislation be ready and when will beneficiaries receive their resources? The fact is – you probably agree on your own – that multi-year waiting is totally inappropriate. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. Initially, I would like to say that as soon as I came to know the issue of the appendix for blind and visually impaired children, I took action. In reviewing the situation, we decided that because of the particularly difficult situation faced by blind and visually impaired children, we would draw up a special law regulating certain rights of blind and visually impaired children and their parents. The law will provide the basis for the payment of allowances which would otherwise be paid if the social work and ministry centres from 2003 to 2015 interpreted material rules as interpreted by the Higher Labour and Social Court. Parents also have judicial and enforcement procedures in place in the proceedings, and these costs will also be reimbursed by a decision issued under this law. The preparation of this law is one of my priorities, yet we do not want to rush, because we would like to settle the situation in an appropriate manner. We have met several times with the State's Attorney's Office and with the Ministry of Justice and together laid the foundations for the law. Because of all the above, we are already actively preparing a proposal for a law which will be the basis for the payment of unpaid allowances and the reimbursement of court and enforcement costs. We must be aware, however, that the drafting of this law raises some important legal issues that need to be resolved. At this point, I can say that we are in a final phase with the law being drawn up, and we are informally aligned with all ministries. After the final resolution of all the issues that are coming to us, the law will be transmitted as soon as possible to inter-sectoral coordination and then to the government and to the National Assembly. I hope that the law will be adopted as soon as possible. After the adoption of the law, the beneficiaries will receive decisions to be issued by social work centres on the basis of which funds will be made available. It also depends on you, Members and Members, how quickly the law will be passed and the decisions made, and I expect your support. At this point, I can say that, just as we have set up a timeline, this is how this law is being prepared, so that it will be in the government before summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. The next one will ask the question of the Magi. Mr Dejan Kaloh, Minister of Justice Andreja Katič. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u150	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Hello, Madam Minister, greetings to colleagues and those who look at us behind small screens! Madam Minister, you were at an extraordinary meeting on May 13th, a week ago, you said, I quote. You said that legislation was being prepared on the admissibility of communication with the public: “Now I don’t know about it, I don’t know about it now.” And another quote from you: “I know it was about this speech, I read in the media. Once again, we are not preparing this at the Ministry of Justice." I then read the minutes of the first extraordinary meeting of the Council of Justice on 18 March. You said you were only present at the first point. The first item was entitled Interview with the Minister of Justice, Mrs Andrejo Katič. Madam Minister, I see you through the board meetings where we are seeing you as a very precise, consistent, almost pedantic person. I almost doubt that then the other points, which was next, for yours, did not see item 2.d Proactive action of the judiciary in the field of public relations. While you have said how to overlook this, this record now states under this point: “The pro-active activity of judges is foreseen, so education is already under way at the Centre for Education in Justice for the Judges of Speakers, so-called media judges, who will communicate directly with the public. It is also expected that legislation on the admissibility of communication between judges and the public will be amended.” In view of the fact that the Centre for Justice Education is directly under your jurisdiction: What does that mean that you do not know what and who is being educated at a given time? Especially since this is a new idea, which they have just come up with, I will say, lawyers will be labeled as allegedly controversial or even unconstitutional. Now, at this first stage in this regard, Madam Minister, I am interested in: Who has chosen or appointed these candidates for judicial speakers? On what criteria and on what legal or legal basis, given that the minutes of the meetings show that only this legislation is being prepared? So now I'm asking you in the first place for these answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u152	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr Member, thank you for your opinion that I am an accurate, almost meticulous person, I am sure that I have rarely been commended on your part, so I will take it to heart. Anyway, as I said at the extraordinary meeting, I think we had a debate on this. I don't know how it came to the media that I, alone at the Council of Justice, talked about amending the legislation that would apply to being, as you said, just some of the judges who could in any way represent the decisions of the courts. It's not that without me knowing, and we're not making it. And as it is clear or perhaps not clear from the minutes, I did only participate in the first item of this agenda; I did not even see what the Council of Justice has on the other items of the agenda, I was invited to point 1. So once again, if you don’t believe me as to what we were saying there, you can call all the members who were present at that meeting on the side of the Council of Justice and are able to witness what we were talking about. I also think I have said a little more in your reply to the question I sent. We were talking about the state of the judiciary, and most of the talks were about the judges' salaries and about what we spoke to the President of the Supreme Court this morning, who also invited us, me, the President of the Council of Justice and all the Presidents of the Courts. I therefore argue once again that I was present at the meeting of the Council of Justice only at one point at which I was invited, and at this point we did not discuss any changes to the legislation relating to the possibility that only some judges could speak to the public about the decisions of the judiciary. The other thing is. I always say this – and I also said this at Monday's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly – to encourage the judiciary to explain in an understandable way to the general public its decisions, because sometimes it is also up to me – I believe that you, especially the lay public, find it difficult to understand why some things end when they start with some media aid, how the police make some arrests, takes some evidence, and then in court gets such an epilogue, and in fact those who have been suspected are also not legally convicted. Thus, it is necessary to explain to the public, in some appropriate way, the decisions of the courts and, of course, of other judicial authorities. When you ask about the work of the Centre for Education in Justice. Yes, this belongs to us, and I think we have explained in writing very much to you that in the programme of the work of the Centre for Education in Justice for 2018, for 2019, the likely seven implementations of the basic communication techniques with the public in court and the seven implementations of the intensive course of communication techniques with the public in court. This call may be submitted by all and the Education Centre in the essentially order of application, then the choice shall be taken by the person who has applied in due time. Of course, it is called if someone has given up waiting, if others can come, but in order, as it is. It's exactly the same as any other education, and we're not talking about any media talkers, but it's basically a purely simple course of basic techniques or further techniques of communication with the public. It may also be said that, on the initiative of the Office for Public Relations of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, an initiative was also adopted in conjunction with the Implementation Group for the Amendment of the Family Code or our Law on Unfair Procedure to conduct a specific workshop on communication with the media, which would be those who would explain to the public what changes are in the judiciary or in the proceedings relating to the new Family Code. Thus, it is possible that because of the web of all these circumstances, you are now talking about some great conspiracy or whatever, but we have a new Family Code, a new Law on Unfair Procedure, we may also have these pressures, both on my part and others, that the judiciary and other judicial stakeholders should explain as much as possible their decisions in public, but it is certainly not the Ministry of Justice, I personally or any other — to make it known to me — that it is only you who can explain decisions on behalf of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u153	Thank you, Madam Secretary! Mr Member, he has a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u154	Thank you, Madam Minister, for these explanations! That's it, that selectivity. This, of course, was a fear of who would choose, and by what key did these judges speak? As for the very concept of a judge or a media judge, they were spoken by the leader of the pyra at the Supreme Court, Mrs Tina Brecelj. So it's obviously a well-established expression to then present it there. That fear was additional, and in this regard, I was interested in your purely general opinion, precisely because at least two Supreme Judges – Mr Zbez and Mr Pavčnik – had expressed fear that if such legislation had been adopted, it would have been directly contrary to Article 39 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of freedom of expression. Once again, “The freedom of expression, speech and public speaking, the press and other forms of public information and expression is guaranteed. Everyone can freely choose, accept, and spread consciences and opinions. ” [[…]] So, so are the judges. I'm so interested in this place: What is your opinion as Minister of Justice? You have already given it, but it is such an important topic, because Mr Pavčnik has in some way indicated that in the future this could also be a requirement for the Constitutional Court for the constitutional sustainability of this law if it is adopted. In your term of office there was already such a law - the novelty of the CAP, I am talking about it - which has already been judged by the Constitutional Court. There's some kind of news here that's in this domain of danger of violation of the Constitution. I also ask your opinion on these fears of these established supreme judges to remind you of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u155	Thank you very much! Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u156	Thank you. There is something else that I have told you several times, and I think I have also explained, that I cannot say as if the Ministry is not planning any change in this area in relation to what you have asked in the matter. Why does anyone use a term, we should ask them. I can only say that we did not talk about this at a meeting of the Judicial Council, that we are not preparing legislative changes and that, as I have called on many times at public events with different judicial stakeholders, it is important that all the decisions they have made explain to the public in the most understandable way possible. In my personal opinion, it is certainly possible to explain the decision by the judge himself, whether the prosecutor himself, or by the policeman himself, who has taken any decision concerning a particular procedure. Each judgment must be based on evidence which has been carried out in the proceedings. That is why I also say that it is not here for the National Assembly that, from what we read in the media, we conclude from what we hear around here the correctness or irregularity of the individual decision. That the files are usually – you have seen that even with the van, the trucks drive the evidence to the court, so that surely the judge who is also in charge of the proceedings is the most capable of presenting his decision to the public, in my opinion, on a case-by-case basis. I would also like to say that, also because you mentioned the CAPP, we weighed very, very heavily at the time and that you have initiated a constitutional assessment and that there has been a lot of talk about this also at the meeting of the Committee on Justice here. I believe that the Constitutional Court will judge constitutional dispute or non-controversy, but it has not yet been established during my term of office that anything constitutionally disputed. So maybe it was a little different from what you said to me, and I'm not going into conspiracy theory now, just as anyone here thought. I might also respond to what has been said to the effect that there will then be no conspiracy of any kind, as regards my presence at the meeting of the Council of Justice, especially when the Council also decides on the powers of appointing the Presidents of the Courts to appoint the Presidents of the Court by 2009. Then there was a change of law, so the Law on Courts, then the Law on the Council of Justice, and now those meetings where the Council of Justice invites me, I respond if I only have time. In my written reply, I also told you what I had said to you that I thought I had attended three or four meetings of the Council of Justice, as far as time allowed. I believe that this is the law as long as we have it, unless someone here will also initiate a constitutional review; but I say that from 2009 to 2019 – 10 years this has already been the case – we have not followed such an initiative at this time. We'll be able to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The next question will be asked by Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Madam Minister, working hours and the amount of the pension shall be administered on the basis of the information available to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. We all pay contributions for pension and disability insurance, but for data from the previous years or years when we were employed, data is obtained in accordance with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and the Mother Records Act. This Mother Records Act has been amended or has been in force since 1. 1. 2014 and there it is understood to be taken into account, both for working time and for the determination of the amount of the pension, as well as the authentic document of the payment sheet or form REK-1. We know that many companies have not provided the correct data or anything like that, and we find that there is no data on PIZ. Copies of payment sheets are also questionable because we usually do not keep them for 20 years or even 30 years. I am so interested in this because I have the information that, in accordance with the Law on the Maternal Record, it states: “Data on the retirement age which are not entered into the mother's records on the basis of insurance and pension waivers shall be entered into the mother's records on the basis of legal decisions by which the competent authority has established the pension age, or other public documents from which the periods and types of supplementary pension age are evident.” Here we would understand that all the documents issued by a state authority, but the pension institution takes into account, as I said, REK-1 or the payment sheet and if there is no, you cannot prove it, even though you may have a decision on income from Durs or today from Furs that proves that you were employed at the time and also determines what income you had, because this is the basis for your income. I'm so curious: Are you planning to change the law or at least some explanation? In addition to REK-1 and the payment sheets, I think there should be another instrument. By law, you'd understand that, but if you asked about the agency, they'd: REK-1 or pay slips. That's what I'm interested in first. So: Are you going to change the law? It should probably actually be updated, given that, as I said, it's not Durs anymore, but it's Furs, and there's probably something else that's changed in these five years. So first of all, I'm interested in this: Are you planning to change the law or amendment? And based on these data: How many people have been wrong in recent years, or have they been ignored because they have not brought either the REK-1 or the payroll?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. In opening, I would like to point out that our pension system has an embedded special security guard for those workers who have not been charged or paid contributions by their employers. In particular, because the worker cannot influence the payment of the contributions, the State shall ensure that the entire period for which the contributions have not been paid or have not been paid is nevertheless included in order to meet the pension requirement and also affects the amount of the pension. It should be noted that each individual year of insurance, even if contributions have not been paid or accounted for for for a year, is worth as much as if contributions had been paid. One of the major innovations brought by the novels of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2017 is that the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, after receiving the data from the Financial Administration to the employer and to the insured person for whom the employer has not submitted the REK form, sends a special notice of unaccounted contributions. An important novelty is also the responsibility of the Financial Administration to introduce a criminal procedure under tax control against those employers who have not paid their salaries or have not charged their contributions. It is also important to point out that the adoption of the last amendment to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the so-called ZPIZ-2, has strengthened the activities of the institutions, both Pizza and Fursa, to protect the individual, which has helped to increase the legal safety of workers in the working relationship. From 2018 on the basis of Fursa data for workers in the labour market, the Pension and Disability Insurance Office shall ensure greater up-to-date and correctness of the base data of which contributions have been paid. At the end of 2013, the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance also exhibited informational personal records enabling each individual to check the payment of paid contributions. I would also like to point out that I am also committed to taking further action and active action by the State authorities to further monitor the collection of social security contributions and thus to further improve the financial discipline of employers in this area. Non-payment of contributions may affect the amount of the pension for workers only exceptionally. The amount of the pension would have been lower only if the salaries had been higher than the remaining salaries on the basis of which the monthly average was calculated during the period for which the contributions were not paid. However, if the salaries were below the remaining salaries during the period for which the contributions were not paid, the pension base and, as a result, the pension may be even higher than it would have been if the contributions were not paid. With regard to your question on specific cases in the last 10 years, I can therefore explain that cases of workers in a working relationship who would not be taken into account in the absence of contributions are not in practice. In case you know of a case like this when it wasn't, I suggest you pass it on to us for a review of the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Madam Members, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u162	Thank you. First of all, you're going to start a criminal procedure for those companies that didn't pay the contributions. We know a whole bunch of these companies are gone. So, who are we gonna start some sort of procedure against? It's a matter of whether he's any legal heir. But it's not usually there, which means it's a problem for people. I can send you a specific case, with which I have also been at the Pension Insurance Office, where contributions have been paid, but Zpiz requires a form of REK1, which he does not have, or a list of payments that this gentleman no longer has after 30 years. These two and nothing else, despite the fact that you are submitting an income decision, from which the contributions and accrued income and salaries received in that year are also visible. Indeed, they want three wages to then calculate the average, but you can also calculate the average from 12 months if you want it. So I don't think you have the right data when you say there haven't been any cases like this in the last 10 years. I have also spoken with our European Member Romano Tomc, who has dealt with these matters and speaks as much as I do. To be approached by people with the same problem. They are looking everywhere for forms by their former companies or where they were employed, or payment sheets that they do not have. I must tell you that the Institute of Pensions adheres strictly to this: either the REK form or the payment sheet. Everything else isn't. [[…]] And you didn't answer me: Do you think you're going to change the Insurer's Home Account Act or not? Because I think it needs to be updated. It may also be more explained because the law states “other public documents”. But apparently they do not know what “other public documents” they could take into account in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u164	Thank you very much for the additional question. Yes, I would ask you to present these specific cases to me or to send them to me in writing, and we will check with us. I agree with you, it is unacceptable that customers are required to require REK forms which, of course, workers do not have, or 30 years old payment sheets, given that Furs has all the data if the person was in the insurance age. And that, of course, is a public charter, a decision by Furs. If necessary, we will also amend the law in terms of a more precise provision. However, I would ask you if you would take me up on these cases in particular, and then I will look into the matter more easily and then continue to hurght. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u166	Nevertheless, I propose that we hold a debate on your answer, including so that we can talk about these two laws or, above all, the Mother Records Act, which I think is necessary. Perhaps we should do some analysis at the Zpiz, too, what's going on, what's wrong, I don't know, is there any suggestion for amendment or correction? [[…]] Well, it probably suits them that we don't have to do too much work, but we're actually doing the wrong thing to people, and that's not right. If they were employed, they paid contributions to make them pay a lower pension because for a period of time there were no payment sheets or exactly how much they had earned for a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u167	Thank you. We will decide on your proposal tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by Mr Jani Prednik, Minister for Health, Mr Aleš Šabedr, who is absent, so I also ask you, Member, to make your statement whether you want a written or oral answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u168	President, distinguished representatives, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I recently asked the Minister of Health, Dr. Fakin, about rare diseases. Today, I will ask the Ministry of Health and Mr Šabedra about occupational diseases. I'm alone in the field, hanging out with people, workers and workers and trade unions. In particular, trade unions have warned me about the problem of these occupational diseases, namely the lack of regulations in this area that prevent the actual detection of these diseases. Then I took a look at this issue myself, and I also came across warnings from medical experts that the management of these occupational diseases in our country had been severely suspended. The Law on the Pension and Disability Insurance of the ZPIS-2 provides in its 68th Article that diseases "are considered to be a occupational disease caused by the longer direct impact of the work process and working conditions in a particular place of work or work belonging to the direct framework of the activity under which it is insured" shall be considered. Simplifying this means that diseases originating in nature or working conditions are likely to occur in more than one member. The detection of these occupational diseases is essential so that preventive measures can be taken as soon as possible and, where possible, prevent their occurrence in other workers. Let me mention here that the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work has pointed out that work-related diseases and injuries cost the European Union more than €476 billion per year. In accordance with Article 68(2) already mentioned, the Minister for Health is responsible for identifying occupational diseases and the parts on which they occur and for defining the procedure for identifying and reporting these diseases, as mentioned. Despite this provision, the old Professional Disease List Regulation 2003 still applies, but it does not achieve its purpose – in contrast to other countries, only some 10 of these occupational diseases are detected annually in Slovenia. Some hope for progress in this area came from the draft new regulation, which was held last spring in the public debate in 2018, but not until the end of the mandate of the former government and the then Minister of Health, as well as many other matters. I therefore ask – given the necessity of regulating the area of occupational diseases at the helm by adopting a new regulation, I am interested in: When does the Ministry plan to issue a revised Regulations on Occupational Diseases? Will you take into account the solutions that were ready for adoption last year? However, I would like an oral response at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u169	Okay, thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Franci Kepa, Minister for Infrastructure, mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I welcome everything, especially the Minister of Infrastructure! Kočev as the largest municipality in Slovenia with 563.7 square kilometers, has no highway or fast road to Ljubljana. I have relatives in the congregation of Kočevje, as well as in Ribnica, so I know this road quite well and ride it many times. Due to the lack of services in the region, there is a large daily fluctuation of employees. As there was no railway connection until recently and is still not officially open, residents between Kočev, Ribnica and the villages to Ljubljana drive to work on a regional road. For the distance of the circus, it takes an hour, two or even more to Ljubljana. The road is in certain sections in poor condition, too narrow and does not allow normal speed. After a few years, there was an economy there, an open factory of robots, which must also have a good road connection. Other factories also lived in Kočev and Ribnica and other places to Ljubljana. Employment in these foreign companies will probably require highly educated staff in the opposite direction; also from Ljubljana back to Kočevje or from other places. In order for the Japanese company to decide to set up such a development and production plant there, we can only be proud and also need to update all the infrastructure, especially the undernourished road. Because of the above limited facts and so that young people do not move out, good road connections are essential. In the past, the Ministry has stated that there are planned changes to the crossings; for example, the assembly crossing on Škofljica, the intersection of Pijava Gorica for the breakaway of Željlje, the arrangement of the connection and the bus stop for Smrljanje, the intersection for Gradište and so on. I have a question: When will a road be built, a fast road that will allow for rapid accessibility and connectivity? Since it will probably only start with the construction of a third axis from the New City towards the White Landscape and also towards Koroška, and this will be done in due course, the remaining roads are urgently needed. In the past, transport studies were also subject to a link from the Celje network via Sevnica na Trebnje and then to the Novo mesto-Ljubljana motorway. The city section by some intermediate variant could go through Mokronoga and Šmarješke Spalice to the lower highway. Are you familiar with these future routes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking, too. Undoubtedly it is an important road connection Ljubljana–Skofljica–Kočevje. Project 3.a The development axis, as it is commonly referred to as, is an update of the main road G2-106, carried out in accordance with the study of the modernisation of the road link Ljubljana–Škofljica–Kočevje, by which the necessary measures are fully evaluated to modernise the traffic link between the Kočevsko-Ribnik region and central Slovenia. The scope of the modernisation of the road link shall be 89 different measures to ensure adequate permeability or ensure adequate road network permeability and the necessary level of transport services. You yourself mentioned that, in addition to these road updates, there is also an update, an upgrade of the railway connection, which is really only open for freight transport at the moment, but for freight transport, when road safety signalling allows this, this route will be equipped, as is necessary for passenger transport. One more thing: we want – and will – the latest trains or the latest train compositions to drive along this track, and I believe they will do it sooner than in one year. As for the previously restricted road or reconstruction, I will list only the most important measures, if you agree. Reconstruction of the road at the section from Rudnik to Škofljica – measures to increase flow through the establishment of a narrow quadruple in the profile of the current roadway are being implemented. The first stage of the section from Rudnik to the beginning of Lavrica was completed in 2016. At the second stage, which includes a section from the end of the quadruple to the beginning of the Škofljica settlement, there is a process of land separation and coordination with owners with regard to the implementation of the existing borders. As regards the third stage, this refers to the road through or near Škofljica. I want to say that, for June, I agree with the mayor to meet us, sit together and see what would be the best, the easiest, the most optimal and even the fastest possible in terms of what many civil initiatives, the diverse ones that are being established in that area, as in the vast majority of other infrastructure projects, and the mayors are the ones who know their environment and their people best and can help us do so. Before I list some of the other measures, let me say that I have also received from the mayors of the other municipalities, which are somehow related to this connection, which you are referring to today. Thus, the mayors are also aware of what our ministry is predicting in this section and what it is already building or upgrading and what procedures are to be followed. But I'm going to list some of these measures. Crossroad at Škofljica Primary School: the measure is in the execution phase, the deadline for completion is approximately 150 days from the signing of the contract, which means that it will be completed in early autumn of this year. The measure is worth EUR 634 000. The intersection of Pijava Gorica, the breakaway for Željelj: the project documentation has been completed, the purchase of land is in the stage. The measure is worth EUR 612 000. Crossroad for Gradište: the implementation of the new connecting road for the settlement is in the stage of obtaining the building permit and land. The measure is worth €406,000. Kolodvorska–Ljubljanska street in Kočev: the measure is in the implementation phase, the deadline for completion is late August 2019, the value of the measure is €439,000. Spar-MOL-Inles in Ribnica: the road section is in the completion phase. The value of the measure is almost a million euros. Livold Crossroad: a project documentation, which includes a passage of the Livold–Brezovica road, which will be implemented simultaneously. Cross in Farah: the land plot is under way. Ordering the road through Grič and Breg. Once the land has been acquired, construction activities will be initiated. Pločnik Germany Vas–Prigorica: project documentation is a review. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u174	Thank you very much for the complex answer, Minister. I know there are a lot of these individual matters on this route to solve and there are different interests. However, when you are alone for certain projects, for circulars and for entrances and for extensions, I would like to say, in all these promises, a timetable for the completion of these projects and that this road would normally be flowing and serving the people of those areas. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u176	I also mentioned the problems or challenges we face on this road. Thus, Mr President, if you agree, perhaps with this somewhat more specific time frame I would like to serve you when I have yet to meet with the mayor of Škofljica to see what could be done in that context. But you can trust me that we're doing everything we can to get these things done as soon as possible. Because we have here, I'm sure, exactly the same interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u178	Thank you for the additional answer, Minister. Nevertheless, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would request a debate in the National Assembly on this subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The following question will be asked by the Minister of Culture Boštjan Koražija. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u180	Your Honor, thank you for your word. We understand books as a subject of public interest and, given that the country is also very much in the process of supporting and supporting, or at least should support, the publication of books or reading and the excellent role in providing access to books and information, and they certainly place or provide libraries, in general libraries. I also come from the general library of Ivan Ptuj on Ptuj and can therefore firsthand say that the library is essentially the heart of one city; it breathes, thinks, works. That's the way it is. The country is also expected to contribute to the purchase of materials in general libraries, together with local self-government, i.e. municipalities, in the ratio of 50 to 50; it is said every half. Professional recommendations and standards for general libraries for 2018 to 2028 prepared by the National Council for Librarian Activities within your Ministry, Mr. Minister, gave a lecture, “the recommended annual rate of book growth and brochures is at least 250 units per thousand population”. By reducing the co-financing of the purchase of books by the State by 30% since 2012, even by 50% in 2013, as in 2007, when the largest co-financing of the book fund or co-financing of books or libraries was. I can make a comparison. In 2007, 3 million €292,000 was allocated to purchase library materials, and last year there was a million €770,000. That's why I'm interested in: Specific data of the Ministry for the period from Slovenia's entry into the EU on the funds earmarked and paid for the purpose of co-financing the purchase of library material for general books. Second question: What are the urgent measures taken by the Ministry for the purchase of library materials of general libraries, given that municipalities are also squandering funds and that the Ministry's share is far from the agreed 50%? Question three: What are you planning to do for a longer-term more sustainable financing of the purchase of library material? One of the excellent proposals we made here in Levica at the last meeting of the Committee on Culture was the introduction of a zero VAT rate per book or at least a 5% VAT rate per book. I want to know: What is your opinion on this tax or VAT per book? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u182	Thank you for the question, Mr Member. Of course, the book is the foundation of all who we are. The book has been placed in the cradle with the Slovenian word and has been accompanying us for the rest of our lives. They say anyone who doesn't read in his mother tongue doesn't even think in his mother tongue. Thus, the Ministry of Culture still closely monitors everything that is going on with the Slovenian book. And not just with the book; with everything we actually print on paper or in our own language we publish in digital media. It is true that for the past ten years this area has been hit by contractions, savings, I don't know what else. It is true, though, that the law states that the priority is in fact the weight of buying new book materials from the founder, who is usually a congregation. The law also states that the Ministry participates in the purchase of all these new addresses according to budgetary capacity. Thus, for the first time in a long time, almost $2 million has been earmarked for the purchase of new materials. In this year's rebalancing, we have provided an additional 200 000 euros to buy – to give you a more plastic picture of what I'm talking about. This means that each Slovenian library has earned an additional 4 000 euros. This is kind of like, 2,000 euros for print media and 2,000 euros for electronic media publications. The second year is expected to increase this sum – also in the balance – by a quarter of a million euros and by 300,000 euros in two years. The way we try to make sure we get back to where we were 11, 12 years ago, at least as far as funding is concerned. Of course, there are many more questions to be asked here than you have already mentioned. A zero rate at this point due to the European directives, according to my information, is not possible. But you know that we are working at least for the lowest possible rate and will, of course, continue to work together. Because once again, the written word is what makes us so, to a large extent, it also makes us up. Here I have a complete chart after the years of these numbers, and I will not read them to you, but I will say this: that previous sum of EUR 3 million in 2007, if we index it with 100, we reached 60 percent again this year, almost two thirds. But it is true that, I think in 2014, this index was 0.47. This is in fact the last year, says in fact this year, seen quite a leap, about 8 to 9 percent of the increased funds for the purchase of library material. That's how I think we're going in the right direction. The government is still aware of all these issues, and I must say that I look with confidence at the years ahead. Of course, we also need to pay more attention to all these things that are being published on new digital media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u184	Thank you for saying that again. I am very pleased that Mr Minister has said that the funds for purchasing or co-financing library materials will be increased again in general libraries, but at the same time I would like to hear what he has to say about libraries as well as books themselves. According to data for 2017, the average increase in library material was 178 units per thousand population, which is in fact almost 70 units less than the National Institute recommends. What is pointed out by specific libraries is the tendency to reduce material resources, which has also been transferred to municipalities, and these have also reduced funds for the purchase of materials. As you look at the annual library implementation plans for the purchase of materials, you can see that they have been forced by the municipalities to make further compromises on the means of materials if they want to satisfy the minimum of the rules. Since libraries can only spend as much money as they have at their disposal as they have received from the State and from the municipalities, they are in a position where they are constantly unable to reach the prescribed minimums for the purchase of library material. That's why we're interested: Will the State or the Ministry also put in place certain mechanisms by which it will bind the congregations to make their obligations to libraries more regular? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u186	Thank you for these additional questions. The Ministry of Culture has no leverage to force the municipalities to respect their commitment and legal provisions in one way. As far as vision is concerned, it's like I said somewhere at the end of my previous response. Trend's moving on. The trend is good and thinks that these norms will also be achieved in one medium-term period, with such an annual increase in these funds actually being achieved. I visited the bird library myself less than a month ago, and I must say that I was impressed with everything you were able to do there. A bird library is really an exemplar example of how the library is not only a book and video rental, but in particular a point, one intersection, one social nest, so to speak, where old and young people meet, where different events take place daily, from round tables to literary evenings and so on. My vision, our vision is also, above all, to somehow empower the Slovenian libraries to further devote themselves to all these accompanying activities, to give even more of their capacity, including the spatial, available to various groups of people, to share in it, to educate themselves in it, to acquire new knowledge in it. Of course, it is also very important to say that the trend in modern society, at least in Western society, is that the reading culture, which is what it is now, in 2019, is partially moving to the screens to say so. The youth monitors everything written, even school material sometimes, even through digital platforms. My vision, as far as this is concerned, is that we are also trying to regain this reduced tax in some way to empower the entire publishing industry in Slovenia in order to commit itself to still issuing black letters on white paper, in hard or soft sheets. This is indeed a very difficult task and of course the government and the ministry at all [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u187	Mr. Secretary, time's up. Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u188	Thanks again for saying that. I propose to the National Assembly that, in order to reduce the funds for the purchase of library materials for general libraries and also to reduce the rate of book tax at the next meeting of the National Assembly, we hold a debate. If libraries are to be sufficient for their basic mission, which is to be carried out by the municipalities and the state, and is to become centres for the unlimited availability of library material and any information, and to continue to play an active role in developing modern reading culture and informing society, the State must also provide sufficient resources to achieve the required minimums and achieve them. At the last meeting of the Committee on Culture, I said a very interesting saying on my lawn: “Whoever forgets his roots will never become a proud and upright tree.” Since books and reading are our tree and roots and that our book tree will continue to be proud and upright also for future generations, I give you, you and your ministry, my friend Piki Jakob - book.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Member, on your proposal, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow in the framework of the votes. We're moving on. The next question will be asked by the Ambassador to the Minister of the Interior of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Mr Poklukar. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! It's not gonna be a gift from me, it's a question that'll probably help a lot of people. My question stems from the problem of workers who do not have a registered residence in the Republic of Slovenia and do not have the conditions for doing so. In recent times, I have met quite a few employers who face this problem in their businesses and have workers, mostly foreigners who are assigned mainly to the Member States of the European Union. However, problems arise in fulfilling the legal provisions for the application of temporary or permanent residence, since posted workers do not reside with us because of the nature of their work, most of them return to the countries where they came from after their work. With us, they stop only for a short period of time, mainly to regulate the details and formalities of their employers, banks, post offices and so on. The problems that arise are related to the need to register residence, and these problems are such that posted workers have difficulties in delivering mail, opening transaction accounts, regulating tax procedures with the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia or the Financial Administration, which further made it difficult for them to carry out the business process smoothly because they have to stop, do it and then continue working. Of course, this is not good for the employer, and that does not fit. For reasons of non-compliance with the conditions for registration of residence, administrative units often follow the implementation of the finding procedures for the registration of residences, which is perfectly correct and consistent with the legislation. It is also noted that there are fictitious applications of residences, in particular of foreigners with a residence permit, who are posted to work abroad – mainly for the purpose of avoiding administrative obstacles associated with this. Of course, we cannot take or represent fictitious reports as a solution to the problem and therefore I am interested in: Do you, and in particular, in your ministry think about changes in the legislation in force to ensure a comprehensive solution to the problem of workers who, due to the nature of their work, do not meet the conditions for applying for residence in the Republic of Slovenia? The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has already settled something when it comes to form A1 and also to the Department of Health Insurance, this is resolved, but remains an open issue in meeting the conditions for the application of residence. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u191	Thank you very much! Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Your Honor! The applicable Act on the registration of residence, the basic purpose of which is for individuals to have a registered residence at the address where they actually reside or are settled, makes the application for residence in the Republic of Slovenia conditional upon their residence in the Republic of Slovenia. It therefore provides that a person is obliged to register a permanent residence within eight days of the date of his or her residence at the address where he or she resides. The same obligation lays down for the application of temporary residence within eight days of the date of temporary residence. The registration of a permanent and temporary residence is thus primarily conditional on the actual residence at the address declared by the individual. If there is no actual residence or settlement in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, it is not possible to register a permanent or temporary residence. However, fictitious entries on the titles to justify the exercise of other rights are inadmissible. It is precisely to prevent fictitious applications, which are often related to the abuse of rights in other areas, whether the abuse of social transfers, or to the payment discipline or avoidance of enforcers, as Minister of the Interior, that I am not inclined to amend legislation on the registration of residence which would allow a fictitious or registered residence application for individual categories of employees to the address where they do not actually reside for the following reasons. It is a matter of individuals who do not reside in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia at all, and therefore it is contrary to the concepts of the registration and registration obligation to have a registered residence in the Republic of Slovenia. Cases of exploitation of foreign workers by employers or landlords are known, and in the past cases of abuse of social transfers are noted mainly because of the fictitious registration of the residence of family members. I agree that this issue needs to be addressed and that is why at the Ministry of the Interior in March 2019, this year, we have called upon all the departments to report whether there are rights or obligations in their field of work for the category of posted foreign workers subject to the right of residence in the Republic of Slovenia, which makes it difficult for this category of posted workers to exercise these rights in practice. So far, we have not received the answers of all the sources. The response of those we have already received does not, for the time being, indicate the need to amend legislation in this area. In any event, as Minister of the Interior, I will endeavour to take the most appropriate measures to address the issue at stake, including in the light of the fundamental purpose of the legislation on the registration of residences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, it seems that we both agree on this, but it is likely that, regardless of the other resources, it is necessary to find a way to get workers who are in this situation and also employers who are dealing with them to try to introduce one of the institutions of application to the company. Since this is not a settlement, it is mainly about these people being able to accept mail, especially recommended to open transaction accounts and then be properly paid and to fulfil all their obligations, including the payment of taxes and tax obligations on the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for your answer, but I think it is necessary now not to wait for the other sources and try to find one mode that will help employers in particular because they need you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Minister, is there anything else you'd like to add to your answer? No, no, no. Then let's move on. The following Member Boris Doblekar will raise an oral question to the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mag. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Article 64 of the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act provides that an employer who fails to meet a quota with disabled persons and who has a contract of business with a disabled person or centre may reduce the obligation to pay a contribution to promote the employment of disabled persons by implementing a replacement quota. A contract concluded and implemented for business cooperation with a disability undertaking or employment centre shall be considered as a substitute for the implementation of the quota. The quoted provision restricts the possibility of applying a replacement quota whereby the employer can reduce the obligation to pay a contribution to promote employment of persons with disabilities, restricts only and only to a contract of business cooperation concluded with disabled companies or employment centres, but not with social enterprises that employ disabled persons, although social enterprises, in the same way as disabled companies and employment centres, pursue the primary objective of meeting the needs of their stakeholders and the non-profit nature of their activities and act in accordance with the principle of solidarity and reciprocity. It is estimated that such a distinction between the employment centres of disabled companies on the one hand and the social enterprises employing disabled persons on the other, as, despite the different legal and organisational forms, it is in all three cases for operators of the social economy or non-profit private organisations established for the social purpose of serving members or the wider community and in the sharing of profits that favour people and work against capital. Let me give you a sample example from Zasavje, where there is a need to fight for every job and social situation is not pink. The Inter-Ministerial Society of Disabled Persons founded a social company under its auspices three years ago, bearing the common name of the Inter-Ministerial Society of Disabled People of the municipalities of Lithija and Šmartno pri Lithija, a social company. The aim of additional activities in society is to generate income on the market, which raises the level of aid for disabled people. They hired four colleagues from the most vulnerable groups of people with disabilities — out of a total of six employees. I ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities: Is it right that social enterprises that employ the majority of people with disabilities cannot implement the purpose of the social mission and do not have the same opportunities as related disabled companies and employment centres? Until when will social enterprises with disabled people be able to participate in the quota replacement scheme and will not be able to participate in a local environment where they would work with local employers? I propose and propose that the competent ministry prepare an amendment to Article 64 of the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act, which will allow for the replacement of the quota which reduces the obligation to pay the contribution to promote employment of persons with disabilities, be considered also a contract of business cooperation concluded with a social undertaking which employs persons with disabilities as a percentage, as is the case with a disabled company or a centre of employment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. According to the Social Entrepreneurship Act, a social enterprise is a non-profit legal person who acquires the status of a social enterprise and can thus be a society, institution, institution, economic society, cooperative, European cooperative or other private legal person who is not established solely for the purpose of earning profits and not dividing property, nor does it share the income generated over expenditure. The register of social enterprises published by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology shall be held at 17. 5. 2019 of 260 social enterprises enrolled. In 2018, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities requested the Public Fellowship, Development and Disabled Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for data from employees in social enterprises. The data collected refer to day 31. 1. 2018, when 258 social enterprises were entered in the register of social enterprises, i.e. only two fewer. We estimate that the data have not changed significantly in one year, since it is 17. 5. 260 social enterprises have been entered in that record, as already stated. However, it is important to note that 137 social enterprises out of 258 had no employees. In all social enterprises, 450 people were employed together, of which only 42 were disabled. These figures may be reduced by 29 employees or 14 persons with disabilities, as two social enterprises also have the status of an employment centre. In one social enterprise, however, the employment centre is the only social one. In view of the above, 421 employees were employed in 118 social enterprises, of which only 28 were disabled. The social enterprise, with the largest number of employees, is the association of societies with a obtained concession to perform one of the social security services, employing 114 people, of which only two persons with disabilities. 103 social enterprises have up to 5 employees. It follows from the above that very few disabled persons are employed in social enterprises. The possibility of a replacement quota is given to employers who are bound by the quota to give work to disabled companies who have to employ at least 40% of disabled persons from employment centres with obligations of 50% of disabled persons. As already mentioned above, social enterprises may be companies, establishments, institutions, companies and so on whose primary activity is not economic. Social enterprises can acquire, and I would like to stress this in particular, the status of the disabled company, with the latest amendment of legislation or the employment centre. Both statuses are therefore not excluded. A social enterprise may also be a disabled company or have the status of an employment centre. Therefore, if a social undertaking fulfils the conditions for obtaining the status of a disabled undertaking, i.e. at least 40% of the disabled person employed, or of the employment centre, at least 50% of the disabled person employed, it may conclude contracts for business cooperation with employers who wish to fulfil the quota for the employment of disabled persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Would you like a word explaining the request to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u200	Dear Minister, thank you very much for your answer. Otherwise, I got some clues about centres and social enterprises, but I will rely on the question and also an additional question that I have also had prepared. However, I would expect more concrete answers with a remittance in view of my initial discussion or the question raised with regard to the existing law and Article 64. Therefore, more concrete responses by directing the Ministry or government to recognize the great problem and injustice caused by this anomaly to the disabled or the socially weak; and as quickly as possible to eliminate the anomaly and to prepare a solution for the social enterprises that employ the disabled and enable them to have an equal position with related companies having the same mission and carrying out the same activity. The disabled companies were set up by social enterprises because in the given situation this was the only option. Accordingly, it would seem reasonable for social enterprises which employ disabled persons to be equal to disabled companies and employment centres, also with regard to the right to apply a substitute quota by employers to reduce the obligation to pay a contribution to promote employment of disabled persons in a way that would be concluded with a social undertaking which employs disabled persons. This would make the situation of social enterprises employing persons with disabilities more equal to that of disabled companies and employment centres. As many times are full of social mouths and the sense of the socially weak that Europe's orientations are, with as many incentives for employment as possible and the better position of people with disabilities, that governments have also given incentives, I expect that we will finally only listen to the social enterprises that employ people with disabilities. So once again, I ask you, Madam Secretary-General: When or when will we allow social enterprises to have an equal and equal position, a better quality of life for people with disabilities and local employers to benefit from the inclusion of these social enterprises in the quota scheme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u202	Thank you very much for complementing the question. As I said in the introduction, more than half of social enterprises have no employees at all. The largest social company with 114 employees employs only two persons with disabilities. As already mentioned above, if a social undertaking fulfils the conditions for acquiring the status of a disabled company, this status may be acquired because both statuses are not mutually exclusive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Minister, for this addition to the answer. Of course, I completely understand and also see that you have gone into the matter, i.e. to meet the conditions. I will also ask myself if this is even possible, so that we can help these social enterprises that are in more serious trouble. There's a lot of cases like this. I have relied on a specific case from our Zasavje, Lithuania and Šmartno pri Lithija, where this Inter-Ministerial Society of Disabled Persons in the municipality of Lithija and Šmartno has a total of 630 disabled persons with disability status and 295 support members. Three years ago, a social enterprise was set up within society, acting as one legal person. The purpose of the establishment is to provide services on the market, to obtain additional resources to improve the functioning of society. This also reduces the contribution of people with disabilities to the use of social services. It should be noted, however, that all the activities of society and the social enterprise are intended to help people with disabilities to solve their daily problems. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I therefore propose that we discuss the reply of the Minister and the difficulty of the issue at the next meeting of the National Assembly and we are working together to identify another of the many problems of the disabled and to correct Article 64 of the Employment Rehabilitation and Employment Act, if necessary. However, if we find that these statements, which the Minister has now given in response, hold and will be made available to these social enterprises in some other way so that they can come to what has also been asked of this question, so that they can be included in the quota replacement scheme in companies, in particular local companies, where they would, of course, want to be able to employ people with disabilities or to provide services in their businesses, then we may all understand from this debate that this is enough and we will be able to advise those social enterprises if they are not aware of it or have not included that this change of law was made. And then there will be no need to correct Article 64 of this Law. But if we have to, we'll hand over the activities. We believe that the ministry will also be involved, and at the same time the Ministry of Economy. We will make cross-cutting coordination and take this issue seriously, and we will also allow these social enterprises and people with disabilities an equal position in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Jana Ivanuš will ask a question of the delegation to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertonclj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u206	Mr. Vice President, Ministers and Minister, other present, a nice greeting! In view of all the good news and bad news in Slovenia, I am more interested in some positive stories or example of good practice of one of the budgetary users. I will ask the Minister for sweet answers, if they exist. I have five questions: How many budget users had excess revenue over expenditure in 2018? In 2018, which budgetary users had surplus revenue over expenditure? Why is overexpenditure being used? Is he going back to the state budget? Can the budget user use it for his or her operation? Can the budgetary user transfer the surplus to the following year? Is there a rule? Does the Ministry of Finance reduce the surplus for budget users for next year if, of course, there is a surplus in the previous year? In what way does the Ministry of Finance reward budget users with surplus? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u208	Thank you. Your Honor! The budgetary users, who are direct, such as the Ministry, municipalities, and indirect, such as public institutions, public agencies, public funds, are part of the whole sector of the country. In 2018, according to Sursa's data, it generated a total of EUR 337 million and 0.7% of the gross domestic product of the surplus, as measured by the ESA methodology. When you asked me after a positive story, this is a positive story that the Republic of Slovenia has a budget surplus after ten years of budget deficits; not to mention another 24 billion euros. I hope that these budgetary surpluses will also remain good practice that we are discussing. Now for some information. In this context, the data from the 2018 annual reports totalled 2 000,642 budget users, of which a thousand 473 direct and a thousand 169 direct budget users. In 2018, between indirect budgetary users, the surplus over expenditure or expenditure on cash flows showed 825 budgetary users, the balance sheet had 15 units, and the deficit had 633 units. The budgetary users shall transmit the data contained in the annual reports to the authorised agency, i.e. Apes, which shall be authorised in accordance with Article 71 of the Law on Payments to collect, process and transmit data from the annual reports of business entities in accordance with the laws and for the public publication of annual reports and other data from companies, independent entrepreneurs and other business entities in accordance with the Law on Economic Companies and Other Laws. Data on individual budget users are thus made public and available on the APIS website. With regard to the question of the purpose for which surpluses of budgetary users are used, I would like to clarify that spending depends on the organisational form of the budgetary user. Thus, for example, the Law on Institutions for those budgetary users organised in the status form of a public institution provides that the institution may only use excess revenue over expenditure to carry out and develop activities, unless otherwise specified by the act establishing the institution. In practice, it means that different public institutions in the acts establishing certain different options for spending their income on expenditure, and in addition to that provision, it offers the founders the possibility to provide in the Act of Establishment that the public institution will reimburse the surplus of revenue on expenditure to the budget of the founder or the financier, since it is not necessary for the founder to be an exclusive financier. The creation act may also provide for the reduction of transfers from the budget to the individual public institution in the coming year. However, where the budgetary user is organised in the status form of a public institution, the Public Funds Act provides that the surplus of revenue over expenditure of the public fund shall first be earmarked for the financing and operation of the public fund in the current year; if there is more such surplus, the founder may allocate it to increase the purpose of the public fund or leave it unallocated. There can be no single answer regarding the consumption of revenue surpluses over expenditure, as the various laws and acts of incorporation regulate the content in different ways. The consumption of surpluses is also determined by the Fiscal Rule Act, which refers to the need to pay surpluses into a separate account and can only be used for debt repayment if the unit is in deficit or to cover losses in years of sub-potential growth. In connection with the question of whether the Ministry of Finance can reduce the budget users' surplus for the next year, we explain that how the expenditure surpluses over expenditure will be spent is determined by the government or the competent ministry or the various councils of institutions; not by the Ministry of Finance. In view of the above, the Ministry of Finance cannot, in its own capacity, reward those budgetary users that generate surpluses; it cannot, as mentioned above, reward them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u210	If I understand correctly, for 2018 the state has shown more than €337 million. That's very nice to hear or thank God if there's more of this. You said there were direct users here, I didn't know that, that formula is very unknown to me, which you mentioned at the outset. And I'm going to ask you another question: Could there also be NGOs in this response? We know that they are non-governmental, under quotations, but those who are bound to the budget are also budget consumers; we also know that the country has a lot of problems with them. Are the Lts trapped in here, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u212	Thank you. The Ministry of Finance is not responsible for the transmission of data on individual budgetary users, but, as I have stated, this information is publicly available and is accessible in the Apes system. Otherwise, the general rule applies that surpluses in certain years are used to cover losses in previous years. We all know our situation from past years, which was not pink to put it this way, from 2008 to 2017 we created 24 billion deficits. In 2017, there was a positive zero, only 5 million, which we can call a positive zero, in 2018 337 million, and for this year again plus, we are planning a budget surplus of around 200 million euros. And according to the technique of this, this part is to cover past losses, to compensate, which means we're going to need a lot of time to cover past sins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u214	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you gave me an interesting answer, but still. I don't know about that formula. I'll try it with a written parliamentary question. I won't know otherwise. But because the thing is interesting, I realized that even these 337 million that came into existence are actually just on paper, they're possible to cover the minus from the past. That's what you said. What's up? Since this is an interesting debate, I think it is right to learn more about this subject, so I am using Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a debate on this, and we will get a number of answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Marko Bandelli will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags an oral question. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u216	Thank you, President, for your word. One nice greeting, Minister, on my behalf and, of course, on behalf of our Group of Members. Today is a hard day for you, a lot of questions, but it will be over soon. I don't have more than that. More than one opinion, one thing that is weighing our tradesmen and entrepreneurs. As you know, days ago, Slovenian craftsmen were shocked by the news that the Assembly of the Trade and Entrepreneurs' Fund, the so-called SOP, confirmed in a second attempt the reduction of pensions by 30,4 %. The first vote ended undecided and in the second, the opponents of the vote were voted down. As members are also to be threatened with lawsuits in the event of opposition to the proposal, it is not surprising that this time the story ended differently. In Slovenia, there are already too many pensioners who, despite hard work and paying their contributions, receive too low a pension or a pension that does not allow them to survive with dignity. The SOP will now practically increase this risk of poverty in the number of good 9,000 individuals who have saved in good faith for decades for retirement and safe age. The 30% reduction in pensions is large and excessive at any amount. Even more problematic is the fact that professional pensions are on average only EUR 84. It is quite clear that the problems did not occur yesterday, so the indignation of the beneficiaries is understandable. It is also justified to disappoint them by the fact that they have to take over the fund's resolution. On the other hand, the SOP points out that pensions should be reduced, as the state of reimbursement of the fund fell heavily in 2016 and reduced them from 6 million to 600,000 euros. According to Prime Minister Bojan Jean, discussions with the Ministry on this subject are still under way. Mag. Klampfer, the craftsmen are interested: What's the phase of this conversation right now? According to the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Mr Meh, representatives of the Chamber are also speaking to you, who believe that the solution is a transfer from the mutual pension insurance of the SOP together with the savings to the ZPIZ. It is true that the first husband of PPIZ, Marian Pope, does not favor this move. What's your opinion on the problems that have arisen? Do you see any other options for protecting citizens who will be severely affected by the measure? Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u218	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking! In opening, I would like to point out that the State committed in 2000 to cover part of the liabilities for the payment of occupational pensions from the State budget, namely for insured persons who were included in the Fund of Merchants and Entrepreneurs, and from the introduction of the Fund of Insurance to 1. 1. 1983. This commitment shall be consistently fulfilled. For all other retired fund members who had a period of inclusion after 1983, the funds were never provided from the state budget. The Act on the calculation of the financial obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in pension and disability insurance, which reduced its obligations, was adopted in the previous term by a large majority of the votes of Members and Members. The purpose of the amendments was to clearly regulate the definition of State funding in accordance with the basic purpose of the law, as there were disputes between the Fund and the State concerning the interpretation of the provisions on the level of the annual obligation. In the past, in view of the judgments of the Courts, the State had to pay, instead of the initially envisaged partial cost cover, amounts which had repeatedly exceeded the costs of the Fund's operation. With the Ministry of Finance, we represent the same position, namely that the current regulation of the scope of the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia to the fund arising from the law is appropriate and therefore there are currently no changes to the legislation in this area. I would like to point out that the transfer to the PSI requires the consent of all the social partners, as this transfer would give all the other categories of insurers the solidarity to take over part of the burden of the fund. The Fund is a private legal entity which owns 100 % of the members of the Fund, who also regulate and determine the rights and the level of those rights. Their rules regarding occupational retirement and the amount of pensions are adopted by the insured themselves in their own congregation. These rules even state that they can reduce their pensions by 50%. At the Ministry, we estimate that the state's current obligation to the fund by law is around €0.7 million per year, the appropriate amount of the State's participation in the costs of the fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u220	Thank you, Minister. What a real problem this is, it is understood in the final stage. First of all, I would like to commend all the ministers that you were in Portorož at the entrepreneurship forum, where we as Members were, because this is one sign that the government does not care about this. You know that capillaries, hearts, the blood of our economy are micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; and we have to show them one way or another solidarity if I say so. That day I listened very well to you in Portorož and I was pleased that you would support them, that somehow you would try to understand them and see what else could be done on the government side. Because you need to know that there are not only 9,000 people here, but there are 3,000 other people who are not craftsmen, because others have been putting money into this fund, so are relatives and others who were. I think these people were kind of screwed. If we used a slightly rougher term, we could say ospy, in that sense, but let's just leave it. Probably what is happening now is that they are hiding in the name of this congregation, which is now deciding on it. It's about blocking what they want, the 180 million who are still in this line because they want to transfer them to insurance. I think it's going to be cruel at that point, because then it's probably going to be zero, not just 30%, but there's going to be a very big problem here. Here we see the protection of the weakest article in society, these are these savers at the moment or what they might be called. I'm sure I believe in you that somehow you will listen, help them at the government level, help those craftsmen who really deserve it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u222	Thank you so much for the update. As I mentioned in the introduction, the fund is a private legal entity. They themselves adopt their own funding rules and, although the state has committed a total of 116 million in recent years, it does not have any so-called management rights. All the rules are accepted by the Fund itself. Any initiatives will come from the fund to the ministry or to the government, this will certainly have to be a broader consensus, a decision will be needed to amend the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and also the decisions of the other social partners, which will have to be adopted unanimously. We will certainly listen, but we still need to know that this is a private legal entity that sets its own rules; and the country does not actually have any rights here. However, if the proposal is put forward, the initiative to resolve this within the PSI will, as it is said, require the consent of all social partners; not me as a minister or government, but a broader social consensus, as all the provisions of the PPIZ are always adopted in agreement with all the social partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u223	Thank you very much. It's a Magnificent message. Bojana Muršič will raise an oral question to Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u224	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! We have already encountered the same problem of accessibility to postal services in the previous term. The rationalisation of business and the closure of post offices is essentially continuing and accessibility to postal services is also hampered by this. It is difficult to understand that its business Post Slovenia allows the acquisition of other companies, while the number of businesses is decreasing. In doing so, we must be aware that the existence of a post office in the place does not only mean access to postal services; the post office also represents a key public service, which in particular means a clear sign of equal treatment for residents of smaller, peripheral areas and proof that their place is on the map. Two years ago you replied to me that the Post of Slovenia is an economic company, here we agree, and for its revenues it is competing on the market. It competes with competitors who do not need to worry about public interest and do not need to provide businesses and presences in remote places; who can, after all, decide not to offer certain services in an area. The post office of Slovenia is and must be a different company. In line with the State's Capital Investment Management Strategy, it is included in strategic investments. This means that it is not subject to and cannot be applied to all arguments concerning the ordinary economic society and the legal person of private law. I am also well aware of the market pressures to which the Post of Slovenia is exposed, and I understand that it must continuously rationalise and adapt its business. But it is not possible to get rid of the feeling that everything is not being done for the benefit of the little people living on the edge. The closure of businesses is mainly carried out in remote areas where other public services are lacking and where free market operators have no interest in compensating the deficit brought about by the abolition of the post office. If it is somehow possible to understand that the business network needs to be adjusted, it is certainly not possible to understand what they are removing from larger centres, that it is not possible to do so in the centres themselves. Thus, businesses that are the only ones in the place are closed down, while in places that have more businesses, their number does not decrease. Therefore, I cannot get rid of the feeling that the Post of Slovenia has gone more along the line of least resistance and in line with the selfish interests of the owner, instead of having people in front of her whom she was created. That's why I'm asking you, Minister: What will you do as a competent minister to stop the Post Office of Slovenia from closing post offices in smaller places outside urban centres?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u226	Mr President, honourable Member, thank you for the question. Messengers and Members! In the public interest of the Republic of Slovenia, all postal users in its territory have provided, under the same conditions, a permanent, regular and smooth provision of universal postal services. Currently operating in the Republic of Slovenia 495 contact points or mail for contacts with users, of which 330 are regular, own mail, 140 contract mail and 25 mobile mail. The situation in the postal service market has changed significantly in recent years. The increased volume of electronic communications and modern technologies reduces the number of mail transfers and decreases the number of postal visits. Slovenia's post office is facing major structural changes in the postal market. This is a general trend which requires the adjustment of the network in all European Union countries to the changing needs of users. The General Act on the quality of the provision of universal postal service in Article 4, paragraph 4, provides that the universal postal service provider shall comply with the network density requirement if two conditions are cumulatively met. Firstly, in each municipality in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia there is at least one contact point organised as a post office or contract post office. Secondly, for 95 % of the population of the Republic of Slovenia the air distance to the nearest post office or contract post office does not exceed 4,5 km. If both of these conditions are met and the prescribed quality of universal postal service in an area covered by a specific contact point will not deteriorate after its transformation or closure, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, Akos, shall issue an agreement on the proposed conversion or closure. The procedure for closing or reshaping the contact point shall always be initiated at the request of Post Slovenia. In doing so, I must point out that the decision to reshape or close the contact point is taken on the basis of an analysis of the business and taking into account several factors. The number of services provided, the number of customer visits and the economic result of the operation shall be taken into account. The country through Akosa closely monitors the transformation of Post Slovenia and for this purpose surveys and analyses are carried out to identify the needs and satisfaction of users with postal services. According to a user satisfaction survey by contract post for 2017, the majority of respondents are satisfied with the transformation, as well as an explanation for the transformation of the postal network was published on the Akosa website as early as January 2018. Let me further explain that Posta Slovenije, d. o. o., is a company owned by the Republic of Slovenia, managed by the Slovenian State Holding Company; however, it is organised and operated as an economic company in accordance with the Company Act. Since it is defined as a strategic undertaking, it is an obligation for it to operate under the Company Act and must have such or other positive results. The postal service of Slovenia is thus obliged to carry out its activities in a manner and in a form that is cost-effective and economical, as it creates all its revenues in a competitive market. Once again, the Post Office is fully in compliance with the requirements regarding network density throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and for all its citizens. Comparative data from European countries show that Slovenia is one of the European countries with a higher network accessibility, taking into account the criteria for the number of inhabitants per contact point or surface in kilometres covered by one contact point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Minister, I listened very carefully to your answer. It follows that you, after all, support this reorganisation of post offices. You are also blind to the fact that the Agency for Communications Networks and Services does so to find that, depending on the density and overall, this is acceptable to you. The postal service of Slovenia, once again, must ensure public interest. And it's a different company, the Posta Slovenije company is owned by a hundred percent of the state. As you yourself stated, in line with the Capital Investment Management Strategy, it is included in strategic investments. We can't forget that. You said he made a profit. It should be pointed out that the Slovenian Post Office generated 10.4 million euros in profit in 2010. Thus, it has sufficient resources to ensure the provision of postal services in an appropriate manner at remote locations. Why am I saying that? It happened in a specific case, from which I also assume that the municipality leased the premises of the post office for the purpose of providing the public service; it also paid a reduced rent of EUR 5 per square. And certain funds were invested in the opening of this office, which then accounted for by rent. I must tell you that the rent has not been charged yet, which means that the Post Office of Slovenia has kept this space, which is now empty, no one can use this space by the municipality. That's unacceptable to me. If we went to any settlement, the cost of the local community here is very high. It's just unacceptable to me. If someone closes the premises, let them also release them, for the congregation has rented spaces for a very low rent, as I mentioned, and for the public good; but not for the purpose of keeping this place empty.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u230	Thank you for complementing the question. I have to say exactly that we support the reorganisation of Mail only under the conditions that I spoke about earlier. Mail must ensure that universal postal services are performed. I can't comment on a specific case because you haven't asked me an exact question. If I got it, I'd try to answer what you just said. In any case, I would like to reiterate what a universal postal service is, beyond which we cannot go to any congregation; and this is what the state provides. Universal service is a permanent, regular and smooth operation of one or more by means of the Postal Service Act of certain postal services. It is characterised by the quality prescribed throughout or in part of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and by prices available to all service users. In order to get an answer to the question of what universal services are, however, the following postal services include: firstly, reception, orientation, transport and delivery of postal shipments up to a weight of two kilograms; secondly, reception, guidance, transportation and delivery of postal packages up to a weight of ten kilograms; thirdly, services recommended and value mail; and fourthly, the transfer of postal parcels for blind and visually impaired. A universal service shall provide all postal service users with at least five working days per week for at least one reception and one delivery per day to the home or to the premises of each natural or legal person. These are the conditions we can't go through, and here the mail can't reduce what I just said. If there is any change in this area, the country will certainly act. After we have the data from the analyses, as I said, from 2017 and 2018, these conditions are met. When you say that strategic companies are subject to different business rules; no, that's not true. Strategic companies are important to the country and therefore the country has a different relationship with them. Each company – strategically, importantly and normally – must operate under the Company Act and must achieve results. And we can't get past the fact that the content of the mail is changing dramatically. After all, we are now doing one thing at the gas stations and we are buying spare parts for cars in the post office. Mails such as this are not and these changes need to be followed, of course at the strictest, once again, by respect for the provision of universal postal services for all municipalities in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u232	I'm going to abuse procedure. I fully understand you, Minister of Respect – yes, which I said in advance that I will abuse – because one is the public interest. A 100 % state-owned economic public service must provide public interest. The problem is that in remote places, businesses are closed, where older people can't just get through and get to that post office. I am speaking specifically on the case, but I really don't want to argue about specific cases, because it is not only this area that is problematic. 14 days ago, we were informed that there was this problem in Maribor. Now I've been informed that even in Kočev there are these problems. In fact, this escalated now across Slovenia. We were two years ago before these businesses were shut down, and now it's going on; I don't know where else we're going. However, I have seen that the Slovenian Post Office was appointed as universal postal service providers for the period from 1 June 2018 to 31 May 2023 by a decision of the previous year, which means that we can expect more termination of these post offices. I sincerely hope, Minister, that you will advocate that this will not happen and that we will make it possible for all to have an accessible public interest and accessible postal services. It is also true that you have stated that postal services are being reduced as postal services, but package delivery and packages are still. And there are more and more. And citizens also give them, but older citizens, if they send any package to their locals, they simply can't send it because older people can't get to the post office. We have between one and the other e-mails, which I'm specifically talking about, four and a half miles. Some people can't even get to the bus stop. We are now using this to try to bring transport from the city itself to the center of Ruš because I am specifically talking about the Russians. But this is not a solution; here the local community must provide its costs in order to ensure that these citizens are equally accessible to postal services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have violated the rules of procedure. It wasn't nice because you're an experienced MP. In the future, please do not do this to other Members. You've had a debate, and there's no need to repeat these things. The Magnificent Messenger. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of the Interior Boštjan Poklukar and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Mir Cerar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister! Our Koroška Slovenka, a member of the European Parliament, Dr Angelika Mlinar, to whom we are extremely proud at the Alenka Bratušek Party, sent a protest note to Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz on 13 May concerning the unjustified border control at the Slovenian-Austrian border. It is a non-European move, an unnecessary move that harms the Slovenian economy, which disturbs people on both sides of the border; while many Styrians who migrate to Austria on a daily basis to work face indescribable columns, which extend their journey to work and work for more than an hour. Since its entry into the European Union, Slovenia has fulfilled all the necessary conditions for the establishment of a Schengen system. There are practically no illegal migrations between Austria and Slovenia. It strives to ensure order at the Slovenian-Croatian border, which is the external Schengen border. That's why I want to know: What is the position of our Ministry of Interior and Foreign Affairs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor! I will answer that question. Together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Cerar, we agreed to answer only me, because the position of the Republic of Slovenia regarding border controls at the internal borders of the European Union and Slovenia's position has remained unchanged since 2015: it is a measure disproportionate and unnecessary and there is no reason for it. This has already been said by the former Minister of the Interior in the previous term, and I repeat that. Internal border controls have been carried out since 2015 by the Republic of Austria, Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Norway and France. We have repeatedly warned the European Commission that we want to ensure that European Union legislation is consistently implemented and that it is an unjustified use of the European Union's internal border control institute. Slovenia also expects the new European Commission to implement legislation more decisively, as internal border controls are not needed, especially at the internal borders of the Republic of Austria. I also made clear to the Austrian Minister himself in a telephone conversation on 25 April this year the position of the Republic of Slovenia and our disagreement with this measure. Let me also say here that the police at all levels of information exchange and meetings object to disagreeing with this measure. I have also given my disagreement to the European Commissioner for Internal Security, Mr King, on his visit to Slovenia, and on several occasions at the side of the Home Affairs Ministers' meeting, I have also warned the Austrian Minister that this is an unnecessary measure. As far as the numbers are concerned, Austria returned 20 foreigners to the Slovenian police, who illegally crossed the Slovenian-Austrian border by 16 May this year. This means that there is no need to protect the Austrian border and that columns are working at the internal border for the purposes of the control exercised by the Republic of Austria to influence the flow of traffic, especially in Karavanka, where, at the holidays, especially at the end of the season, there are long columns waiting for entry in the Republic of Austria. I also expressed my disagreements. As Minister of the Interior, I will continue to point out to the Council of Ministers of the Interior and also to bilateral talks that this is a disproportionate measure, an unnecessary measure and that there is in fact no reason for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Before I put my word forward, I would like to point out that in this case, it was the will of Minister Cerar. The question was addressed in due time, including in the announcement correctly. The President of the National Assembly also ordered that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Cerar, be responsible. Dr Cerar has not apologized, so I propose that an appropriate letter be addressed to the Government concerning the cooperation or unfair participation of Minister Cerar in this item on the agenda. Member, please choose a word to complete the request for reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u238	Dear Minister, thank you so much for the correct answer. I must point out that in the Alenka Bratušek Party we reject Austria's actions and its attitude towards interpreting the Schengen provisions in its own way. This is similar to what Croatia does when the provisions of international law are essentially decided in the way it feeds, and cogent standards are interpreted in a dissensive way. Thank you very much again for the correct answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u239	Thank you very much. It's a Magnificent message. Meira Hot will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc and Minister of Health Aleš Šabedra. Both ministers are absent. If you want an oral response to the next sitting, you should express this in particular. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u240	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, minister! The World Conference on Radiocommunications will adopt common rules this year to regulate the introduction of the fifth generation mobile network or 5G into the European Union, which means, of course, Slovenia. In view of the European Commission's legislative promises, the 5G network in the European Union is expected to become fully operational for public and commercial purposes as of 2020. All major cities, main highways and highways should be accessible and extended. The technology is supposed to reach into our homes. This technology brings many advantages to the user, especially in the form of faster data transmission. This will also be of great benefit to service providers, as they will be able to offer services that are now only available to users of the classic Internet. However, as regards the environmental impact of the network concerned and the potential health impacts on humans and animals, the professional public is not uniform. I am convinced that the Minister is aware of the international petition signed by 235 foreign scientists and doctors by 16 May 2019, who have called on the European Union to a moratorium on the introduction of the network concerned, pending an independent study that would clearly show that the introduction of the network concerned and increased electromagnetic radiation will have no significant impact and impact on human health and the environment. Scientists argue that the introduction of the 5G network to the already existing 2G, 3G and 4G network will exceptionally increase exposure to radio-frequency electromagnetic radiation, which has already proved to be harmful to humans and the environment. All signed scientists claim that technology can have negative health and environmental effects due to increased and, in particular, denser horizontal electromagnetic radiation. On the other hand, it is true that many scientists argue the opposite; that such observations are pointless and that the 5G network is not to be harmful to the environment. However, the fact is that 5G is different in its operation from its predecessor and introduces some novelties into our environment. While we support the development of new telecommunications solutions in the Group of Social Democrats, we still believe that prior to such an intervention it is necessary to clarify the polarised professional opinion and provide the public with answers to health and environmental questions. We want to know: What is the official assessment of the consequences of the implementation of the 5G network in Slovenia? Who made the grade? Has an independent survey been carried out in Slovenia by the competent authorities on the consequences of the implementation of the 5G network? Has any kind of research been carried out at the European Union level? I request an oral response at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Ambassador Vojko Starović will ask Health Minister Aleš Šabedra, who is absent. I also ask you to determine whether you want an oral or written answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u242	I'd like an oral response, please. Due to the cancellation of employment contracts by many family medicine doctors in the Kranj Health House area, the home director said she was overwhelmed and confused. However, in their own words, the extreme measure of job failure was adopted by family doctors due to overwork. Due to the recent decision of the Government, which replaced the Annex No. 1, the upper limit of the burden of family doctors was reduced to a thousand 895 head restraints. As a result, doctors moved the final withdrawal period to fall. However, other working conditions that require regulation are open, including the de-liberation of work. Interestingly, however, other health homes in Slovenia do not have any more serious complications and problems than they have in the Kranj Health House. On the contrary, Ljubljana’s Health Home – the largest healthcare home in Slovenia – received the Ljubljana City Award for its good work a few days ago. Minister, you can explain the differences. By autumn, will you be able to respond and implement appropriate solutions to ensure uninterrupted health care for the inhabitants of Kranj? Do these solutions include debirocratization of work? Research makes it clear that a sense of autonomy in the performance of work is crucial for good work and satisfaction at work; however, autonomy in the work of a doctor is becoming less and less. Rather than allowing modern information technology to serve as a burden on the workforce, it is turning at a dizzying rate into a tool of command and control that destroys the autonomy of employees. It is all written in the satisfaction of bureaucrats in the form of rules, regulations, standards and protocols. To conclude, the Ministry of Health does not have a direct impact on the functioning and organisation of health homes, because its founders are municipalities. However, as the health situation has deteriorated for a number of years at the primary level, I ask: Is the Ministry considering amending legislation in order to increase the Ministry's competence in key segments or where the biggest problems arise? As part of the government, the Ministry has a legal initiative which, in my humble opinion, is not exploiting enough. If we continue to revolve around jurisdiction, I'm sure we won't get far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Only Bevk will raise a question of the delegation to the Minister of Health, Aleš Šabedra. I also ask you for a definition of an oral or written response.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Hospital infections are seen as one of the major public health problems in the world and Europe, of course also in Slovenia. They cannot be completely prevented, but we can very successfully and also very cheaply reduce their frequency. The latest Slovenian survey conducted in 2001 showed that on the day of the survey, 6.4% of patients with hospital infection were in all Slovenian acute care hospitals. Most patients get infected due to poor hygiene of the hands of healthcare professionals, from doctors to nurses and others, because they do not disinfect their hands regularly and not every time they contact a patient. Regular hygiene and hand-infection are also the cheapest measures to prevent hospital infections. When I first asked this question to Dr Dusan Kebru at the beginning of 2001, I indicated that hospital infections in Slovenian hospitals at the annual level caused the death of between 400 and 600 patients. The Minister did not object to this statement. This is several times more than all traffic fatalities at annual level. The results of the study carried out in connection with hospital infections in 2001 were devastating. At that time, the National Commission for the Management of Hospital Infections was also set up to report and propose measures to improve the situation in the fight against infections as an independent institution of the Ministry of Health. According to the experts at the time, infections could be limited to the Scandinavian level, which is the lowest in Europe, only after more than ten years. That is why I propose to the Minister that he introduce a new state-level study, not only in hospitals, but also in nursing homes, to see if hospital infection management measures have improved the situation in this area. This is also one of the most important health care indicators in hospitals. Today, we do not have an official record of how many patients die in a hospital. But we're talking more than a few hundred unnecessary deaths. In the light of the Minister's words, I ask: What is he going to do in this area? What are the measures or measures to reduce hospital infections in Slovenian hospitals and nursing homes? Since the Minister is absent, I ask him to answer me at the next meeting of the National Assembly when the answers to the questions raised by the Members are next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u245	Thank you very much. That's what's gonna happen. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Ambassador Alexander Reberšek will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u246	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! Not only illegal, but also legal migrations have escaped Slovenia from control. Work magazine writes on May 6th, citation: “If this goes on, in a decade there will be a quarter of all foreigners in Slovenia.” Unsupervised migration also puts the social system at risk. Facts are, there are several applications for foreign residence permits on administrative units each year. In the first three months of this year alone, our country has already issued 9 000 2 permits for temporary and permanent residence. At our embassies, they believe that Slovenia needs a sieve to stay foreigners as is known by European legislation. For a third of the foreigners coming, Slovenia is only a stepping stone to the European Union because they work in other countries, while in Slovenia they enjoy the benefits of the health and social system. We have already received from abroad indications that Slovenia is importing the labour force into the European Union. We are also witnessing the emergence of a so-called shopping visa, which means that foreigners who come to Slovenia are otherwise employed in a company registered in our country but are actually working abroad. Under the current legislation, their families can come to Slovenia after one year, even though there are no fathers in Slovenia. As a result, we also have a record high number of beneficiaries of social assistance in the last ten years at a record low unemployment rate. As reported in The Work newspaper on April 29th, the number of recipients of social transfers has already risen to 91,000 595. The wages and standards of the domestic working class in Slovenia cannot grow if it is faced with a constant inflow of cheaper labour from abroad. It is precisely the people with the lowest income that such a migration policy is most affected. Workers in Slovenia also work for change. How can a left - centered government possibly have such a stepmotherly attitude toward work? Dear Minister, this is not a criticism of immigrants, but of your totally flawed migration and social policies. I'm asking you: How will you prevent the abuse of social protection rights in the Republic of Slovenia? What will you do to improve the miserable situation of the beneficiaries of invalidity pensions, rural pensions and other deprived groups of citizens, since the benefits, often few more than 200 euros, do not in any way allow them to live a decent life? Compared to the lowest social assistance rate of almost EUR 400, they really feel like someone is making fun of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u248	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. To begin with, the conditions of foreigners for work and residence in the Republic of Slovenia are governed by the Aliens Act, which falls within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, so that I cannot comment on the first part of your question. As for social transfers, I answer as follows. The legislation on receiving social security benefits is properly regulated. As regards monetary social assistance, I explain that the law provides that a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who has a registered permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia and a foreigner who has a residence permit is entitled to the right of financial social assistance. This means – which must reside continuously in the Republic of Slovenia for 5 years and, of course, have a registered permanent residence if without its guilt there is not sufficient means of subsistence. One of the conditions for obtaining monetary social assistance is therefore the application of a permanent residence, which is the address in the Republic of Slovenia where the individual resides, and this address is the centre of his or her life interests, which is assessed on the basis of his or her family, partner, working, economic, social and other relationships, which show that there are close and lasting connections between the individual and the address where he lives. I would warn that a foreigner can only apply for permanent residence in Slovenia when it shows that it is legally permanent in the Republic of Slovenia for 5 years. Permanent residence is thus a prerequisite for the eligibility of monetary social assistance, which means that financial social assistance can only be obtained after five years in the Republic of Slovenia. This means that a foreigner who has a residence permit and has only a registered temporary residence does not have the right to financial social assistance. The Constitution grants citizens the right to social security in the first paragraph of Article 50 under the conditions laid down by the law. According to the Constitutional Court, the social state is obliged, on the basis of this right, to provide adequate assistance to an individual at risk. It is about providing a so-called minimum of living for a person who is in social or economic distress and needs help. The Ministry considers that the conditions for the recognition of monetary social assistance for foreigners are adequately regulated and that the unequal treatment of foreigners who have a residence permit and a registered permanent residence would be contrary to the constitutional right to equality before the law, Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, under which the same factual situation must be treated in accordance with the principle of equality before the law. As regards the child allowance in the work relating to the child allowance of foreigners who are employed in the Republic of Slovenia and, as soon as their families arrive, I explain that the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds in Article 22 provides that the right to a child allowance shall be conferred on one of the parents or the other person for a child with a registered residence in the Republic of Slovenia until the age of 18 if he fulfils the prescribed conditions under the law. However, the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits provides in Article 73 that one of the parents or other person for a child with a registered residence in the Republic of Slovenia who actually lives in the Republic of Slovenia has the right to a child allowance until the age of 18. If these conditions are met, there is no reason not to receive the child supplement. I may say that it is easier to present statistics that out of all the social transfers granted in the Republic of Slovenia, when we talk about the child allowance, the financial social assistance, the protective allowance, a total of 413 thousand 89 social transfers, foreigners receive 30 000 and 7% of all social transfers. About the last part of the pension issue. With regard to measures to improve the social situation of pension beneficiaries, I explain that the rights under this scheme are linked to pre-insurance and to the amount of contributions that individuals have paid to the system themselves during their active period. I myself have been aware of the need to ensure greater social security and greater proportionality between the remuneration of pension beneficiaries and the beneficiaries of social security benefits; but the same is true for all beneficiaries of insurance rights and not in part only for some of them. As you probably know, the Ministry has already prepared a starting point for amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which already have intensive coordination with the social partners, which also address the issue of the corresponding amount of pension and disability benefits, and thus pursue the objectives of ensuring higher social security for pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, social policy is flawed. Tell me, who in this country will work for 600 euros if he gets 400 euros a week? A single-parent family with two children in which a parent is unemployed is entitled to a thousand EUR 115 of monetary social assistance, child support, free kindergarten and a host of other benefits. If parents and two children go to work and work for a minimum wage, they will get 200 euros more a month at the expense of the poor than if they were at home, they would be unemployed and would receive financial social assistance. Our country obviously reports: Do not work because it is not worth it. Our country supports the week. Social policy is exploited by immigrants who bring their family with them. Immigrants are willing to work for a smaller salary because their family receives financial social support anyway. This means that, as a result of such a policy, we have a cheaper workforce on the market, which means that our citizens have lower wages. On the one hand, left-wing people are yelling and shouting for workers; on the other hand, you are allowing social policy and high financial support, which is at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers, and generously and without control, you are giving this social support. And with this you do harm to our fellow citizens. Therefore, once again, our social policy is flawed. A healthy person needs work, not financial social assistance. All words are superfluous as long as someone with seven orthopedic operations, disabled, receives 256 euros in disability pension; someone who is healthy and able to work will receive 400 euros of social assistance every month.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u252	Thank you so much for the update. As far as our social policy is concerned, I would like to say the following. I myself believe that the amount of financial social assistance is 392.75 euros for what is needed; and I agree with you, and everyone else must seek their own social security in the labour market. That is why we are also putting in place an intensive pilot project for the integration of social work centres and employment institutions. Previously, the long-term unemployed were invited once every four months, now being invited by both advisors, the Centre for Social Work and the Employment Service working together. It is invited once every 14 days with the aim of empowering this person or as soon as possible; or through active employment policy measures, empowering him as soon as possible and returning him to the labour market in order to find his own social security. I believe that Slovenia is a social state. We will always have a percentage of citizens who cannot work for health reasons. We must take care of them as a society, and everyone else must ensure their social security in the labour market; I agree with you. As far as minimum wage is concerned. My opinion is that cash social assistance isn't too high, it's too low on minimum wages. If we look at a typical family school example: two parents on a minimum wage, one child in kindergarten and one in primary school, they receive a social transfer of €540. They often ask me what my opinion is and what the minimum wage should be. My answer has always been, since I've been a minister, the same: someone who works full-time doesn't need social transfers to spend the month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a procedural proposal? Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u254	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this subject be discussed at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Luka Mesec will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec, who is absent. I suggest you identify yourself if you wish to receive an oral response at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u256	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! As announced, I will ask the Minister of Agriculture a question regarding the shipping of animals. On Luke Koper's website, I noticed that today, at 2 p.m., the 8A dock began loading to the ship of Norway. The type of cargo, as we understand from the state of the links, was – live animals plus hay. Quantity announced — thousand. The column on the right says it doesn't mean a thousand animals, it's a thousand tons. When they take pigs, sheep, or cattle to overseas, they are evidently no longer counted on their heads, but like fish, only after tons. So today, at 2 p.m. in Luka Koper, these thousands of tons of animals are joined by millions of other animals around the world who are put on hell’s ocean voyages every year for several weeks. Australian activists have documented the situation on these ships. One of the videos you can see on my Facebook page, I posted it yesterday. I have to admit, this is one of the most barbaric things I've ever seen in my life. Animals are placed in poorly lit huge rooms, but there are so many of them that they can barely move. The sheep are pressed like chickens in the soil. Many cannot reach water or food. They are exposed to extreme conditions: high temperatures, lack of oxygen, choking. Many of them are damaged because of food shortages, and all of them are dirty because they spend weeks literally in their own effluents. As a result of inhumane conditions, many animals die on this overseas route to the slaughterhouse. Their bodies, like the excrements, are thrown into the sea. That's probably why they're only counted in tons. In the port, it is easier to write off 25 tonnes than in the record to say that 500 sheep died in their own waste because of the unbearable situation. I therefore ask the Minister a simple question: When are we going to ban this barbarism? The government, which has a coalition contract that states that it is committed to animal welfare, should not have afforded it. I request an oral response at the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u257	Thank you very much. We'll put the next session on the agenda. We came up with the last oral question. Ambassador Boštjan Koražija will raise an oral question to the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc, who is absent. I also ask you for a clarification on written or oral response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u258	Your Honor, thank you for your word. I'd like an oral answer to my question. For years, the strategy for spatial development of the Republic of Slovenia has been in preparation until 2050. Space is one of the key elements for the long-term development of Slovenia, as it combines many potentials: for development breakthroughs, for improving the well-being and quality of life of the population and for preserving national heritage. According to me, the strategy has been based on at least three different assumptions or models. Option A: a centralised model of Slovenia, which has been skillfully named as a model of concentrated polycentric spatial development. Option B: polycentric model, named as a model of deconcentrated polycentric spatial development with a larger number of centres. However, Option C, which is currently to be worked on, retains a polycentric distribution with some corrections. The main framework of models is intended to be centres of different international, national and regional importance, based on criteria such as accessibility, population numbers, functional equipment, jobs, economic and tourist importance. The parishioners of Lower Podravje insist on the status of the city of Ptuj in these various variants. If Ptuj was completely overlooked in the first part, but nothing was better in the second and third parts, the status of the regional centre should be assigned to him, and the status of some people with Maribor. By this option Ptuj would have a status of international importance, but it is a legitimate fear that some people do not bring an equal position to both cities, but in this case Maribor will be dominant. The bird will slowly become just a sleeping village. In doing so, I should point out that the city of Ptuj and the Municipality of Ptuj is the only municipality of the city which has no national importance in all the proposals so far and also in the last proposal. Ptuj is the oldest city in Slovenia; not Ljubljana. We can also understand this from the point of view of the city in various written documents and, as such, is entitled to the status – the centre of national importance; and not only regional. I therefore ask the Minister: What is the current status of the document, the strategy for spatial development of the Republic of Slovenia by 2050, and what is the basis for its emphasis? What are the numbers and names of the planned centres of national importance and the criteria for their determination? What is the status of Ptuj within the current strategy? To what extent were the proposals and comments of the shareholders from the field taken into account, in particular in the area of Lower Plum? The municipality and colleagues of the Lower Podravje mayors have repeatedly addressed problematic points, which despite different promises were included in the revised version very rounded or fell out. As Minister responsible for the preparation of the strategy, I ask you to make a commitment that the city of Ptuj in the spatial development strategy by 2050 will have the status of a separate centre of national importance and that it will be connected to some people with the nearby Maribor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-05-20-SDZ8-Redna-08.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Your request will also be included in the next meeting. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, 21 May 2019, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am adjourning the 8th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. (The sitting was suspended 20. May 2019 AT 17.58.)
