ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, distinguished ministers and ministers, ladies and gentlemen, welcome! I begin the 6th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Luka Mesec, Igor Zorčič from 15:00 on, Eva Irgl, Jožef Horvat, Anja Bah Žibert, Susana Lepi Šimenko, Dušan Šiško from 17:00 on and Mateja Udovč from 17:00 on. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Minister-General and the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, the President of the Government to extend the agenda and representatives of the Government to all agenda items. We are moving on to the agenda for the 6th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday, 18 March 2019, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the items from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda of the 6th session be extended by a point of 9a, with a list of candidates for the Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. You received an extension proposal on Wednesday 20 March 2019. Would you like to speak to the Prime Minister, Mr. Marjan Sarec, as a candidate for the list? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Would any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would any of the Members like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. That's what we're going to do. Members and Members, please check the voting devices. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. 79 Members and Members were present and 79 voted in favour. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The meeting will be held on Wednesday, 27 March 2019, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Now, honourable Members, we are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as referred to. We're voting. 78 Members and Members were present and 78 voted in favour. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 6th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written applications for 39 questions from the Member States. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the arrangements of the leaders of the groups of Members of the Council of 13 November 2018. The first three questions will be answered by the President of the Government, members of the opposition, members of the left-wing group and members of the ruling coalition. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member within 2 minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. With regard to this point, it has been justified today: Mr Marjan Sarec, President of the Government, in his capacity as Minister of Health, from 13:00 to 3 p.m., or since the completion of the first five oral questions addressed to the President of the Government, Dr Jernej Pikalo, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, until 3 p.m., Mr Jure Leben, Minister of the Environment and Space for Current Affairs, and Mr Peter Jožef Česnik, Minister responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. Mr Marjan Sarec will answer the first five questions. Mrs Ludmila Novak will first ask him the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Dear mothers and grandmothers, first of all, congratulations on our holiday. Since you're the Prime Minister at best, you can only be a few years, and when we become a mother, all our lives, it's a privilege for me today, so honest congratulations. Let us be glad that we have this mission, and we thank our husbands, men, for making us mothers. Now it's my question of a letter, which is quite simple. Why did you, Mr President of the Government, decide and refuse a speech in the European Parliament? My purpose here today is not to punish you again because I have already deceived you. Other MEPs, as well as the Slovenian public, have also insulted you, but I would simply like to know why. I believe that such a speech in the European Parliament at the time we are at the turning point of the European Union is extremely important. We know that two years ago the European Commission published a White Paper with five options on the future of the European Union. There has now been a public debate on what kind of European Union we want. The various discussions and the future presidents in the European Parliament are part of this European debate. Therefore, I think it is simply a shame and a missed opportunity that you, as Prime Minister of the Government, did not use this option and presented a vision of what Slovenia has, what wishes. It is not important here how many votes Slovenia has in the European Parliament because it is not decided, but whether we have any suggestions, a vision of what we want, whether we are inclined to the common European future or not. We could've opened enough of this. Since the summit of the European Union will be in Sibiu in two months, as you know, and the presidents will discuss the outcome of this two-year public debate, then I am interested in what you will represent there, because I have no feeling that there is a public debate in Slovenia about what we really want. Therefore, I would be happy to listen and listen to your reasons, and again, I would like to stress that it is a shame that you have not used these good opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u3	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Novak, for that question. Of course, I believe it's as well-intentioned as I believe the earth is flat, but let's leave it. True, I've been following these discussions all week. You're saying that I was bewitched by the public. I was not deceived by the public, I was punished by the most existing MEPs from Slovenia and by the candidates, where you belong. First of all, I am interested in how to take seriously the European Members, who are punishing me from Slovenia, on the fact that we have one MP who, five years ago, at the FDV meeting, said it was healthy to have only two seats, today is running for third. We have a Member who believed five years ago, who doesn't believe today, and he quickly joined the other party just to be elected. We have some European Members who have not missed the opportunity to remain silent, but have sued Slovenia before the world and European public when it was only an opportunity to do so. We have a European Member, who also wishes for a third term of office by letters to the public and by washing his own party's laundry. In short, we have quite a few European Members, whom I cannot really trust right now in their well-intentionedness, which is why I find it difficult to accept such criticism. As far as the performance is concerned, this was offered to Mr. Cerar in front of me. Then, in October, we expressed our willingness to perform. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, Mr. Mahnic, wait a minute. It was offered to Mr Cerar, and when Mr Cerar was no longer Prime Minister of the Government, we said that we would attend, until now there was no reply from Mr Tajani's office. I am pleased, however, that all Slovenian MEPs and candidates for European Members have been well connected in the reading of Mr Tajani, if he has sent an invitation, but Mr Sarec should go. I think I told Mr Tajani very well on Thursday on the European Council that his statement was a knife to the heart. And what else did he say? That Mussolini was a good statesman until he went to war. But long before the war he had suppressed the coastal Slovenes, long before the war he had gone to Ethiopia and slaughtered there. If Mr Tajani says so, then I'm not ashamed if I've turned down such an invitation, I'm sorry. And the fact that it's a missed opportunity now, I'm just wondering what you've been doing for five years there if Slovenia hasn't heard from you and you've only been waiting for me. I was a clown to you a few months ago. You know, I'm not taking this for granted. It's just like starting some pre-election campaign that's already in progress. But believe me, on the European Councils, we are very good at talking about the future, knowing what the problems are and, above all, we will not solve them if we have been talking about brexit for two years and more. The European Union has many problems, and they will have to be solved, but I doubt that we will be able to resolve them by addressing the European Member of Parliament two months before the European elections. “The last but not the least”, Mrs Ljudmila, was that on March 12 my Slovak colleague spoke – Parliament was empty! And even when a Maltese colleague spoke, there were, I don't know, 30 Members or how many. If only 30 Members were to sit in this esteemed assembly, this would be well known. However, how many MEPs are there in the European Parliament has been empty. So much for how many European Members are interested in the address of one of my colleagues or at least me. That's why it's no different than mere conjecture, raising political points on my account. I'm glad you all joined together against me, for once. I hope that those who will be elected to the European Parliament in the next term will be able to be so united, even when it comes to Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for your answer. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u6	Look, Mr President, what you just said is simply embarrassing. But I have to be a little sharp right now. Because there you are not only talking to the European Members, whom you have put on average here, but you are speaking to the European public. There are also several Members in our Parliament, but it is a television broadcast, the media are reporting, this is what is being talked about. Why is this a missed opportunity? You could say these things that you just said here in public. You know how to look, you know how to joke, you know what to add, we could do it there, and you could tell Mr Tajani something between your peers or a lot of people who don't know European history. There was an opportunity. It is not about what the European Members think, nor is it about the end of the mandate, it is about a two-year debate as to what the vision of the European Union is and how we imagine it. And there you could add a lot of things, and you missed that opportunity. That is why it seems inappropriate for you to express yourself in this way about Slovenian MEPs. I didn't communicate with anyone before I made the statements, but I simply wondered why our Prime Minister did it and why it wasn't good. We want to make friends in Europe, whether it's so casual or I don't know what to say to European institutions. The European institutions are a common denominator of all Member States. Our Members sit there, our Commissioner sits there, our officials sit there, and now we spit on it instead of telling us what we want to improve.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u7	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u8	Dear Member! I'd be crying over what you just said, what a national disgrace it is, how I missed the opportunity. You missed the opportunity to be in the government — then what? If this is such a missed opportunity, it'll show time. But as for speaking in pre-election time and now all that has been said, no one will convince me how well-intentioned you are and how well-intentioned you are. Finally, the disrespect of the European institutions towards Slovenia was also expressed. Did the European Commission say in its current mandate in the arbitration for Croatia that this is a lack of respect for the rule of law? She didn't say. And there was something else in this term. That is why I will be happy to take every opportunity in the future, but in the new European Parliament reference. By no means will I go to an empty Parliament to explain to the thirties, and if possible any of Slovenia will be in there, so that you will then make fun of your colleagues here on the right, how no one listens to me and how no one in Slovenia respects me in the world and so on. In short, both things can be seen on both sides. However, as far as my harsh speech to the Slovenian MEPs is concerned – yes, I have shown that I am also able to observe and that I have my own opinion on Slovenian politics and that I can also say some picoro if I want to. I will avoid this as much as possible in the future, because it is not my way, but I have shown, as I have felt in all of what you have said, that it is a national disgrace, that it is the end of the world, that it is not the only thing that should be, because I have not talked about the European Parliament, I have just told you what my observation of this Slovenian policy and of the Slovenian MEPs is. Of course, I wish everyone the best in these European elections, and I want something to really move in the next European Parliament call, and that these debates remain not only at the level of debate what the European Union needs, but that something should really move, otherwise there will be another exit, which is certainly not good, but not because the departure of Great Britain will cause a lot of problems. So I know it's your last word and you'll have it now, but whatever you say, I'm calm, I know it's a pre-election campaign, and I accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u9	Thank you for your position, Mr. President of the Government. Madam Members, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u10	Of course, I will propose a debate in Parliament on this subject. Why? Because it seems important to me that we Members also discuss what our vision of the future of the European Union is, whether the elections are two months or six months from now or not. In 2021 Slovenia will chair the European Union. Do we even know what we want or do we know what our priorities are and why we should not open a public debate on this? There is room here in Parliament for us to talk about this. Look, you too will have European elections, and your party will run, and it is during the European elections that when Parliament is replaced, when the European Commission is replaced, that the public's eyes are most open to the European institutions. We're at a turning point. If there are no more brexits, you too can help by telling us what solutions we have for the future. That we will not just spit because we are members of the European Union, because we have made our own decision, through the European institutions, instead of looking at where are the advantages, what we have achieved, what is the main objective and purpose of this cooperation. That's what we're missing. Of course you're talking about elections. Of course, I'm a candidate, but all the clients are candidates, and that doesn't mean anything. But I was a European Member, and I know exactly what the talks are like, what they'll think of us. And you're saying that the European Commission did not support it. She has repeatedly stated that she wants to respect the law. But I've already said that we gain ourselves in this way and with such an enemy relationship or with our enemies if we act ignorantly. And that's not right. That's why I suggest, despite the fact that you didn't speak there, because you said earlier that you were a little afraid that you were afraid of what others would say. I believe because the Slovenians are very critical of theirs first, but you could prove yourself there, and you missed that opportunity too. But there's always criticism. If we do so, some will be critical if we decide to do so, they will be critical. But you could shine, because you know, the whole of Europe could smile at you. I therefore propose that when we vote on the questions sent to open the debate in the National Assembly on this subject, what is our vision on the future of the European Union and what our priorities are during the Presidency? It'll only help the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u11	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Mr Dusan Shisko has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Krško polje – an area of intensive farming, and at the same time under its surface is the largest aquifer in the municipality of Krško. Water resources in the Krka Field, Drnovo and Brega are secured by a 1985 decree, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should adopt new regulations on the protection of water resources which would allow inspection services more powers. The decrees do not protect water resources effectively enough and the water system managers have their hands tied several times and cannot act again against violators. Although the State is present for the preparation of the State Water Protection Regulation, the Municipality of Krško has prepared professional bases for the preparation of the regulation and forwarded them to the competent institutions. Since a hydraulic improvement project has also been implemented by European funds in 2013-2015, which has enabled the connection of the water system to the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk, the solution to this problem is all the more necessary. In accordance with the provisions of the Water Act, the State is responsible for the preparation and issuance of the Water Protection Area Regulations for the aquatic body of the aquifer. As early as 2015, the Municipality of Krško provided the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with professional bases for all active water resources as a basis for the preparation of the state regulation. Until the adoption of the regulation, and so far, I am interested in: Who's responsible for this delay? At what stage is preparation or when will the regulation finally be adopted?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u14	Thank you for asking. As you have already established, the professional basis is one of the conditions for the adoption of this Regulation. In the area of Krko Municipality, professional grounds for water resources insurance were already being prepared – they were prepared by Geosi Institute for Earthlings, d.o.o., and Georaz – which were commissioned by Krško Municipality. In 2015, the municipality forwarded them to the Ministry of Environment and Space in order to prepare a proposal for a regulation on the protection of water resources. Following a review of the Ministry’s professional services, it was found that they were not complete and that they needed to be complemented. It's a Slovenian classic. The comments were made by the experts and the municipality in 2016 and the producers responded in February 2017. Following the re-checking of the professional bases produced in 2017 and 2018, the Ministry of Environment and Space concluded that the professional bases were not prepared in accordance with the applicable legislation and did not provide a basis for the preparation of the draft Water Resources Insurance Regulation. It was thus necessary to prepare new professional bases for the coverage of Brega and Drnov, which the ILO also called for by letter from July 2018, and also for the definition of a list of water licences to which the municipality had not yet been designated. In December 2018, representatives of the Ministry and the municipality held a meeting aimed at reaching a common agreement on the most appropriate solution to complement or prepare the professional basis, due to the impact of the Hydroelectric Brežica on these two water sources. It was agreed that the municipality should also check the situation in the additional wells in the Brega area from the point of view of the acquisition of the water permit. The Ministry of Environment and Space has taken a decision in this mandate to increase the use of resources for the production of professional bases, as it has been found that there have been congestions in the past on this segment. For this water source, the Ministry will therefore itself order new professional bases. Currently, the Ministry has ordered a higher number of professional bases for the manufacturer, which means that the production time of only these has subsequently increased. It is about all activities and will also inform only the congregation in the future ministry. I expect that, of course, the ministry will arrange this in the shortest possible time, in short, things are running and I believe that we will also come to a solution in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Member, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u16	Thanks for the answer. I'm not most impressed with what you've said, but I hope something's going to work out. The most pressing problem is fertilisation with natural nitrogen fertilisers, which is manure, which farmers watered on agricultural areas in water protection areas. This manure is converted into nitrate, which is subsequently found in groundwater and can endanger a particular population. In 2016 we entered into the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia the right of citizens to drinking water. As in many other cases, there is a gap between theory and practice. We talk and write one thing down, and we do the other thing, or, rather, we don't work. I think it's a great shame that we don't take advantage of such natural resources because of slow red tape. I would add, however, that ministers and secretaries of state are being replaced because of the negligence of other employees, who have been sitting at tables for more than 20 years, and nothing will happen to them. In the opinion of the Slovenian national parties, this should be amended as soon as possible so that those workers at lower levels can also respond. I believe that it is not always the ministers and secretaries of state who are to be replaced. What do you say to that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I agree with you most deeply. They are not always as guilty as you said, only ministers, secretary of state or anyone else, but there are many people who have been there since 1990, as in the case of one ministry. However, there is an opportunity in this assembly to amend legislation. If labour legislation or legislation on public administration and other legislation were adopted differently, then it could also happen that not everyone had an evaluation 5 and that it would really be judged by how much someone did or did not do. We have had such and different cases both in our previous job and today. It will certainly be necessary to consider amending such legislation in the future, as it is not stimulating to those who work hard. If you're paid the same, but not the same, then there can't be any special results. As for over-fertilization, as you mentioned in terms of water protection, I also agree with you. Today this is absolutely happening and I think that the Ministry of the Environment, or already the outgoing minister, and the new Minister, if of course confirmed, Mr Zajc, are very well aware of this. I think that as much as has been done in environmental protection in this short period of time, and as long as it will be in the future, if the government will not fall because of my failure to perform in Strasbourg, then I believe that there is a different attitude towards the environment ahead of us. Your question has been very important, and I welcome it, and I believe that through joint communication you will have an insight into the matter at hand so that you can monitor what is happening, and I really believe that officials will also do their job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. You have the word Mr. Daniel Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! I will ask the Prime Minister about the reform of the pension system. Minister Mag. Ksenija Klampfer presented the following major changes in pension legislation: a rise of only 40 years of working age for men from the current 57.25% to 63% and for women from 60.25% to 63%. The implementation of the measure is foreseen for January 2020. The second amendment, the Ministry proposes a gradual increase in the age-retirement threshold from the current 65 to 67 years, with the condition for retirement still 40 years of work, regardless of age. And the third amendment, pensioners with age-retirement conditions will be able to work and receive the whole pension at the same time, under certain conditions and gradually. Between 1999 and 2013, when PIZ-1 was in force, a dose percentage multiplied by an valorisation factor was established. Although the dose percentage was then set at a higher rate than the current net dose percentage, the rates of pensions due to the multiplication of the valorisation coefficient decreased by about 0.5 % each year or would continue to decrease due to the equation thus established. The valorisation factor was impossible to predict in advance, since each year it was determined by the Minister responsible for the work on the basis of the calculation. Thus, the predictability of the rate of pensions for new pensioners was significantly reduced or impossible to predict for more than a year in advance. At a net dose rate determined by the ZPIZ-2, which was dependent on years of work for men and women according to a specific table, the real value of the pension dose was maintained, since it was no longer dependent on the valorisation coefficient. The net dose percentage introduced in PIZ-2 thus stopped the drop at the rate of pensions. In the Coalition Treaty, you have committed to the fact that the increase in the dose percentage promised for January 2020 will be effective as of January 2019, as stated in the Coalition Treaty. In fact, you suspended the pension raise by this beneficiary for one year. Regardless of the gradual increase in the dose rate, those who have already retired will be in a worse position than those who will retire after a new dose percentage. That's why I'm asking you: Will the percentage increase also for those who have already retired at the same working age? Why will the dose percentage not increase proportionally to all beneficiaries, regardless of working time? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I must continue to say that this is not a pension reform that will be sustainable in the long term. These are the amendments to the law right now. The reform will have to be prepared in the future. As far as your question is concerned on the pension issue. Certainly, the debate that took place on the Economic and Social Council last week was a step in the right direction. I believe that we will only be able to achieve all these measures by agreeing on the economic and social world and we will not be able to afford any changes without a wider dialogue, or we will end badly. These are mainly proposals that will, on the one hand, pursue the extension of work activities and, on the other hand, improve the social situation of all beneficiaries of pension and disability benefits. However, particular attention will be paid to increasing the social security of the most vulnerable groups under the pension system. Our common denominator must be that the system must be implemented in an integrated and not merely partial manner, and the Minister has also presented not only one solution, but quite a few. And so did you. A rise in the rate and regulation of the dual pensioner status and a set of other measures in the labour market, all these measures are primarily aimed at prolonging the work activity, as our main problem is, as I said last time, that we are entering the labour market too late and we are leaving it too soon. That's why we have some problems. In addition, a month ago at the last session, I was saying that the demographic picture is rapidly getting worse. Studies have been made, even there by 2070, or it will be then or not, we are having a hard time judging today, but the fact is that there will be more and more pensioners. We did not raise the dose percentage this year because it was impossible to do so. This is not going so fast, so we moved it back to 2020. But there are always changes that are meant to be made when we look at it in the future. At any rate, it is not necessary for people to retire quickly so that there is now some panic over this increase of 67 years. This will only increase for those who are under 40 years of age. As far as pension changes as I said are concerned, this is not a major reform, these are the amendments to the law. A major reform will have to be planned in the future. So it's also a misapplication of that term. We are aware that this is no reform. Reform is something else, but at this time, these amendments to the legislation are appropriate. In the future, more changes will be made in view of the demographic picture, in view of the increasingly pressing problem, thinking about what if the economic picture changes and there is also a need to find a way for those pensioners who work alongside the pension when the situation does not allow it, to break the working relationship so that young people will not be burdened when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Messenger, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u24	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. He did a pretty good job of avoiding the answer to my particular question. He talked about all the measures within the pension system. With regard to reform, this is a dictatorship that is used in the media and which has been channelled by the government and the ministry. The talk was about pension reform, not just measures. My specific question, however, touched mainly on the dose percentage, this is a very important detail within pension measures mainly because, in some way, we have not received a clear answer so far, or whether this percentage in force will also apply to those already in this pension system. The fact is, a pension is not a privilege, but it is a well-deserved income that people have acquired in the past. This is why it is so much more important that when this is discussed, it is also clearly defined up to this dose percentage. Otherwise, those already in the system will be further harmed. However, the question was also raised as to why even in the case of those who are given a reduced dose, this new dose ratio, of course, is not taken into account, with those who are less likely to contribute to the number of missing years. But the key is how the dose percentage will be taken into account. This was my specific question and I would like to ask you to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u26	Thank you very much. As I said, all the changes that will happen, which will eventually be implemented, must go through social dialogue first. The first meeting was last week. We can say that the Economic and Social Council is also a kind of negotiating body where different segments present their views. Only when determined or crystallized, what measures will we be able to carry out will we be able to speak more specifically. However, as long as none of the options are confirmed in the Economic and Social Council, it is difficult for us to say just that, because social dialogue is crucial in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u28	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the reply of the President of the Government be discussed. I think that this is an important topic that will bind us many times in the future, especially because the signed coalition contract already envisioned this measure of a percentage of the rate for January 2019, following these new signatures and new commitments after the summit of the coalition, a commitment was made to do so as of January 2020. This time will come very quickly, and I think that it is also necessary to get to know or really get specific answers about such an important fact within pension changes that affect all citizens. I think that the debate on this subject could also be useful for the President of the Government, who could also, on the basis of a broader debate, also make moves that would suit or that would satisfy the majority of citizens. After all, it is Parliament that represents all the voters in this country. I therefore propose that this answer – because there was no concrete response from the President of the Government – be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr Member, for the procedural proposal. We will vote on it tomorrow in the framework of the vote. You have the floor, Mr. Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am turning to the President of the Government because pensions for a large part of pensioners are too low and the cost of home care is too high. If I start with my pension. This year, steps have been taken in the right direction to raise pensions, but unfortunately not brave enough to eliminate unfair savings in pensions during the crisis. Thus, the picture of the poverty of the pensioners in our country is quite terrible. Poor is every sixth pensioner over 60 years old, poor is every fifth pensioner over 75 years old, and these people often live in completely inappropriate apartments where their roofs are blocked, their floors are pierced, their winter wind is breaking through their windows, their frames and so on. In particular, elderly single women are affected by the poverty of pensioners. The lowest pension in this country is EUR 218. We insist in Levica that all pensions must reach at least the short-term cost of living, €442. However, in the cooperation agreement between Levica and the coalition, we managed to get at least a provision to raise the lowest full-time pension from EUR 500 to EUR 613. At the government starting point of the pension reform, this was not to be observed, so I ask you, Mr. Sarec: When will the lowest full-time pension be at least €613 as agreed? Further, since I assume that in your answer you will probably go in the direction of financial sustainability, I also ask you: When will the employers' contribution rate rise? We agreed this would happen this year. Retirement is not the only measure of the material position of pensioners. Even such a high pension will do you no good if it is bitten off by the full cost of household care. Over the past 20 years, the network of homes of the elderly has privatized to us and we can look at the consequences. If we start with the most basic statistics, the average supply price for the concessionaire, for the private person, compared to the average price in the public house, is up by 130 euros. If we take the cheapest public home and the most expensive concessional home, the basic supply or cost of basic supply is already €478. This is almost as much as the minimum guaranteed full-time pension in this country. For all groups of elderly people, especially those with pensions of less than 600 euros, and in this country there are as many as 240 000, the gap between the public home and the concessionaire is therefore vital. That's why I'm asking you: Or when and when will you simplify home supply prices? Or when and when will you start an investment program in new public homes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u32	Thank you, Mr. Kordish. Given your behaviour, which is different, where you're a little bit away from your client's mold and parliamentary democracy in general, I'll also be a little bit of a babalinist, and I'll ask you when you'll otherwise communicate on social networks. Can you guarantee me when you'll be writing different writings than you wrote a month ago or how much more about the blanked account? That was a little inappropriate and we felt a little bit of a coalition, I can tell you, I'm not going to use the term insulted, but we were having a little bit of a hard time with our partners communicating this way on social networks. So let me not answer this question this time, but I will send it to you in writing, if you agree, because you, too, in writing what you write, or in public, let me be allowed to do so. No offense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Member, you now have the opportunity to complete your question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. President, anyone who has opened a cooperation agreement between the Left and the Coalition will find it very difficult to deny that we have negotiated well. A little bit with the carrot, a little bit with the stick. And this is something that we can understand under the bleached account, but of course this is not something that would be so very much a matter of political prestige and our own benefits, but it is a matter of action in favour of the working class. Today, I am referring to you to the question of measures that are for the benefit of pensioners. Pensioners have been deprived of coordination in times of crisis by various intervention laws, as should be the case. The result is that I can read in the newspapers the headlines of an elderly single woman staying in a house with a broken chimney, another winter looking for shelter in libraries and shops to stay warm. Poverty in this society. Despite the nominal rise from the crisis, he still insists. It is particularly attractive in the area of pensioners. That is why, Mr Šarec, I have addressed the question to you and I insist on this question and I think that you can give oral at least the basic answers to this meeting. When can we expect the lowest full-time pension in this country to be EUR 613? When can we expect the rate of contribution for employers for the pension fund to rise? Of course, higher pensions must be financed and financed in a socially fair manner. And on the other hand, home care itself: When can we expect home prices to be uniform at national level, because at this point privates, concessionaires take advantage of the fact that at least 8,000 beds in homes are too small and are properly priced? And then, a little deeper in the area of home: When can we expect investment programmes that will revive the construction of public homes and end this 20-year-long [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u36	Read the agreement. It's all there.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u37	You've received an answer. You've raised your hand, I assume it's a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u38	I am making a procedural proposal for the National Assembly to hold a debate on the response of the Prime Minister, perhaps more specifically on the failure of the Prime Minister. Poverty in our society, a rich society is a disgrace. While capital owners pay off their fabulous profits, a large part of our citizens and citizens live below the level of decent living. And when I say that poverty is a disgrace, it is not a disgrace to the one who lives in poverty, it is a disgrace to the authority that allows for such inequality in society. In particular, when we talk about the poverty of the elderly, about the poverty of pensioners who have contributed 40 years or more of work to this society, they do not get 500 or 600 euros back. Moreover, with the privatisation strategy of care in the homes of older citizens, a domestic care mechanism has been set up, not based on solidarity, but based on private earnings. And if anything, this is the fundamental thing in which the National Assembly should talk about eliminating the injustices that have struck pensioners in crisis saving and starting with this crowd of pensioners. There are 240 thousand who live with less than 600 euros to raise from poverty because they deserve more and deserve better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr. Franz Jurša, your word in this circle is almost to the last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! Demographic trends and issues of public financial sustainability of the pension system on the one hand and low pensions on the other are indicators that suggest that we must respond in an appropriate and appropriate manner as a responsible society. The system needs concrete measures. If this does not happen, Slovenian society will have major problems. We already have half of all pensioners who receive pensions below the poverty line. Mr President, after six months of our government's operation, all I know is that a working group is to be formed that has approached the design of professional foundations. Professional grounds have already been made, there are several different proposals for laws. In this area, we also have two laws that dictate the establishment of a demographic fund. This is the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and the Slovenian State Holding Act. The fact is that we need to provide an alternative source for future pension payments. Almost all countries have established such funds. They shall properly fill the fund with the means for a decent future for their future pensioners. And we've been acting like we haven't done anything in years. At the general coalition summit two weeks ago in Brdo pri Kranj, several measures were presented to implement the commitments under the coalition agreement to improve the situation of pensioners. Commendable or very commendable. We will have some proposals to complete through the debate, but this is ahead of us. Unfortunately, the demographic reserve fund was not mentioned among these measures. We have heard nothing of it, despite the fact that it is enshrined in the coalition agreement as well as in the preamble signed by the presidents of the coalition parties with the treaty opposition. Mr President, I am interested in your view of the demographic fund or your position: How should we make sure that our pensioners are not more poor in the future than they are able to afford at least twice as many showers per month, more than three diapers per day, and that they will be able to afford some coffee at the home of elderly pensioners in Slovenia, not on the other side of the southern border, where the home is significantly cheaper than in Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Jurša, for this question. There is a lot to be said about population ageing, about long-term care and about these social issues, and so I also see your question that we have been talking about. Even when we were forming a government, I remember talking a lot about the demographic fund. I think it's been said about him for 15 years, maybe more. At my previous meeting, I presented a projection of the consequences of our society's ageing. Thus, by 1970, the number of people retired was expected to increase by 20% and ageing expenditure increased from 22% to 28% of GDP. Of course, I would not repeat one and the same thing we have already said many times, but I must say that the demographic reserve fund does not mean the payment of higher pensions, but ensures a sustainable and stable payment of pensions from public funds, which reduces the pressure on state budget expenditure to change the demographic picture of the population. It is precisely because of these facts that the Minister of Finance has already established an internal project group at the Ministry of Finance, whose task is to prepare the necessary professional basis for the preparation of the law on the demographic reserve fund. However, it is essential to establish an internationally comparable demographic reserve fund based on the principles of independence, independence, security, dispersion, profitability and liquidity of portfolio investment management. This is crucial for the fulfilment of his mission, which, as I said, is to provide an additional stable source of funding. This stable resource will be provided with adequate additional fixed sources of funding and an appropriate period of accumulation of the Fund's funds. The establishment of this fund does not therefore affect the existing or future pension system and therefore the demographic fund cannot solve the problem of adjusting working time by prolonging life expectancy. This topic will be regulated by a system-wide pension law, where we have already begun a discussion on the starting points for amending legislation. The aim is to make such a demographic fund that would really ensure this sustainability and long-term stability, because this is the most crucial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u44	Everything I kind of knew, you said. I would like you to say in more detail, in the following words, when we will really take a concrete approach to this matter. I'm on my own in the past, I'll admit, I already participated in a group where Minister Marble and I discussed the matter. If there had not been a change of staff at the Ministry of Finance at that time, this story might have been brought much closer. You know, it's not about my generation and me, Mr President, it's more about your generation and you, so it would be very good for us to get things straight and do things. This is without prejudice to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for this year and next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u46	Thank you. That's what I'm talking about. It's about the future. It's about the long-term stability of the system. I also talked about looking there in the year 2070, even though it seems far away to us now, but this day will also come. In particular, the case is already being implemented because, as I said, a working group has been set up at the Ministry of Finance. I believe that if there is a serious will, we will also come to conclusions and proposals that will then be tabled as a bill. But I am well aware that this is not about your generation, it will have to be thought forward, and that is certainly true. But sometimes I wonder for myself how many years I'm going to enjoy my pension and if I'm going to do it, given the stressful nature of today's life. But I believe that if we seriously bite into this work, if the will, as I said, will not be drawn to our side – because we have the same case in the electoral system, we will also have to step together and find such a solution to be adopted, then dialogue in the economic and social world – all of this will have to be done in order to reach the demographic fund. However, there are two variants of how this demographic fund works. We're gonna have to say a few more words about that. However, I believe or hope that it will not be just words and that we will finally say that it will be 15 years or how many years we have taken a step towards this harmony and that we will have a future where to draw. Population is getting older, and this problem will never be smaller, and it will be bigger. And it's true will and purpose. For a detailed introduction to everything that is going on, I advise you to also regularly address the ministry, where they will always be happy to give you all the information so that there is no doubt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for today's answers. By doing so, honourable Members, honourable Members, Ministers and Ministers, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 5th meeting of the National Assembly. Mr Marjan Sarec, President of the Government in his capacity as Minister of Health, has been absent from this point on, so there will be no answers to Mrs Eva Irgle's questions, Mr Vojko Starović, Mrs Janja Slug, Mr Željk Cigler today. Following is the reply of the Minister for Environment and Space, who conducts ongoing business, Mr Juret Lebna and Minister for Infrastructure Mag. Alenke Bratušek on the question of Mr Boštjan Koražija regarding the unsustainable living conditions of residents in the area of Ormoška cesta in the Municipality of Ptuj and the construction of a ptujska obradnica. In doing so, I stress that the Minister for Environment and Space is absent. Madam Minister, you're available all the time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Of course, I'll only touch the part that belongs under my work circle. Let me start by saying that at the Ministry of Infrastructure we are aware of the problems facing the local population in the case of transit transport, so I can say that we are already looking for solutions that will be acceptable, on the one hand, for the local population as well as for the Slovenian automotive sector. It's not the only department in our country that has transit problems. So once again, we are looking for solutions, and I believe that I will soon be able to tell you concrete solutions, not only for this section, but for someone else. With regard to the other issues mentioned, however, it may be right to say that in the area of the Municipality of Ptuj there is an Ormoška cesta along three sections of the state roads which are under the responsibility of the Infrastructure Directorate. The data of the measured traffic loads at the number point on the main road G1-2 in the Ptuj area show for 2017 the average annual traffic of 14 thousand 20 vehicles, of which 982 were light cargo vehicles and a thousand 27 other freight vehicles. The Infrastructure Directorate shall monitor, in accordance with the regulations, environmental pressures in areas along state roads. In this context, it regularly monitors the noise load and conducts operational noise monitoring. The results of the last one carried out in 2013 on the basis of traffic loads show that several buildings with protected spaces are overloaded with noise throughout the entire area of all three sections of state roads, with a total length of approximately 6 kilometres. It is said that 230 buildings in which about 830 people live are overloaded. Two sections of regional roads are envisaged to produce a noise study with a proposal for anti-group measures. However, as regards the measurement of particulate pollution by the Ormo road, our Directorate does not carry out these measurements as it is not bound by the applicable regulations to implement them. Perhaps at the end of the year, when the birdfold is built, these people are burdened by the fact that the section of the newly planned road link Ptuj-Markowci is in the phase of putting the road route into space. On our side, I believe that we are doing everything we can on the municipal side as quickly as possible, but I would be very much prejudiced if I told you today when the construction could start. I will also repeat today that the bonds are one of the key priorities of our ministry during my term of office, because we are aware of the problems that have been faced on a daily basis, and I am not only dealing with these issues but also with civil initiatives, people and also with mayors and mayors.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u49	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Member, would you like a supplement?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u50	Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u51	No follow-up. Now, Madam Minister, there's a block of four questions ahead of you. The first question is Mr Dusan Šiška's question is related to the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u52	Here, at the outset, let me say that the accusations made by the Member that I have deceived the Slovenian public do not in any way hold. An interstate commission was carried out on 22 January this year. Nothing was agreed on by this interstate commission that would not be in accordance with the Interstate Treaty. It has been agreed that the technical or coordination group of lawyers and technical experts, on the one hand, will carry out their work to the end to find out how we can or cannot meet our common obligation, that is to build or find a common landfill for waste from the NEK or the Krka nuclear power plant. Of course, on this interstate commission, I told the Minister in particular and also the public where our restrictions are. At the moment we have also obtained documentation that allows for the start of construction, but it is only a condition that these are waste generated in the Republic of Slovenia. I made that very clear. How the Croatian side will react further is difficult to say, but it seems important to me that we are not the ones who violate the Interstate Treaty. So, once again, honourable Member, with nothing but a word, I did not say anything to mislead the Slovenian public.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u53	Mr. Members, do you have a request to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u54	On Thursday, 28 February 2019, we had a meeting of the municipal council in Krk. Your ministry was also invited to the meeting, but no one attended. Look, it's a shame. At the meeting, the public was informed of the inadmissibility of Slovenian representatives in the coordination committee on the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. These, contrary to their powers, have adopted a position that all other radioactive wastes from Croatia may be disposed of at the site in Vrbina in addition to the Croatian part of the waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. This is contrary to Article 5 of the Spatial Planning Regulation, which states that it only disposes of waste generated in the territory of Slovenia. The Krk Municipal Council adopted a decision that strongly contradicts the position of the Coordination Committee and also requires the construction of the landfill as early as possible and the implementation of the protocols adopted between the State and the municipality as possible, as far as the location obtained has been concerned. Government officials assure us that no such procedures are taking place anywhere in the world in a short time. It is true that these are difficult processes, but it is mostly about finding a location, which is what we, who have had a location for almost ten years, have not started to build. And the radioactive waste dump will be full at any time. What is constantly being put off is the final solutions to problems, not waste. Minister, I ask you: What will you do to solve the problem of the disposal of radioactive waste in Slovenia as soon as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u56	Member, now you are the one who is deceiving the Slovenian public. We should know that the Coordination Committee is not the one to make decisions. He can propose, he can seek solutions, and it is by no means a committee that takes final decisions. This is an interstate commission and on our side the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Why certain decisions have been made, why they haven't, I won't get involved in the past. I have told you that I am aware of where our legal limitations are, where our technical limitations can be, if they can be, so we have agreed on an interstate commission that experts, on the one hand, will be legal, on the other hand technical, to get to the bottom of this thing. And once again, until I agree with another partner, it seems to me that if I went to build a nuclear waste storage facility on my own, I would be in breach of an interstate contract. I believe you're not asking me to do this. Since I've been a minister, I've done everything I can to make things run as this contract has been. I believe that, in accordance with the Treaty, as we are bound by the hands, both sides, we will ensure that the waste is safely disposed of. I have made it clear that we are ready, and I have made it clear that we cannot and will not accept the small part that does not occur in the Republic of Slovenia. I tell you this, I can also come to the municipal council, only with the right information and with the right documents should I also communicate with the local community. I met with the mayor several times and told him everything I am explaining today very clearly. So it is also unfair on his part if he did not say so in the congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u57	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u58	Thank you. On 14 February, we had the 4th meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, at which we discussed the report on the operation of the Fund for the financing of NEK decommissioning. Members of the opposition and also of the coalition found that the problems accumulate and that Slovenia also has unresolved issues with Croatia in this area. Since this issue is obviously of very wide importance, I propose that the discussion be held here at one of the following meetings under Article 246. I'd like to say, Madam Secretary, one more thing. I'm not talking about you, who's been a minister for seven, eight months. It's like that case I told the Prime Minister that maybe certain employees are giving you things on the table because you're certainly not familiar with everything. Believe me, the Christian congregation council sat in 2009 and late in the night, even after the adjourned session we confirmed the landfill in Krška, even now we had four points, I think you are familiar with all four points. But Mr Stritar did not come before us for the last time and said what I asked him on the congregation council: I first heard the 2025 anniversary, which is crumbling because it is not written anywhere. But it is true that Croatians speak all the time and in the media that they have time to build a landfill two years after the nuclear closure, which means in 2044. In 2023 a nuclear power plant in Krka should be closed, but it has already been extended for 20 years. Therefore, I propose that we take this problem seriously and discuss and definitively address it, because the Krk Municipal Council, believe it, is against the Posavci from Croatia to drive low and medium radioactive waste into a warehouse in Krk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your motion tomorrow as part of the vote. Mrs Natasa Sukič, you have asked a question about the mobile phone at the Infrastructure Inspectorate. Madam Secretary, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u60	Thank you. It's just a few specific data and dates, so I'm going to read it. Two applications for torture in the workplace against the Chief Inspector have already been filed in spring 2018. Let me begin by saying that for me any mobile phone is totally unacceptable. Minister Gasperšič appointed a commission, in accordance with the Regulation on Security of the Dignity of Employees in the Authorities of the State Administration, to determine the circumstances of alleged suffering in the workplace. It should be said that the report shows that the Commission cannot confirm that it was a mobile phone. However, she found that relations were poor at the inspectorate. That report, dated 2 July 2018, was delivered to the Minister of State in one copy and was also intended to interview the Chief Inspector and took note of the final findings of the report on 28 August 2018. After assuming the post of Minister, we also met with a hundred cases and, in November 2018, at the request of the representative union of our Ministry, we also invited Mr Frančišek Verk, President of the Trade Union, to the Ministry. Along with this employee, he met with the secretary general, and they talked about what could be done, what could be done to improve things. However, the registrar filed a written application on 12 January of this year. We arrested her on January 15, 2019. On 25 January, we sent a request for a supplement, offering an opportunity to clarify the additional circumstances in person if it would be more appropriate. We once again held a meeting at the Ministry of Infrastructure, and then we did, or I myself appointed a commission on 13 February to take account of the circumstances of this application. Of course, we have to wait until then. The initial deadline was already March 8, 2019, but so that all the Witnesses could be heard, there were school holidays, and another hospital, the matter went a little further. That is how I expect this report to be prepared shortly. There's one more thing we've agreed on or we're going to do. This week, among all the staff at the Inspectorate, there will be a survey of the satisfaction of the employees, to find out how things are going and, above all, what they would want to do with the relationships that, hand to heart, are not the best, I will say improvement.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u61	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Madam Members, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u62	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for that introductory explanation. Now I believe, this is a very painful matter and you have stumbled upon this case. However, given that you have zero tolerance at the Ministry to suffer in the workplace, I have received information that these two who have reported suffering have been reported by the Commission at all or no one has notified either of the completion of the procedure or of the findings of the Commission. In addition, we can read in the media about new pressures on workers who are also witnessing. You know, they're not the only ones who testify that there really are outrageous things going on there. It is also said that the proportion of hospital absences that are likely, at least I suppose, may also be due to this type of mobile phone. I'm interested in your comment: Do you think this could be the result of a mobile phone? I'm also interested, because you probably don't have this information right now: How much did this percentage of the patients increase? The president of the Verk syndicate himself said that he had written to you several times and that you did not first respond to his letters. Now you say he was there. If you'll just explain it to me a little bit. I'm also interested in the case of Tibor Kuštrin, who first reported this bullying, this mobbing. He had been well evaluated before, and after all this application he simply lost his job. Now there's a case in court, and I want to know: Are you familiar with this case? Will you take action before the epilogue in court, because I believe that this is a very suspicious situation of job loss? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u63	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your addition. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u64	Let's start off by saying that we didn't avoid any meetings at the Ministry. Of course, Mr Verk must know that for certain things a certain person at the Ministry is significantly more competent than a minister. The Secretary-General, who is responsible for organizing the Ministry, met with him immediately. So to me, I'm gonna say, it was in the media and it wasn't best for me, but anyway, it was. I'm not going to go into that work of the First Commission either. I wasn't checking, they were informing, they weren't informing. I can argue that in this second procedure, we will do things right for the applicant. I'm not going to talk about names, but as I'm aware, I think it's also in court, at least on one level, a matter you've been talking about, it's already over, and it's in the service of the Ministry or the inspectorate. More than trying really hard to improve the working situation at the Ministry and Inspectorate, at this point I find it difficult to say, but I believe you agree with me that, until things are done, we can't even charge in some way. I don't have enough medical records right now. I can give it to you. But I'll tell you that I also received a letter from the employees, who stepped into the defense of this same inspectorate. I propose that this commission, which I have appointed myself, finishes its work and then we find out how things can be done in this particular case. What is even more important to me is that the working environment changes for everyone. That's why the survey I was talking about, which I'll be able to get to know you when the state analysis is done.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u65	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. Mr Gregor Perič, you asked about the introduction of a combined ticket for all users of public passenger transport. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u66	Thank you, too, for that question. I am pleased to tell you that just before I came here today, I signed the materials for re-intersort coordination for the introduction of a single ticket, a single ticket that could be used by people combined with a train, a bus, regardless of the carrier. I think this will be a big step forward, but, of course, when this single ticket is introduced, it is also necessary to provide adequate means of driving, to reduce driving time so that public transport is even interesting. Therefore, the introduction of this single ticket may have lasted a little longer than I would have wanted, because we went along with the introduction of this ticket also in the introduction of fast lines from more remote places, such as Maribor, Koper, Gorica, and there are some more, so that this single ticket would finally, I will say, achieve the goal, this is to get as many people to work using public transport. Like I said, I'm happy to tell you this, it's in intersectoral coordination. I hope there won't be any major objections within the coalition. At one of the next meetings, I will also present this to the coalition. As has already been said, it is envisaged that this single ticket will be valid as from 1 June 2019. At the same time, the rapid lines I spoke about will also be introduced. And the cost or price of this single ticket will also go down. I'm happy to hear your predictions, but I'll be even happier on June 1st, when maybe we can both ride this one ticket.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u67	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Member, would you like a further question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! Madam Secretary, the rest of you are present! I am grateful for this response and I am pleased that the procedure in the Government has then been repeated in terms of inter-sectoral coordination. As far as I am aware, this interdepartmental coordination has already been done in the previous mandate, but it is perfectly logical and understandable that every minister would then want to be behind the act that he will put into consideration. On the other hand, this is an area that is important both in terms of ecologicality and mobility, as already mentioned today. It is also important from the point of view of public funds, as there are quite a few taxpayers' millions. We are talking about a bag of money that weighs about 120 million euros, so it is important that these funds are spent in a way that is as effective as possible. As it is said, I welcome the fact that this regulation procedure was launched or signed today. I'd like to ask or have one question: How much regulation or how much procedure itself affects the road transport law, in particular from the point of view of the operator in this area? Do you have any information on this? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u70	Of course, the regulation cannot and must not and does not affect the law of the controller, as long as it is amended, it is now a ministry. I know that the previous leadership had different ideas and wanted to authorize a company to do so. I think that this solution will also help us because we are forced to do so, because we are already too late due to European rules, that within 14 days to one month we will also be able to get ahead of the coalition with this solution. The regulation cannot and will not interfere with the law. We are also preparing a change to the transport law because of this – one is the manager, the other are the disabled and the third are the athletes, where I am also sure, of course we are talking about the top athletes, that they need to go across and help them where the country can. Let me be clear and clear immediately that this Single Ticket Regulation is not prepared in any way to save public funds. More importantly, I think it is important to get as many people on public transport as possible for environmental purposes, as has been said. Please do not talk about making such changes for the sake of savings. It is not at the Ministry and will not be the primary objective of saving. However, it is true that these tickets, as I have already said, will be able to drive with one card, whether it is a train or a bus, and something else, we are also talking with urban traffic, so that for a minimum of one ticket you can use the same ticket with a minimum surcharge in urban transport. I think that when it is introduced, it will really be one big step forward with environmental objectives and absolutely no fiscal cuts in the means of transport to work.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u71	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You also have the question of Mr France Kepa regarding the rehabilitation of state roads. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u72	Thank you very much for this last question from last month. In 2019, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure, DRSI, will obtain all the required reviewed project documentation at the level of the PZI. The purchases of needed land are being accelerated at this time and they will be completed no later than 30. 9. 2020. That's our plan or our plan. According to the agreement with the Municipality of Trebnje, the construction of the central intersection of Trebnje under the castle and Treles connection is a priority in the first phase. Once all the necessary land has been obtained, the DRSI will be able to access the tender documentation for construction. Construction on other sections will take place phased out, all in agreement with local communities. The entire route is also included in the agreement for the development of the region and is consequently subordinated to the use of European cohesion funds, which means that the construction must be completed by the end of 2023. This milestone also sets out the dynamics in which our Directorate will plan financial resources in a year's budget. As regards the peaceful carriage, after 14 months the Directorate received the project conditions for the transfer of R1-215, which are 7. 3. 2019 issued by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for waters from New City. The first step forward is the innovation of the hydrological-hydraulic study produced at the time of the formation of the municipality's detailed OPPN spatial plan for the periphery and the consideration of hydrological baselines from the study carried out by DHD in February 2019. The innovation should also be extended to the inflow area. To this end, the Directorate will further address the full scope of the new hydrological-hydraulic study with the New Town Waters Directive, which could be completed within a month or two. This study, however, is one of the important conditions that the designer can even begin to produce PGD or PZI documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u73	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Members, would you like to ask a supplementary question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u74	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Here you can see exactly how long it takes in Slovenia – after 14 months is the answer to an issue. I'm interested in Trebnje: Will it finally be possible to remove these five superstructures, which have been waiting for ten years and are very dangerous, to see the net? I suggest that when you go to Dolenjska or Posavje, you take three, four minutes of time and go from the new highway to the old highway, and you will see these overpasses, you can see the net below, the fence is a problem, so this is a very dangerous matter. Our party has proposed to speed up the matter and to move some money for 2022, when it is due to be completed, to 2019 or 2020, because the matter is very dangerous. You'll see for yourself that the matter is very loud. However, this slows down, it was promised in 2010, when the highway opened up to do it in a short time, but now we are in 2019, and it is still not done. I'm afraid the overpasses will fall by themselves. I would ask for the exact time dimension, as you mentioned in the box, to remove these bulkheads.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u76	If you don't mind, I'd like to give you accurate written information about the overpasses. I believe they planned for this to happen. The other thing is procedure. Yeah, they run like they run. There's a whole bunch of projects. We were just talking to the College of the Ministry today about a whole bunch of projects to write a letter and send it to the Ministry of Environment and Space, because we are simply powerless here too. As in the rest of the projects, we are bound to draw on European funds, which means that the money we have will remain on the table. But we as the Ministry of Infrastructure or the directorate as the contractor through these things, unfortunately, can't. At least this is where we got our answer. So we can go ahead and do things. I can assure you that if possible, if things can move forward, we will do our utmost to find financial resources if the procedures for redemption and everything else are to go as well, with all this documentation that needs to be made. As far as these five overpasses are concerned. I believe they're in very bad shape, and I'll be happy to take a look at that on occasion. Here I ask you if I can really give you an answer or an assurance in writing when these superstructures are expected to collapse. Very specific.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u77	Thank you, Madam Secretary. If I have seen correctly, the Member of Parliament would like to proceed on a procedural basis. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u78	On the basis of Article 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly decide to hold a debate on this subject at its next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are voting on your motion tomorrow as part of the vote. This brings us to the next set. I find that the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jernej Pikalo, is absent until 3 p.m. But we have three questions for him. These are the questions raised by Mr Željko Ciegler, Mr Primož Siter and Mr Mark Bandell. If you wish, we can submit these questions to the next, this is the 7th regular session, but you can also request a written answer. Then we submit all the questions to the 7th regular meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you for your answer. By doing so, honourable Members, we are moving on to the questions of Members and Members, to the so-called first round. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, this time too is your first word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. I expected the Prime Minister to wait and answer health questions, because, during this time when we do not have a minister, he also appointed the Minister of Health and said he would also cover this part. But apparently the health problems are too bad for the Prime Minister to answer here and leave it to the future minister. My question was about family doctors. In recent days we have been monitoring practically the withdrawals of family doctors at all ends and places, which could mean that even 325 thousand people would have lost their doctor. So we read about the departure of doctors from Nazarje Medical Home, Celje Health Home, Kranj Medical Home. I guess the minister's not entirely innocent after all. I know things are older than they were, and they didn't happen yesterday, but something happened yesterday, i.e. during the time of this government and under the Ministry or under the President of the Government, Mr Sarc, and also as Minister of Health. At the meeting of the Government on 21 February, a general agreement was adopted, which was confirmed by the Government. This general agreement has passed on additional burdens. You have practically added to doctors who have for several years warned that they are overloaded and that they can no longer do their job, an additional 200 patients. Of course, it was clear that rebellion would occur or that family doctors once again pointed out that they were exhausted and burned out, went to hospitals, could no longer do their work properly, as they should do according to medical doctrine. I also wanted to ask Mr Šarc, given that in the coalition you are mainly advocates of public health: what happens to this public health care if doctors in public institutions practically give up? We talked about a lot of things at the hearing today. We didn't make it to the end. We'll talk about it tomorrow. Concessions shall not be granted because once public institutions provide supplies. Now we see it's not like that. I do not see any concessionaires withdraw, even though they want to be burdened, but it is true that they themselves can schedule time and work differently from those in public institutions. So I think it's a very problematic thing. Of course, I'll ask the future minister or tomorrow morning at the candidate's hearing. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u81	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your question. You have the word Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u82	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister! Europeans avoid paying corporate taxes cost a few billion euros a year. The tax system is clearly needed for a thorough reform at European level, which will eventually enable us to stop the race to the bottom that we are witnessing and prevent profits from leaking into tax havens, gradually enter into a single tax on digital services and introduce reporting between Member States' tax authorities. In recent years, there have been many scandals that have shown how corrupt the existing system is and how bloodyly we need some solutions. I am talking, of course, about Luxleaks, Panamanian documents and the big digital giants: Google, Amazon, Facebook and Apple. On 15 January this year, the European Commission presented a proposal for a more efficient and democratic EU tax policy decision-making process. Within this proposal, the European Commission proposes the so-called four steps, four steps to modernise European tax policy and adapt it to the 21st century. The main objectives of this measure are to stop the decision by consensus but by a qualified majority. We know that some countries have consistently blocked in the past any tax legislation, particularly those that are in one way or another tax havens, or very tax-friendly countries such as Luxembourg and Ireland. Just a few days ago, for example, he dropped taxes on digital services because, despite the majority of members' support, four of them vetoed. This is an example of how tax policy in the existing system cannot move from the status quo and is a hostage of these countries. On Tuesday, 12 February, following a media report, a large majority of EU member governments challenged this proposal, which would introduce a qualified majority decision-making, including in the field of taxes. The main argument is the so-called protection of state sovereignty. In this way only the largest countries or their ministers supported this proposal on the ECOFIN Council. I'm talking about France, Germany and Spain. After closed doors, it is said that the proposal received even less support, and according to the report, you, the Minister-designate, have actually joined these countries with your support. So first of all, I'm asking you: Why did Slovenia not join in supporting this proposal from the European Commission, saying that we would vote by qualified majority? Do you think it makes sense, at the level of European legislation, to ensure that online giants are properly taxed, to make provisions on tax avoidance and to make it more difficult for businesses to operate in tax havens?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, you have a chance to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u84	Your Honor! Tax legislation harmonised at European Union level shall be adopted by agreement of all Member States at the Council of the European Union, with the European Parliament having a consultative body. That's how it's arranged now. The European Commission is in its communication of 15. 1. 2019 proposed to amend the procedure for the adoption of legislative acts in the field of taxation adopted by the Council of the EU. The European Commission proposes a gradual transition from decision-making to decision-making with the consent of all Member States, this is the adoption of legislative acts on the basis of a qualified majority. On 12 February, the ECOFIN meeting was held, which I, as a finance minister, also attended. There has been a rather long, varied debate in this area, in particular either a qualified majority, i.e. the decision-making of a qualified majority, which is understood primarily by large countries, or a consensus, what we now have, where a consensus decision is to be reached, which is clearly supported by most countries, including some large and, of course, few without exception, an ever smaller country, including Slovenia. This shows, in fact, the importance that Member States attach to the tax area. You know, it's fiscal policy that we have left at the country level to run it on our own that we don't run monetary policy on our own anymore. And, of course, on the success and progress of the development of the existing EU regulation, where rules in the tax area are adopted by consensus, we believe that the possibility of equal treatment of all Member States in the framework of a legislative procedure at EU level is ensured. In fact, as soon as the concerns of most financial ministers were expressed, it is the decision-making of a qualified majority and the impact, if so expressed, on national budgets from the point of view of taking these decisions, if individual Member States lose this autonomy of decision-making or codecision. It is not necessary for all these measures to be for the benefit of individual members, that some of them, as a rule, may be looking for a solution, that is, for a long time, but that is usually to be found in the end. You mentioned this tax on digital services. In fact, in this part too, all members were not able to decide and in fact are looking for an even broader global concept of the OECD regime. I think this one's going to be accepted. It is true that the process is often long-lasting, coordination is tiring, yet a large majority of the smaller Member States estimate that this existing regime is better than a qualified majority. Nevertheless, most Member States, including me, have supported the so-called step-by-step approach to finding some solutions in this area. And I will exceptionally read, if you allow, the sentence that I pulled out in English, but then I will translate it: “Thefore we would invest a step-by-step approach in the near future and we support the unique of voting”. So Slovenia, as a majority of the smaller countries, because we have also agreed on this in fact, supports a gradual transition and a gradual agreement and arrival, perhaps not at all, but at certain segments where we would choose areas for a qualified majority, but until we decide on this and agree on it, Slovenia advocates a consensus of decision-making. I, too, think that this is in the interest of Slovenia, I have expressed my support for this proposal. As is the case with ECOFIN, the European Commission, as you know, these circles, these interactions that are spinning, this process will take some time, but I believe that in the end we will be able to find a compromise solution, as always within the European Union, that some areas will go in the direction of decision-making with a qualified majority, and some, I think, in the interests of our country, remain by consensus.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u85	Minister, you've wasted time you don't have. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u86	In fact, I expected this argument, because it was, not least, repeatedly exposed, but I think that this is a convenient excuse for some small countries, but in spite of all the facts of the tax oasis, I have already mentioned Luxembourg or Ireland and so on. In short, regardless of this fear or the concerns you have raised, Mr Minister, we still have a serious problem with tax policy at European Union level. Once again, we have had serious problems, Luxembourg Leaks, Panama Papers and so on, in short, tax havens are something that is a serious problem of the European Union, and a problem that the European Union cannot face mainly because of the so-called veto of these small countries that benefit from such an arrangement. But I'm still going to ask again another question that I don't think I've got the answer to: How, then, can the European Union ensure that at least some mechanisms are put in place, bearing in mind that this agreement in the field of so-called digital tax is maintained? How do we tax the big information giants, the already mentioned GAFA tax, is called Google, Amazon and so on? In fact, how can we prevent money from leaking into tax havens if we remain in this way? How can Member States fairly collect tax countries that should be paid by large corporations there, but these taxes are simply not collected because of the lack of legislation? The most eloquent example is, say, Amazon.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr Member, for the supplementary question. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u88	Thank you. Surely there are certain anomalies in individual countries, but I do not think that a decision-making method, either by qualified majority or by consent or refusal of consent, is the right way to address this problem. This is one of the rare areas where Slovenia has not an unequal but a truly equal choice. Certain arrangements cannot be adopted without Slovenian consent, so without our vote. I wouldn't have let this thing go so easily, and at this stage, it shows keeping it. As far as different arrangements are concerned, either in the field of digital taxation. It is true that the European Union has not reached consensus within this short time frame, but has not reached it in a number of other areas. We're just gonna have to coordinate. There is growing talk in the direction of a global regime. However, this has been partially settled by individual countries, such as France and Germany. I can tell you that we are also thinking about this arrangement at the Ministry of Finance. I must say, perhaps the closest thing I can think about is the Austrian regime. In the meantime, we can also think about regulation in a similar way.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Branko Grims, who will question the Minister of the Interior of Bosnia and Herzegovina, to Mr Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! For 3 years I have been listening to the story from all sides of how migrants are, with illegal migrants who invade the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, all solved, this problem is no longer the same and so on. Unfortunately, the data speaks quite differently. At the annual level, two years ago a total of less than 2,000 incursions were recorded across the border of the Republic of Slovenia. One year ago, this increased five times, so to speak, the total number of illegal migrants intercepted at the annual level was close to 10,000. The first numbers, which somehow come to the public, feel very shy, perhaps as the Marrakesh agreement already does, show that the situation is even worse this year. That is why it will be very interesting to hear, and I ask the Minister of the Interior this question: Comparably, how many in January, how many in March, how many illegal migrants were intercepted during the incursion across the border of the Republic of Slovenia or within the borders of the Republic of Slovenia two years ago, how many last year and how many so far this year? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Your Honor, thank you very much for your question. First, let me say that the Slovenian police manage the border situation with the Republic of Croatia in relation to illegal migration and also protect the Schengen border in accordance with the Schengen Code. It is true, this year, in 2019, it is from 1st to 21. Last year, only 501 illegal migrants crossed the border with the Republic of Croatia and 178 migrants in 2017. Indeed, the illegal crossing of the border is increasing, also because it was greener and warmer in winter and it was actually easier to cross the border. As far as illegal migration is concerned. Illegal migration is controlled by criminal associations and by individual criminals. This has become a business model, which the police have also successfully prevented and, in fact, the perpetrators of these crimes have successfully managed the crossing or the arresting perpetrators of these people across the border. This year there are already 43 performers with 180 migrants who are actually found by the police both at the border with the Republic of Croatia and within. The police are also all of these, I will say, illegal offences are being monitored, most of which are illegal offences related to police tactics alone. As much as we close the area more effectively in the Koper Police Administration area, this moves us to the Novo Mesto Police Administration. We are now growing somewhat on the Ljubljana Police Administration, in this area, the nomadic area. We are also being opened in the Maribor Police Administration area by this illegal border crossing. In fact, we are effectively prevented by the police, and finally, the return of illegal migrants to the Republic of Croatia takes place with the Croatian security authorities in concrete terms. If we go to the numbers you asked me to. In January 2019 there were 303 illegal border crossings, in January 2018 217 and January 2017 79. In February of this year, 291 in the last year in February 202 and, of course, in 2017 there are only 46. In March of this year there were 746 illegal border crossings, in 2018 82 and in 2017 53. As far as police tactics are concerned, the police have actually adapted to this particular business model, if I say so, criminal associations and criminals, in fact, only tactics. Police forces operate both at the border and inside the country, especially at railway stations and bus stations, where there may also be opportunities for these illegal migrants to be present and, in fact, to travel towards the Republic of Italy and the target countries. We must also say that in 2019 we responded to these threats and risks of illegal migration by purchasing thermal cameras. We're setting up video surveillance at the border. We also purchased a number of vehicles, including special vehicles, which are used at the border, which, in fact, have somehow expired. We also collect various special equipment. In fact, we can also say that the abuse of the asylum system is still taking place, because all those who apply for asylum and then the police process them in accordance with the asylum requirement, use the asylum system and, in fact, leave the country in a certain way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Member, please, you have the floor to request that the reply be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u94	Thanks for those numbers. They are certainly such that they must be of great concern to everyone. If you compare the level for the last two years, there was a 5-fold increase from last year to last year, but this year there is a 2.5-fold increase if you recalculate the numbers that Mr Minister has just said. In particular, it will be in the eyes of March, where the increase according to last year is almost 10 times the number of illegal migrants caught breaking and entering the Republic of Slovenia. This, of course, raises questions about how much we really manage the situation at the border. Nevertheless, it explains why, in recent weeks, virtually all of the foreign newspapers on the Italian side have reported that the Balkan route for illegal migrants has been virtually reopened and is very concerned about what is coming or what awaits us in the coming months. That this is very legitimate also confirms the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, where even in the face of stalemate conflicts it is now further raising dust and causing a number of problems of excessive numbers of illegal migrants, which are constantly being renewed. This is certainly an extremely potential threat for Slovenia as well. It is certainly clear here how big a mistake was the signing of the Marrakesh Agreement, which gave the wrong signal to illegal migrants, and how much damage had been caused because it had not been done in the past in the same way as the neighbouring Hungary had taken it. All of this raises the question of what to do not to be repeated or renewed in the current amount.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, will you answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u96	As far as the police are concerned, the police are monitoring the situation of illegal migration. They also cooperate at the border with members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, to whom we must also thank, the Slovenian Army, for effective operation, joint action at the border. We also set technical solutions, because we know that the police's personnel image itself is not ideal and that actually illegal migration is one of the primary tasks of the Slovenian police. It is true, however, that we have adapted the police's tactics somewhat to actually smuggling illegal migrants and that in fact part of these people or, I will say, we catch these illegal crossings or stop them within the country. In fact, it is reported every day that the Slovenian police are successfully preventing illegal migration in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u98	There is certainly a great deal of gratitude to both the officers on the ground and, of course, the members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, who are still important in their border duties. For for those who come in particular from the field of radical Islam, only the military represents some real force and some real authority. Therefore, of course, even more worrying is the need to re-treat the Slovenian Machete Army and not to devote to it the resources that would be necessary for its further development, for its completion, for the appropriate salary and for the appropriate technical equipment. At the same time, this raises a question that concerns all of us. The police are making a tremendous effort here to block all the mafia groups involved, but if I use a little paraphrasing in this, it's pretty obvious in the last period when it comes to preventing the illegal mafia. While the legal mafia, of course, I am talking about those NGOs that are obviously helping illegal migrants to break across the border of Slovenia and then here in delaying procedures and all others, and this mafia should, of course, be taken under closer scrutiny, as was done by neighbouring Italy, and properly looked under the fingers. I can see that the police have already taken a few steps here as well. In part, it was also given by the prosecution, who said that when it comes to apparently profitable activities, they cannot hide behind a humanitarian or other high-level mission. Well, the fact is that later data were published, as some have also paid EUR 116 per hour, all at the expense of the taxpayers of the Republic of Slovenia, which is obviously a profitable activity, even if the organisation itself is formally non-profitable, and those who have contracts with it are still making a profit out of it. All this, this is what you need to know, Slovenians, Slovenians, citizens, citizens cost tremendously. How much it is now hidden on many items in the budget, but for this it is running out of money, and when the economic situation becomes worse soon, it will be even more lacking for everything else, for what we would actually have the right of Slovenia, citizens and citizens to receive, from a truly quality education, really quality health care, adequate pensions, everything else that people have every right to. For this reason, I am firmly convinced that all the conditions have been given and it is essential that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia speak about this and find appropriate solutions to limit matters as much as possible and that legal order is consistently established everywhere in Slovenia. For this is a matter of respect for the rule of law, of security, of respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u99	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 26 March 2019, in the framework of the votes. Jani Ivanuša has the floor to ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u100	Mr Vice President, Madam Ministers and Ministers, everyone else is present! In recent years foreign direct investment in Slovenia has improved. According to the Bank of Slovenia, the most important countries of investors are Austria, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Germany and the Netherlands. However, companies with foreign direct investment still represent a low percentage of the total population of Slovenian companies. For these companies, they also pay 10.1% higher salary per employee compared to the average wage per employee in Slovenia. Similarly, companies with foreign direct investment have achieved higher net profit and added value to the employee. I believe that Slovenians and Slovenians would like more employers. Mr Minister, I assume you too have a lot of credit for some resounding foreign investment, Magna, Yaskawa, Sumitomo. I want to know: Can you tell us more about attracting foreign investment? Who in particular, which authorities, which ministry – I believe that there are more – which services attract foreign direct investment in Slovenia? I don't know how much you can tell us, but still: In what way is he attracted to them? Are foreign investors offering themselves to invest in Slovenia? And one more thing. Bank of Slovenia. In its annual report on direct investment, it also notes that the data on investor countries change significantly by dividing them by the owner's country of origin. Thus, when reviewing direct investments according to the home country of the owner: Germany, the United States of America and Japan, the Russian Federation, America will prove to be a more important country investor in Slovenia than in the image of investor support. Mr Minister, why do you think companies wishing to invest in Slovenia are doing this through other countries and not via their home country? Is the problem in Slovenia or elsewhere? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u101	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u102	Honorable Chairman, esteemed assembly! Mr Jani Ivanuša, honourable Member, thank you very much for the question. In order to attract foreign direct investment in Slovenia, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, as the central authority for policy-making in the area of investment promotion, and the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia to promote entrepreneurship, internationalisation of foreign investment and technology, are responsible for shorter SPIRIT, which acts as a public executive agency, with a key Slovenian business point for investors and exporters, the so-called SPOT. The Ministry and the Agency shall work in close cooperation with sectoral policy makers, including other departments and ministries. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has an important role to play along with diplomatic consular missions around the world, and key integration bodies in terms of promotion are also the Cabinet of the President of the Government and the Office of the President of the Republic. The other institutions operating in this area are domestic and foreign chambers of commerce, regional development agencies, municipalities and others. The measures by which Slovenia attracts foreign direct investment are in particular: tax relief for R & D investments, one is 100 %, the other is 40 %, we have maintained them, these tax incentives encourage domestic and attract foreign investors; investment incentives for subsidies that have been under the previous law and are now new, so that they are within the competence of the Ministry to decide on the amount of subsidies in view of the situation and from 0 to 20% if the investment is of strategic importance; and the provision of quality information, advice and other services for investors; the implementation of market-communication activities; the organisation of events that contribute to strengthening the visibility of the Republic of Slovenia as an investment site; and the project approach to managing investment projects. Multinational companies often make their investments indirectly through their European subsidiaries. This is also why there is a difference between the origin of investments. This is a common practice where global companies are looking for complex ownership structures to carry out their global operations, their financial flows, their intellectual property and reduce tax and regulatory burdens. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, we believe that in such cases it is simply business-market decisions of investment companies. I would like to point out that any investor who has a clear business vision in Slovenia, sustainable orientation and responsibility, regardless of which country he comes from, is welcome to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to request that the reply be completed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u104	Thank you. What you said, I accepted. But I'm curious because you mentioned the office of the president of the country: Is the President of the Republic of Slovenia even more or less influential or is it merely a protocol character? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u105	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u106	First of all, I've listed the two chiefs who are doing the main job, so to speak, the Ministry and the SPIRIT Agency. Of course, basic information, when someone is interested in an investment, is supported by all parts of our state apparatus that have contact with foreign countries. Thus, the Office of the President of the Republic, in individual cases, can bring – and has also brought – some basic information, and of course we have finished things on our side. When it comes to greater investment, it is particularly important that all parts of the country, governments, in some way act in a coordinated manner to present the interesting investment environment in Slovenia. In this light, it is necessary to say that in the last period more and more activities are becoming or are being carried over to the local, municipal level, where mayors are also looking for or giving information to potential investors. Of course, then the realisation mainly focuses on SPIRIT and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u108	In the light of all the past questions I have asked in the National Assembly, but I have never come to the debate, I will say anyway that I will not use this, I will not demand a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will ask the Minister of the Interior, Boštjan Poklukkar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u110	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, I received a rather extensive response from you this month to my initiative to ban the sale, sale and use of pyrotechnic articles. I have based my initiative for this prohibition on a substantive basis on arguments that are increasingly widely accepted and prove to justify the harmful consequences of the use of pyrotechnic articles even in cases where they are used in a lawful and correct manner. I understand that Slovenia is one of the countries in Europe that has the field of sale and use of pyrotechnic articles regulated by a relatively strict or even the strictest of countries in the neighbourhood. In response to the parliamentary initiative, you replied that, in your opinion, the legislation already in force limits the use of pyrotechnic articles to a sufficient extent and therefore does not need to be amended. I'm afraid I can't say that myself. Let me mention that we are still witnessing the extremely negative consequences of the use of pyrotechnic products, in some cases these cases end with the most serious and lasting injuries in young people. Every year in December, we are witnessing images of children who lose their hands and so on. On the other hand, various civil initiatives and individuals wishing to prohibit the use, sale and sale of pyrotechnic articles are also addressed to Members and Members. Let me also remind you of a petition that won as many as 30,000 signatures in December. I consider them to be very legitimate, reasonable and supportive. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Do you also support the efforts of various civil initiatives to generally prohibit the sale and sale of pyrotechnic articles? Are you having any dialogue with them? What is your assessment of the possibility of further limiting the harmful effects of the use of pyrotechnic articles within the current legislation? What would be the measures and activities of the Ministry of the Interior in this case? Are you thinking about the initiative or activities of the Republic of Slovenia to propose a gradual more stringent restriction within the Member States of the European Union, if not a ban on the use and sale of pyrotechnic articles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I didn't agree to pyrotechnic products myself, even though I did deal with them a lot in my career, because I was a member of the Slovenian Army and also in Civil Protection when I was working, it wasn't foreign to us. However, as Minister of the Interior, by prohibiting the sale, sale and use of pyrotechnic articles, I am facing both initiatives at the Ministry of the Interior after the full liberalisation of this area and, as you are saying, after the full tightening or prohibition of this area. The Slovenian legislation, which we are actually monitoring at the Ministry of the Interior, is well regulated, is also strict and, in fact, controlling pyrotechnic articles, both the sale and resale of these pyrotechnic articles, is appropriate in Slovenia. It is true that we have also come up with some initiatives to make the offence ourselves, we know when there are actually legal restrictions and full prohibitions concerning pyrotechnics to move from the area of criminal law to the crime. We have also sent this initiative to the Ministry of Justice, and I believe that when we discuss it, we will also examine and discuss it carefully. However, I must say that we note that the trend of trafficking, the use of pyrotechnics and sales in recent years has been slightly reduced, especially at a time when this is allowed in Slovenia, and yet when you talk about these accidents, we are faced with the use of those banned F2 and F3 products that they actually do themselves, as you have already said, children are often victims of doing so themselves at home, that they use it in large quantities, that they are doing these pyrotechnics in a way that is actually illegal, even very dangerous, that they get this information online on the world and that it is sometimes difficult to prevent it from even using the repressive means that the police actually have. Therefore, at a time when it is actually necessary to take a thorough approach to this issue, the police have also taken preventive action, with those tasks that they are actually preventing or in some way raising awareness of young people, and, of course, parents, that in some way we ensure that doing this is dangerous and that, as a society, as parents, we do not tolerate it, but we know that what is sometimes the sweetest that these accidents have been, unfortunately, even in the past. I believe they will be in the future. However, I must say that we are carefully looking out for this area at the Ministry of the Interior. We also run a system with regard to the Directive, where we monitor and inform the Commission of these accidents involving pyrotechnics. As far as awareness of these pyrotechnic means is concerned, in particular those legally prohibited under categories F2 and F3 we know that these funds are in fact prohibited. The Internal Affairs Inspectorate, including in the case of pyrotechnics already at the stage when contracts are concluded, is in fact raising awareness and also informing traders of which pyrotechnics are dangerous, which are the elements which can in fact lead to significant injury. We consider this system to be very orderly in Slovenia. For if it were liberal here and, I will say, the market is open, there would be funds that would not be verified, and even if it were banned, there would be these pyrotechnic means and, consequently, accidents. My answer is, I think Slovenia has good legislation, but with preventive means we will increase control over this work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u113	Thank you very much. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary-General. Unfortunately, I cannot fully agree and attach and, in fact, I appeal that one debate be held in this direction and perhaps reconsider. Because I must say that, of course, I welcome all the preventive actions carried out by the Ministry of the Interior, but I must tell you that, even from the same inspectorate, they very much welcomed my initiative to ban. So there's probably a little mix of reactions. And maybe you need to look a little bit wider. Actually, it's not just about selling firecrackers. Today, firecrackers have been replaced by various rockets. And if we look at when one municipality organizes fireworks, it has to follow various safety and other regulations, technical ones, while the general public, and the general public, can buy these rockets and generally, in the midst of a crowd, will blow them up. It may also be here to consider whether it would be wise to determine when these missiles could be launched at all. To determine that, I don't know, we need a report from the fire department, the administrative unit, and so on. I think the area here is still very open and it's really worth thinking about. Once again, I appeal to you, even to go in the direction of total ban and reselling, because, I will repeat, all the reasons that I have already listed: physical and psychological injuries, general and sound pollution of the environment; after using these resources on the ground and in the air, the chemical and plastic particles that we then breathe remain; endangering individual freedom, negative effects on animals and so on. Please, let's really give it another thought, I think we're really mature enough as a society to make a concrete ban. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u116	Dear Member, I agree with you that it is necessary to reconsider that it is necessary to sit down again. Finally, I am ready to accept the proponents of this petition to discuss these matters, so that we can reconsider them. I agree, however, that shooting missiles and throwing firecrackers in some crowds, in some populated areas, this is happening to us, but, I will tell you this, in recent years, really is a little less, but the thing is for all of us, the thing is not the last social acceptance and not the last of these pitfalls, and we are suffering not only the people, but also the animals. It seems to me that it is unacceptable that this is happening, but it is allowed in marriage and I believe that as a society we will be better prepared, and we will react differently, and that certain actions will be even more unacceptable for all of us, as long as we talk, negotiate and eventually reach agreement in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Boris Doblekar has the floor to ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pical, who is absent until 3 p.m. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u118	President, thank you so much for your word. I will ask the oral question, despite the fact that the Minister is still a percentage. I say now that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I ask that I also receive an oral reply at the next regular meeting. The Minister of Education, Science and Sport and I also thought to ask the Minister of Agriculture or the new Minister, who is not yet there, about the environment and space, about the game and the beast, which is somehow connected. However, because savages and beasts are separated by ministries – beasts belong to the environment and space, savages under the Ministry of Agriculture, this time I will not be able to fully ask the oral question that I also wanted. I will therefore ask only an oral question this time to the Minister for Education Science and Sport. I ask him: How is the problem of game and beast and the provision of transport on dangerous school roads where the safety of pupils is particularly threatened by the presence of large beasts? There are increasing numbers of great beasts in Slovenia, because it is simply not enough for the country to shoot and reduce these beasts in our country, but later on at the next meeting. On one occasion, I will quickly try to paint a problem that is all over the country, namely, in the Municipality of Lithium, where students or congregations face difficulties due to beasts in the area of Dola, Gabrovka and Polšnik. I therefore ask the Minister of Education: Why does the Ministry not reimburse the costs of larger services and the purchase of vans in cases where schools carry out their own transport for their pupils due to dangerous school routes? The argument that investment costs are not sustainable is that contractual carriers also calculate these costs at their own price, which the Ministry will reimburse in this case, even though their transport is more than 2.5 times more expensive than those carried out by the school itself. Why does the Ministry of Education not reimburse the driver's salary in the case of transports carried out by the school for July and August? All those costs are borne by the municipalities, although under Article 81 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the Ministry is obliged to cover them. Then, of course, I will also give the initiative that this cost of covering transport due to hazardous school routes is also covered by wild boars, especially wild boars. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u119	Thank you very much. You will receive an oral response at the next meeting. Zvonko Černač will ask Justice Minister Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u120	One nice greeting to all, especially the Minister of Justice, to whom I refer, regarding the prevention of the abuse of personal bankruptcy. In the past, in the last 11 years, personal bankruptcy has been introduced as a mechanism to prevent not only material but also the personal breakdown of individuals who are in debt and cannot fully repay obligations. This institute is intended to help people who have not lost their debt due to cost-effectiveness, but to reduce their income due to the loss of their jobs, diseases, other family circumstances, other reasons they could not have affected. Therefore, personal bankruptcy is intended to enable creditors to pay as much as possible, and those who have been burdened with debt on the brink of survival have a decent life. In most cases, it was used as such. Even though these individuals lost a lot and were deprived of a lot of money because of personal bankruptcy, they were able to relive normally after a certain period of time without the burden of the past. In recent years, however, we have not only witnessed weekly, but also daily, cases that speak of the abuse of this institute. There are so many examples that we can talk about the systematic abuse of the personal bankruptcy institute. Individuals trigger personal bankruptcy and, upon completion, even write-offs of millions of euro liabilities. It is, of course, triggered after they have previously cleared up their accumulated assets resulting from such or other works. In most cases, they live not only normal but on a large leg. Some operate through other companies, including state or parastatal companies. Officially, their bank accounts are empty. Officially they do not have property, yet they drive in luxury cars, they live in luxury villas because their properties, their villas, yachts, companies disappeared from their portfolio in time. And all this is happening in front of all of us. All of this also happens before the eyes of the government, the Ministry, which is responsible and responsible for this. That's why I'm asking: What message, in the opinion of the Minister, is sent by the Government and the Ministry leading it by allowing these abuses and by doing nothing to change legislation or conduct? I also ask: What have you done as Minister so far to avoid these abuses? What will you do in the future to prevent these and similar systemic abuse?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u122	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you, also, honourable Member, for this question. It is true, as you yourself have said, that in recent years there have been very, very receptive cases that we have been monitoring. This was also the subject of a broader public and professional debate in 2015. Opportunities for additional upgrades and the possibility of abuse of this institute have been identified. Thus, the Chamber of Governors of Slovenia was actively involved in the solution proposal, and a special implementation group was also set up for this purpose. On 31 March 2016, the National Assembly adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Transactions, Insolvency Procedures and Forced Cessation, by which it completely renewed the personal bankruptcy of the Institute of Liabilities, which has not been renewed since the beginning of 2008 and has not been renewed since 2008. And the purpose of this novel was to replace the possible abuses detected by practice until then. This law entered into force in April 2016, and we are also monitoring today how it is being implemented in practice and also monitoring the effects of this novel, and perhaps later, given what will be found to be an irregularity, we will also enter in with the necessary changes. However, let me say that this novel has significantly upgraded personal bankruptcy with many changes. First of all, the purpose of the new exemption was to allow only an honest and faithful bankruptcy debtor to forgive those obligations that he was unable to repay — as you yourself said in the introduction. At the same time, as in the second instance, obstacles to waiver have also been recast. Since all possible emerging forms of abuse of this right cannot be foreseen and taxively listed, this system has been upgraded by a general clause defining the abuse of the right to discharge. Such a waiver is no longer possible if the conduct of the bankruptcy debtor over the last five years prior to the initiation of a personal bankruptcy procedure or in the light of its property situation results in a waiver of the liability to that insolvency debtor contrary to the purpose of discharge of the obligation. In order to make it easier to prove, the law retained and also renewed legal assumptions that constitute obstacles to the waiver of an obligation, for example, is not allowed to the bankruptcy debtor who, in the last five years prior to the initiation of the insolvency proceedings, assumed obligations which are disproportionate to his property position or, if he had available his assets free of charge or with a minor payment, not if he had carried out a contested legal act in favour of a third party, for which all creditors or only some of them did not receive the payment of claims before the imposition of the personal bankruptcy. We are talking about the free disposal of property, the payment of claims to only one or some of the creditors. Since it is difficult in practice to detect assets, the Slovenian regime of personal bankruptcy has also improved significantly in this work, thus establishing a duty for the bankruptcy debtor to cooperate with the court and the administrator in order to prevent the debtor from hiding the property. Prior to the introduction of personal bankruptcy, the period of dissuasion of the insolvency proceedings of the debtor from the previous three to five years has been extended, while a set of legal transactions and actions which can be challenged over this longer period has also been extended. In the event of a waiver, however, it is later found that this was achieved in a fraudulent manner, for example, because the debtor has covered up the assets that he had prior to the waiver of the obligation, this waiver may also be challenged and this amendment extended the time limit for bringing an action for the annulment of the waiver of an obligation of two years. At the same time, it also provides the possibility for creditors who, after the decision’s power of discharge, find the debtor’s assets acquired prior to the discharge and conceal him to achieve the cancellation of the waiver already if they propose the commencement of the bankruptcy procedure and are not bound here for this three-year period. Of course, we will follow in practice what this means. You are probably asking about specific cases, and there is also a need to monitor each case in practice why it has occurred, and then we can also say on this basis how it should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u123	Yes, Mr Member, you have the floor to request that the reply be completed.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u124	Look, Minister, you've read me the answer to my fellow Member's question, Susana Leup Šimenko, the Government's reply of 15. 6. 2017. There are still three paragraphs left, but I hope you will not continue with them in addition. I want your answer. You have sat in this government as Minister of Defence and not as Minister of Justice, but now you are sitting as Minister of Justice, and I have asked you as Minister of Justice of this government, this time Sharchev, not Cerara's government, what you are or what you will do to prevent these abuses. At that time it was found that they were happening, it was a novel, this novel came into force in April 2016, but the effects of this novel, as we see, are not. The same things that were discussed two years ago, in response by the Government to my colleague's question, are happening today, not only are they happening today, they are happening in a significantly more exposed form than they were then. And you will answer me in response to the Government's reply of 15 June 2017, almost a literal answer to my colleague's question. Now I don't know how people can trust that you're going to do something, how to believe that something about these biggest losers who abuse these things is going to be done, for example, by those who, say, are going to rob the house for 124 euros and sell it and even move it out of this house. So, I'm interested in: In how many cases of personal bankruptcy proceedings has the possibility of challenging legal acts been used? For this period since you've been secretary. In how many cases has an action been filed for the annulment of the waiver of obligations? Will these mechanisms be triggered in cases that have been the most public in the last period? Yes or no? Surely one of the most receptive bankruptcys, the personal bankruptcy of John Zidar, which not only did not pay off the creditors, did not go to a legally competent prison, nor was he in it one day. What are you gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u126	Dear Member, the legislation is in force and I cannot see it differently. This legislation has been in force for three years and should also be monitored; it is likely that the National Assembly does not adopt amendments every month; it should also wait for some time to be implemented. If you were to ask me these questions in writing, I could also give you statistics. We'll give them to you later, now I don't know all the data. We need to ask the courts that run the activities for us to be able to do the same and to present them to you. But as for what we're going to do, I said. In three years, which is the law, we follow. So far, it has not been said by practice that something else needs to be upgraded. However, if you also have in mind the latest rebuttal cases, it is also necessary to draw attention to the active role of creditors to initiate procedures, as well as insolvency managers, because if there is no objection, then the court can also conclude the proceedings as announced and also issue a waiver. I'm sure we'll monitor this. We'll see what the statistics are. So far, no further new proposals have been made, but I have listed nine, ten measures foreseen by the 2016 National Assembly, some of which are certainly well established and also deliver results, but I am sure that the creditor himself, if he waits, waits for, waits for, waits for, has little opportunity to pay, and therefore one of the priorities of the ministry is also education, including awareness, in particular all those which are somehow or otherwise linked to the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u128	On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold its next meeting on this reply. That wasn't the answer. Not just because there were no figures, they're not important to you. It seems very problematic to me that the Minister of the current government is forwarding the question of a Member with the reply of the previous Government, two years old. That seems very problematic to me. I must say that this does not create confidence in me personally, but especially in the citizens, that something will be done in this area. The debate would necessarily be necessary in order to determine whether the Ministry of Justice has any intention of regulating or intends to allow this conflict, which we are now witnessing, is that the rich will still be able to become richer and richer with the abuses of this institution than they have been before. On the other hand, all those who do not have these skills and opportunities will be very costly to pay for personal bankruptcy. For I am sure that in most cases the people who have used this procedure have finally withdrawn very briefly and have lost a great deal of opportunity in their lives. On the other hand, with these systemic abuses, some of the last cases that we could read about in the daily media, the so-called King of Concrete Roc Furlan, Matthew Lascane, Ivan Zidar, I have already mentioned, in the past, Zdenko Pavček, Igor Jurij Pogačar, the building of the NPU, Uroš Ogrin, which built the Stožice through Gradis and so on, all these names speak of the fact that this legislation is not appropriate, but apparently in some systematic way enables these abuses and also the novels that were adopted in the spring of 2016, these matters have not been regulated. And instead of telling the Minister responsible for justice today very clearly and decisively what she would do to prevent the abuse of personal bankruptcy, the question was very clear and clear, it would serve me with a two-year-old response from the government, the previous government. This is what I think is unworthy of this National Assembly, even unworthy of the people concerned by these things, and speaks of the fact that obviously under this government in the Republic of Slovenia there is a regulation that all the hens of thieves will be caught in one way or another, and all the foxes in the henhouse will be released or released. For all major crimes, all major works are not experienced by an appropriate epilogue or the discharge of obligations is taking place or the cancellation of multimillion-dollar liabilities is completed, as we read in the case of the Jankovic family and so on. However, the Minister responsible for this area is citing a better, more active role of creditors. I think it is wrong for this National Assembly to know in how many cases this legislation, which has been amended, has been applied and when lawsuits have been brought in order to find the hidden property, which some have deliberately hidden before they went to bankruptcy, again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 28. 3. 2019, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Branislav Rajić will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Minister, in January this year, the tenant of Edward Rusjan Airport in Maribor, the company Aerodrom Maribor, d. o.o., withdrew from the lease. Until the expiry of the six-month notice period within which the tenant is obliged to take care of the airport’s smooth operation, it shall be for a period of approximately 120 days. In Styria we wonder what fate awaits the airport then. Procurement procedures require a long period of time and this may take several months. Therefore, if we want to keep the airport open in June and beyond when the current lease is terminated, we are now very close to delaying deadlines. The Maribor airport is the only airport in the Republic of Slovenia owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The airport of Ljubljana is sold, and is also Puerto Rican in 53% private property, and the airport in Cerklja is the NATO military airport. Our Stajers airport is seen as an important development potential, as evidenced by the efforts of both politicians, including the Stajer Chamber of Economics. It is also important for the fate of the airport to maintain its status as an international airport. It is necessary to obtain a number of international certificates for operators, businesses and employees performing these tasks. These are both long-term procedures that require specific knowledge, which, of course, is not much. In order to clarify the doubts about the future of the airport arising from the lack of public information as planned by the State, I ask you as the competent minister for infrastructure: Does the Ministry you are in charge of plan the operation or closure of the airport after the conclusion of the contract with the current operator? If he plans to continue operating the airport, how do you plan to ensure that? By an invitation to tender for the award of an airport, by an invitation to tender for a concession act, or will the State take over its own management? Is it planned to maintain the status of an international airport certified for international passenger and freight transport, and how do you plan to achieve this? If the airport loses international airport status, what are the alternatives to its future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u131	Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u132	Thank you very much. In fact, I was also very surprised when the current tenant cancelled the lease in January 2017 for 15 years with the possibility of renewal. Whoever found such a tenant would probably be able to ask you, but okay, you need to move on. We are very well concerned with the situation that it is at this time. At the Ministry, we ordered, but this is a condition that we can go to a new invitation, an appreciation of buildings, real estate, so that we can also assess what the rent should be. However, I want to make it very clear here that those who do not fulfil their obligations to the Republic of Slovenia will not be able to be new tenants. I'm not going to repeat the story, and then because someone changes their minds every two years, even if it goes in some way to blackmail, they repeat these calls. But the fact is, let's be honest with each other, that the Maribor airport has not, in fact, been able to live to this day as it should. I have already said at one of the previous meetings that there are more options, including for the State to take over airport management as it was. However, here only in the short term, about a million euros is the cost per year of the state budget. And I hope that we both agree that, in order for the airport to be empty and not functioning, a million euros is also absolutely too much from the state budget. There is also an amendment to spatial legislation called DN. I believe you know very well that, I think, more than 100, 140 comments came to this VAT, so mainly by the surrounding population, civil initiatives. The people from that end will also be, not to say, but you will have to decide whether you want this airport at all. Like today, without any change, the spatial one obviously has no future. I agree that we can look at the DN, which is at this point in time, I think is far too ambitious, the 600-million investment under the previous government was foreseen, and I don't believe it myself, but without the extension of the track I think this airport will have no chance of staying. And I am also aware that once it is closed, we will never open it again because of all the certificates mentioned earlier. An invitation to tender for the tenant will be issued shortly. I want to get a serious, real tenant, not someone who's gonna sell us a cat in a jacket, and eventually he's just gonna be an empty frog out of it, and he's gonna walk away from it. It's obviously a very unserious partner, but we are where we are. I believe we can find a new tenant. Of course, spatial documents will also have to be brought to an end, and it will be clear where we are prepared and where local people are willing to draw the line. If, on the other hand, there is no understanding or extension of the track, then people from that end will have to understand that such an airport probably does not have a chance of survival, let alone development. But for once in our ministry, we do not discuss the closure of Maribor Airport.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u134	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We also agree that we must move forward and that once closed the airport will never open again. The fact is, however, that the current private-owned airport infrastructure renter also owns land outside the airport area, including parking lots and import routes. How will the smooth operation of the airport be enabled when the land around it is privately owned by the current tenant? What agreement does the Ministry intend to conclude with the former tenant to avoid the risk of shutting down the airport for this reason, i.e. due to inadequate traffic support? Therefore, I also propose that the Ministry of Infrastructure immediately approach the development of a strategy for the future of Edward Rusjan Airport in Maribor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u136	In fact, we have already joined the preparation of this strategy, even more, one week before Minister Gasperšič left this ministry, he signed a contract with a company where he ordered a study on what possibilities Maribor Airport has for development. As far as land is concerned, yes, the contract for the establishment of real land services owned by Maribor Aerodrome concluded this service for a period of 30 years. The Treaty bears the date of 16 December 2016, but unfortunately we have recently found to the Ministry of Infrastructure that this service has been entered, as it must be, is not. So now we're handling these things. What can I say? Things can't be fixed. We are trying to put things as thoroughly as possible as they need to be set up, but now it is difficult for me to tell you whether there will be an interest in the new tenant, but because of the cancellation of the contract and the short term it is impossible to find the concessionaire at this point in time, so let's go looking again for the tenant. If that is not the case, then we will have to look for solutions ahead, but once again, at this point we still do not think about closing Maribor Airport on July 1st. That's what I'm trying to make clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Šircelj will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andre Bertontzl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly! Dear Minister! The balance of the budget was confirmed a few days ago, but even a few days ago an agreement was signed on cooperation between the parties of the coalition and the Left. Here are about 30 measures listed to be taken and, of course, implemented in 2019, some already in mid-year, some later at the end of the year. However, these 30 measures will have financial implications, financial consequences both on the budget's revenue side, perhaps a little less if we are talking, of course, about increasing taxes, especially on income taxes, and much more on the expenditure side. I would like to ask you, as the first question, Mr. Secretary-General: Have you cooperated with this agreement? Second. This agreement does not say how much it is actually going to cost. There's no such thing here. The only financial provision is in the preamble, in paragraph 5, that each measure must be assessed in the light of public finances. Pike and nothing more. This does not mean that it is not accepted; it does not mean that it is disabled in any way. This Agreement also does not contain any, for example, financial provisions, in short, that any measure must be in accordance with the fiscal rule or that all the measures enshrined in this Agreement must be in accordance with a fiscal rule which is a constitutional category. I want to know, like I said before: Did you take part in this? What is the financial impact of these measures? On the one hand, how much additional expenditure is there on the basis of these measures and how much additional revenue is there, and what does this actually mean for Slovenian public finances? Will another new budget be needed for 2019, or will the existing budget be amended for 2019? What information will you send to the European Commission or to the European Union regarding these potential expenditure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Thank you for asking. The signed agreement sets out the substantive and formal framework for project cooperation between the coalition and the client of Levico. Areas are defined at the substantive level and procedures and means of coordination between the signatories to the agreement are defined at the formal level. It is clear from the agreement that the content is recorded in order to take into account that any measure must be previously assessed in light, clearly, of finance, in the preamble. In this respect, each measure will be coordinated and guided in the opposite direction with the Ministry responsible for each area, and for those reasons, of course, it is not now possible to provide an assessment of the financial impact. So any competent ministry that defines the proposal in substance will also appraise it financially, stating, of course, that it must be within the framework of public financial sustainability. Therefore, the competent ministry will provide an assessment of the financial impact of each measure on public finances. In line with the social dialogue agreement, it is expected that the measures will also be negotiated with the social partners, including in the Economic and Social Council, where individual measures will be modified, coordinated and eventually a consensus will be needed. In doing so, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will design and coordinate systemic solutions for each area in accordance with established priorities and public financial capabilities. This, once again, will require a key assessment of the impact of individual solutions on public finances and their long-term sustainability. If we take steps, one of the sets of measures, perhaps if we say these 9 measures for tax optimisation, these measures were prepared by the competent ministry, in this part the Ministry of Finance, which evaluated this materially and financially, and was presented on Friday in the Economic and Social Council. Within the framework of this Economic and Social Council, there was a formational negotiating group within which final positions will be drawn up. A few suggestions were made for changes, some suggestions. And of course, once these measures are aligned, once we have a definitive option, it will also be possible to provide a final financial assessment. Similarly, a series of measures in the pension area, where a negotiating group has also been called, have been said to fully harmonise these measures in the Economic and Social Council. And, of course, when these measures are substantively harmonised, the competent ministry in this part will also present final financial effects on individual work areas. Of course, these effects, which have been mediated in the debate on the Economic and Social Council, have been presented so that they can be seen from this. What was the question of participation, I think that the representatives of individual ministries were involved in their areas. I was involved in that part concerning the finance ministry, where there are two measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Minister. But look, the Minister of Finance is creating a financial policy. He also creates it on the outside and is responsible for it by the finance minister. There are different saints. Of course, I do not exclude the importance of the Economic and Social Council here. But after all, some financial effects are clear from these proposals, for example in the area of scholarships, say, 7 million. It is clear that the employers' contribution will increase by 0.8% of the annual increases here. It is clear that the minimum pension will increase, that pensions will increase, that the pension base will be 63%, and that there is now much less. See, already on the basis of a completely simple account under the same conditions, it can be calculated how much this financial effect will be for at least some measures. And the fact that the coalition has agreed with Levi to accept such a financial burden over the finance minister or that you do not have that information, look, I think it's unusual, kind of said. After all, 1.4 billion additional expenditure is circulating in the public. I would ask if you could comment or further say: How much will this financial agreement actually cost citizens and citizens? How will it affect the stability of public finances?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u144	You gave me one number. You were also present at the October session, on the committee, where one number was also given, one calculation, if you remember, almost minus one billion. Yes, of course, on the Committee on Finance, you asked me exactly the same number when signing that agreement and I answered you similarly. If all measures are taken and a maximum quantity is taken and given on exactly one specified date, which was then taken by 1. 1 2019, was an estimate of -0.6 to -1,12 GDP. It was a then assessment made by the Fiscal Council. We're done, and that was, of course, your question of how he's going to tease it in the balance sheet. The thing was, we had 200 million plus. Depends on what kind of action they're going to be. Of course, we can now recalculate within some ranges. We have agreed in this part, and the signature, as agreed, clearly states: the competent ministries will prepare measures, and they will evaluate them in substance and financially. Once we have the final measure or the final set of measures, these will all have to be fiscally sustainable.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings from the distinguished minister, colleagues and colleagues! My question is very old or has an old beard, it has been happening for several years, 10, 15 years, possibly and opens the question of the evaluation of copyright and related rights in Slovenian music creators. Slovenian music creators face this problem to all sorts of creaks and weights, and this question is never answered again and again. In view of the fact that this is a fundamental evaluation of their work, that is, the work that one musician is doing, this question could also be addressed to the Minister for Culture or to the Minister for Labour, but it is within your purview. Slovenian musician faces how his work is evaluated, how his work is evaluated under the Law on Copyright and Related Rights. My question is very simple, and first of all, I'm going to answer: How is the work of authors of Slovenian musical works evaluated by law? To what extent is the law implemented in the field, in practice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u148	Honorable Chairman, esteemed assembly! Mr Primož Siter, honourable Member, thank you very much for the question. The question of transparency in the evaluation of the performances of works of copyright in public media and in public spaces is understood in terms of determining the level of the author's fee to be paid for the use of music. However, I explain that in cases where the author manages his or her rights himself, he or she will agree with the user on the conditions under which the copyright work can be used, including the communication of the author's fee. In such cases, the author himself has agreed on how the user will report on the use of the work to the author. The user must keep an adequate record of the use of the work and report the generated income to the author. However, if the copyrights are in the management of the collective organisation, it is said that if they are managed collectively, that is through the collective organisation of the SAZAS Association, the tariff for the use of the works is agreed by this collective organisation and the representative association of users in the common agreement. If a collective organisation and a representative user association cannot be agreed, the tariff shall be fixed by the Copyright Council at the Office of Intellectual Property of the Republic of Slovenia. The Copyright Board may also decide whether the applicable tariff is appropriate. The author may influence the setting of tariffs through the bodies of the collective organisation, either at the assembly or through a supervisory committee overseeing the work of the collective organisation’s management. The Law on collective management of copyright and related rights provides for the duty of users to inform the competent collective organisation of the use of works. For example, Radiotelevision, Radio- and Television Organisations, or those television organizations, here we do not only refer to RTV Slovenia, they must send the competent collective organisation once a month, along with the broadcasting of works and from the repertoire of the collective organisation. They should also publish these press releases publicly on their website. The market inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia shall be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the provisions on the reporting of users to the collective organisation. The collective organisation must provide the author whose rights are collectively managed with access to the documents and data of the collective organisation. The author may also request the collective organisation to have an overview of the data on the use of works at events or of the broadcasts. If the collective organisation has refused access to documents and data, the author may bring proceedings before the court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We understand that these things play well on paper, but practice is different and has been dragging for a very long time. If I illustrate quite lazily even this music structure, to say the square, if I even hope to give art this economic term, we have 3 parts here. We have this employee or entrepreneur who manufactures his service. On the other hand, we have customers on the market, which are radio stations and public spaces and so on. And we have this one organization in between, which serves as, let's say, an accounting service that looks at what's being spent, how and how it's valued. And now the problem with authors is that, even if they know how much their services are spent, they don't know and they don't have an insight into how valuable this service is. Or if I give the case of one worker who makes 100 bricks a day, he knows he made 100 bricks a day, but in this case he wouldn't know how much he deserves for one brick. This is a problem that occurs among musicians on the music market, if I say so myself. The question that always arises is, in what way does the author actually have an insight into this evaluation, this, I say, accounting service and customers, conclude some individual contracts and agree on how work is evaluated. The musician does not know in what way he has insight into the system of plays, how valuable he is, how many times he has been played, where he has been and in what way. Here is the question of how many market inspectorates are doing their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u152	Mr Member, it is a matter of law that we have the Office of Intellectual Property of the Republic of Slovenia, but which does not have jurisdiction over the above-mentioned issues. The Office shall be responsible for overseeing the implementation of the tasks of collective organisations. To illustrate, the Bureau has control over the exchange between users and authors. Thus, the area of the exchange of copyright funds is illuminated. But he doesn't have the authority to make a deal. The authors have the right to take a look, as I said before, at five collective organisations. After all, I think it's probably not just music, it's the whole traffic of all these five collective organisations at the annual level for 22 million euros. The office controls this part, it also controls the costs and all these matters, but, as I said, it cannot, as I said, judge the heights. It's a matter of understanding each other. I believe that with the last amendment of this law we have highlighted this place of exchange and that we are now on the path of implementing this law as you have just said. I agree that there are still major problems here, but at this point we have the legal conditions for authors to get an overview through collective organisations for the field of performing their works. On the other hand, we have all the tools to further monitor all five collective organisations. However, we cannot, as it is said, set the tariffs for one and the other matters by the Office. But if there's no deal, then I've told you who's the judge of these matters. In short, I agree that there are always problems here in this area. However, I believe that now we have all the conditions to get closer to solving the problems you have mentioned. And I think it's also happening intensely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u154	Yes, thank you very much. Then you bring good news and I will be in the light of the fact that there is really too much grayness in this area, I am pleased to encourage the National Assembly to help the Government take another step forward through the widespread debate in the National Assembly, and I also call on the National Assembly to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 26. 3. 2019, in the framework of the votes. Franc Kramar will ask the Justice Minister Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Minister, other ministers, distinguished colleagues! My question will be based on a question which, according to my assessment of many Slovenes, taxpayers, has in fact sought in the past to make the former social property of property lawful. We know what has happened to this social property since 1991, what procedures have been like, the beginnings, the base, the wild property. Well, then began the tycunization of Slovenia, in which some received very good credits for owning companies where workers then paid these debts and still pay them off today. After all this, I'm sure the banks are standing. The bankers were the ones who ran this whole game, and I'm sure the State Assembly Investigation Commission in the previous term has discovered a bunch of things that I think are based on crimes. And one would expect that procedures are running out here and that, of course, those who received nice salaries at the top of banks for taking responsibility for the good business of banks, well, these banks have led Slovenia to a bank hole covered by taxpayers. According to the data of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the State Prosecutor’s Office, only three legal judgments were issued in December 2016 in relation to this form of crime and in connection with the opening of a bank hole, nine indictments were brought and 54 cases were brought in the phase of the pre-trial procedure. Madam Minister, I ask you: When can we expect an epilogue in other cases against economic and banking criminals? Is there, unfortunately, going to be an obsolescence, and never will the people who were rooting for the bank holes be responsible for their actions?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u158	Thank you, honourable Member, for the question. Certainly, unless I make the same mistake and tell you which legislation has been amended in the near past, in order to be more effective in persecuting what we call banking crime, I would focus on the importance of having specialised sections of the courts established in the district courts, that we have a Specialised State Prosecutor's Office and that we are very promising also from the recast criminal proceedings. Tomorrow, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, in the consideration of the Criminal Procedure Act, novel N, I hope that it will be adopted. This will also result in more effective prosecution, research and evidence of banking crime. In view of the fact that you provided data from 2016, I would like to provide you with data from the 2018 Special Prosecutor's Office, which in 2018 dealt together with as many as 107 banking crimes cases, of which 75 relate to different stages of criminal proceedings, and the remaining 32 are in criminal proceedings. All together, if we assess the damage, it amounts to about €329 million. It is said that there are currently 21 cases at the stage of the judicial investigation against a total of 123 accused natural and legal persons, of which 79 persons were employed within the banking sector at the time of service of the reported offences. The total damage or property benefit, according to the evidence and requirements for the investigation, is around EUR 221 million. Second, there are currently 16 cases against a total of 52 persons in the post-indictment phase, of which 31 persons were employed within the banking sector during the service of the reported offences. The total estimated damage is around EUR 108 million. By January 2019, 13 judgments had been issued, 11 of which were convictions for a total of 15 persons, 10 of whom were bankers. 6 convictions for 7 persons are already legally binding. The total illegal asset benefit or damage in these cases is around €42 million. At the end of 2017, the first criminal conviction for two bankers in connection with the injury to Factor Bank became legally binding, and another bank was also convicted on the basis of an agreement on the recognition of guilt at the end of 2017 concerning that bank. In January, a conviction was issued against two persons who were employed in Probank at the time of the offence, the judgment is not yet legally binding, the State Prosecutor's Office has announced a complaint, criminal sanctions according to the gravity of the act or property damage amount to an estimated value of EUR 1.5 million. In addition to that, 32 other cases are being dealt with in the pre-trial stage. The most common act, however, is evident because we do not have defined banking crime as such in the Penal Code, and the crime of abuse of position or trust in economic activity is referred to in the 240th Article of the Penal Code, and some of the offences of business fraud under Article 228 of the Penal Code. Of course, we face problems in research and persecution. In particular, there is no case law on the longevity of the judicial investigations themselves. The criteria for good banking practice in Slovenia are unclear. Evidence standards are also high, proof of intent is difficult. It is also a lack of interest in the self-initiative investigation of suspected crimes within the scope of the possibility. The documentation is very extensive, it is difficult to obtain data from abroad, and the analysis of the electronic material itself is very extensive. The problem is also that we do not have specific expertise in the field of economics and banking and the specialisation of courts on the treatment of professional banking and economic issues. So we can find that, given that knowledge of professional banking issues in the court is in the process of establishing that we are relatively successful and will certainly also monitor this area, train a lot, educate a lot. However, I look forward to one major step forward, as far as the process itself is concerned, including the adoption of the novel N, which will be held tomorrow in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u160	I have to say, that's very optimistic, apparently. I thank the Minister for this information. I believe, however, that with us all crimes are becoming very complex problems. There is no legal basis, no laws, no experts, we do not have this – the case of Iceland is sobbing, we know what they did to the bankers in Iceland. Most of them are about to pass their sentence today. I believe that we are not qualified, but it seems to me that we should pay more attention to these things, and in particular to adapt legislation, if we have already lost them, we will have a hard time catching up with them. We know that retroactivity in Slovenia does not apply. Unfortunately, I hope that the epilogues will unfold and that these people, who are actually responsible for not only the banking crisis but also the system crisis, will once be responsible for their actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer if you wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u162	Thank you. In fact, I agree with what the Member of Parliament has said. I'm sure we learn from cases, unfortunately. However, I hope this will also help to improve the practice in banks themselves. Finally, we expect a great deal of feedback from the European Commission's announced action against Slovenia. We are talking about the procedure that was initiated against Banka Slovenije in the detection of whether we have invested too much in the rehabilitation of the bank hole, so we will certainly talk a lot more about it. We at the Ministry of Justice will monitor everything and, where necessary, in the opinion of experts, also propose an appropriate amendment to the legislation, as far as this is necessary for an even more effective prosecution of banking crime in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The word is given by Franz Breznik, who will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers who are still present in the Chamber, dear fellow! In this Parliament, I have already drawn attention to policy in the educational process, to the inappropriate attitude towards Slovenian engineers, technicians, masters and not least to the promotion of apprenticeships known by neighbouring Bavaria, where it is somehow the most developed, including Austria, Germany, Italy and so on. I can say that I've been discussing good things for hours and hours. Also in the framework of the apprenticeship laws that we have tabled in the SDS in the previous mandate, I have noted that in addition to apprenticeship we also need a system of so-called active employment policy and also of retraining. The government has started a part of this, but here we find, Your Honor Minister, not to accuse you, but I want to tell you what's going on in the field. If you remember, say, employment agencies even travel masters to some English courses at the basic level. Masters of Science! Then they travel, pay some external contractors for 2,000 unemployed economists to write a better CV. Sorry, we don't need that. Then they travel different operators for different professions to some re-educational processes that have nothing to do with some visa degree of competence, the knowledge the economy needs. The economy – too bad there is no economic minister here – we can assure you this, at this point the Slovenian economy can employ an additional 30,000 people. And part of the cooling of Slovenia will also be from this title, because we do not have the human resources potential to satisfy the right situation on the market. And now look at the active retraining for one of the cases where they went in the direction of so-called CNC developers, which the Slovenian economy needs extremely. The artist was Maribor. From the Maribor Technical School Centre they came to my office, where they wrote me, I can give you all these documents about a completely different process of reeducation as it was written. Five thousand 700 euros was paid by the state for 980 hours of a long-term programme in which they did not educate themselves as a CNC programmer, but for someone who works, that is, a technologist on a CNC machine, someone who only performs a process on a CNC machine. From this point of view, I ask you: Do you, as minister and employment agency, have an active role to play in controlling this? This is also about European money, and control will come. These listeners of this programme have even complained to the European Commissioners, so much so that you know. I'm asking you: Are you in control of these educational processes within the framework of an active employment policy? Thank you very much, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u165	Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words and thank you very much for this question. Maybe in the introduction, I'll give you some information about the active employment policy. The total number of people involved in the active employment policy is growing. In 2018, approximately 31 000 176 unemployed persons were included in the APZ measures, which is about 24 % more than in 2017. The largest number of unemployed persons were included in the training and education measures, of which almost 14 thousand 200 were persons. By means of active employment policy measures, 18 000 67 unemployed persons were employed in 2018 and the realisation of active employment policy funds in 2018 was 63 million. As you probably know, at the end of November 2018, the Government adopted a Roadmap for the implementation of the 2019 active employment policy, a planned funding of 91 million for implementation, of which 35 million are from the Integral Account and 56 million are from the budget. Active employment policy programmes are expected to involve some 34 000 570 people in 2019. As regards the outputs of the programmes themselves, the latest data show that training and education programmes are the most successful programmes for employers in a specific job. This is the Work Test programme, where the output rate was 89% in 2017 and Training at the workplace where the output rate was 78% in 2017. Also successful were the transitions to employment from subsidised employment, such as the Employment.me programme, during the 30 days following the completion of the subsidised employment, 63% of the people employed, the promotion of women's entrepreneurship, data on self-employment conservation completed in 2016, showing that self-employment at the 30th day following the end of the subsidised employment kept 90% of the work involved, public works, on the 365th day following the expiry of the public works – and here the output were the worst – about 34% of all employed. Let me answer your question as to how we're following. We started already in November to revise the active employment policy of all measures. Indeed, I myself have assessed that some of the measures taken in the past, even during the crisis, are no longer appropriate today, and there is an intensive revision of all measures and of the entire active employment policy. However, I would like to say that some of the programmes that, as you yourself have found, have been financed from European funds and last for several years, so that we must, of course, complete these programmes. However, we would also like to accelerate self-employment in this way – already in October we started a pilot project, namely, at the Employment Institute – that all these unemployed people will be treated expeditiously, which means they are invited every 14 days and try to be included in one of the active employment policy programmes. If the programme is not successful in the person concerned, it shall also be sought to include it in another programme. In short, our goal is to empower the unemployed, with a special focus on long-term unemployment and on those with low education, so that they can join the labour market as soon as possible. We are working fast on this, and we will also be working on it in the coming months, and in short, we are actively revising all measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for an additional reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u168	Thank you for some statistics. So €63 million is given by Slovenia for the fact that on the one hand the school system produces people who will never get a job or who find it difficult to get a job because they are incompetent because the programmes have little practice and because they can say that certain programmes have totally disrupted the relationship between science and social science. Just the fourth industrial revolution, artificial intelligence will be needed in the coming years after all the statistics – many professions will literally no longer be needed. It's just from the social sciences, the administrative sciences, and so on, they're going to die. At a time when the Government does not want to introduce or implement a comprehensive dual school system in the field of education and education, on the other hand, you, as minister, are giving €63 million for the retraining of people who, on the other hand, have been trained by the Minister for jobs that are unfortunately not needed by the economy. At times, however, the economy is, of course, also, I could say, at an underdevelopment stage so that all of these could be employed. But look, in this case, it's a suspicion of a crime service. There was a suspicion of a criminal service. Five thousand 700 euros, 980 hours, most of the participants in this programme say that they were not trained at all for retraining the programmer on the CNC machine, but only for the operator on the CNC machine. And they suspect that the Employment Institute has literally taken this money away from external contractors, and this address has given them precisely these European funds for a broader, more complex programme. And on this side, I want to tell you that there are a number of irregularities at the institution, even suspected of services of some irregularities, concerning contracts with external operators that are incompetent. Why do these people not let themselves be educated in companies that are successful in the world markets that have knowledge in this field of CNC structures, but not that they are educated by some external theoretical operators who have not yet seen CNC structures in their lives, say, the latest generations? And here's the problem. Here, I can give you these documents, Madam Minister, please, if you're trying to stop these irregularities. So much for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u170	Thank you very much. I don't know this particular case that you're referring to, so I'd like to ask you to hand over this file. Of course, we will look immediately, and if we detect irregularities, we will also take appropriate action to request this documentation. But I agree with you, absolutely, as far as personnel planning is concerned, it is necessary to start in schools first. It is also a challenge both for the economy and for the government to predict the future of work as to what jobs we will need in the future. Here too, we will try to prepare as many measures as possible to enable workers to improve their working skills, to acquire competences in order to compete in the labour market in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u171	Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u172	If there is at least one part of the economy that needs 30,000 people at the moment to start working in the Slovenian economic system, especially in export companies, in companies that have already won the industry4.0 in their company and where they urgently need a quality, excellent technical cadre See, here we now have the Minister of Education, this will be my next question at the next meeting, what does he intend to do with a fully degenerated so-called dual school system, where it is a pilot project and where the pilot project of the cadre that he gives out is only 4 professions, controlled by someone who has only worked in theory. [[…]] This dual school system, which I also – I will not say – I had some apprentices when I was at Siemens, even in our department at the time. Look, it's the employer who'll be responsible for his own. Who can be more responsible than those who have succeeded in world markets? Not someone who theoretically came from college to some high school, taught there, say, in the case of CNC machines, never seen a CNC machine in his life, never worked in this area in his life. How can such a person either educate or work under this retraining and active policy programme? Here's a typical example. There, millions, more than a billion, are given into the education and education system, not to say that it is bad, but the relationship between science and sociology is completely broken. We in the fourth industrial revolution with graduated philosophers, sociologists, political scientists cannot enter, most of these professions will die out, just because of the entry of artificial intelligence. Everything that will repeat will be extinct and we urgently need quality engineers, technicians, masters, and, finally, apprentices to break through. For the first time, even in your area, Minister, someone who enters the apprenticeship system known by Austria will immediately start paying social contributions, in the pension register, social welfare, not least there will be more health contributions. He'll be entering the labour market soon. One day, the chairman of the BMW administration told me, look, I started here as an apprentice, today I'm a doctor of science, I'm a doctor from the best solitary engine ever put on the market by BMW, and then I finished MBA studies in America, and I'm the chairman of the BMW administration. This is the rate of development of an individual in a company where the highest academic title can come from practice, and this is a typical example of lifelong learning. And that's what Slovenia needs. If we want a breakthrough, if we want a technological breakthrough, if we want to get on the train of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, the well-respected Minister, it is important to cooperate. On the one hand, with the Minister, to tell him which personnel are at the Employment Institute and are unemployed and unfortunately we cannot do anything about them, they have failed, which must be qualified, placed on the market and given support to the Slovenian export economy and the economy, which must make a major breakthrough in the coming years, a higher value added in products, and this is a guarantee of Slovenian identity, for Slovenian survival in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Ms Lidija Ivanuša will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u174	Hello! At the last meeting of the National Assembly, it was said that worthy pensions are certainly the priority of this government, not just one party, but the entire government. An adjective worthy means that it meets certain requirements or needs according to quality. Under the law, the pension is a regular monthly allowance based on pension and disability insurance and provides the beneficiary with material and social security in the event of the age, disability or death of the insured person. The January report of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance shows that it amounts to the lowest pension of 218.26 euros. I wonder why the lowest pension is almost 200 euros lower than monetary social assistance. I hope that I am not the only one who believes that the lowest pension should be as much as the minimum income, i.e. 392,75 euros. If a capable person is able to receive such an amount for work, he may also be a pensioner who is no longer able to work. There is no reasonable argument for the current distinction. On the other hand, we have all those who receive an old-age pension of 40 years or more of retirement age, and the January report of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance shows that it amounts to a guaranteed pension of 516.62 euros. According to the Statistical Office, the monthly poverty risk threshold was €636 in 2017. The threshold for the risk of poverty represents the lowest available income that a single-member household must have in order to avoid being poor. This means that in Slovenia we have the practice that an average worker who works for 40 years or more is sentenced to being poor as a pensioner. His pension is 100 euros below the poverty risk threshold. I hope I'm not the only one in this national council who thinks that every worker who has worked for at least 40 years deserves a decent pension. The only way to talk about the dignity of a pension is by comparing it with the minimum income. Madam Secretary, I'm interested in: What is your opinion on the life of the lowest pension and on the increase in the guaranteed pension? Will pension reform also regulate those two provisions, which are neither just nor solidarity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. In response to your question, I explain that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is preparing a proposal for legislative changes that will lead to an improvement in the social situation of all beneficiaries of pension and disability benefits. Particular attention will be paid to improving the social security of the most vulnerable groups under the pension system. At the Ministry, we have already drawn up the starting points on which a debate with the social partners began last week. The deadline for transmission of the regulation to regulate the content listed is the first half of 2019 in the National Assembly. It should be pointed out that these starting points for amending legislation in the field of disability insurance do not yet constitute concrete legislative solutions, as the proposed solutions are usually changing during negotiations with the social partners. The planned changes in addition to incentives to extend work activity in the form of work or full pension include a rise in the dose rate for both men and women to 63%; a higher rate of care for children; an increase in the pension for 15 years; an increase in the minimum base for the dose of widowhood, family pension; a higher percentage of disability pension in case of disability resulting from injury to work or occupational illness; an increase in disability pension in case of injury outside work or occupational illness prior to the completion of 65 years of age to at least 41% of the pension base; a higher rate of disability benefits. As a result, the increase in the dose percentage will also have a positive impact on the higher social security of beneficiaries of disability, widows, family pensions and beneficiaries of disability benefits. However, in terms of improving the social situation of pensioners, I would like to add that regular harmonisation of pensions and other benefits has already been carried out this year by 2.7% and that extraordinary harmonisation of pensions is expected in December. Its level will be determined in the light of the economic growth found, and more funding is allocated in 2019 than in previous years for the annual allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Madam Ambassador? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u178	I only propose that we hold an extensive debate on this subject at one of the future meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u179	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 26. 3. 2019, in the framework of the votes. Natasa Sukic will ask the Minister of the Interior Boštjan Poklukar and Justice Minister Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u180	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Minister, I hope he'll be here any minute! I'm going to talk about a subject that's something that's not usually talked about here, about a certain aspect of violence against women. About violence against women, which is a major social problem. Of course, we all kind of talk and realize this problem, but we do not realize that this topic is still a taboo in its own way. Tabu is when we get to the area of intimate partner murders or so-called femicide. This is a matter that is largely not discussed in public space, even among experts. We have only one survey in Slovenia on this topic, from 2017 by Dr. Jazna Podrek entitled Intimnopartner murders in Slovenia and their sexual visibility. According to the European Observatory on femicide, the rate of femicide is increasing in some countries, such as Spain, Switzerland, Portugal and, unfortunately, Slovenia. Intimate partner killings of women or femicide are the most common causes of the violent death of women all over the world and even in us. In Slovenia, between 2000 and 2011, 72 women were victims of intimate partner murder, with the proportion of femicide in Slovenia even increasing after 2009. Trials against perpetrators are generally brought to an end by a crime of murder being reclassified to murder. The perpetrator is admitted to some extenuating circumstances when it is clear that the partner or the wife has killed in a rush of passion, as a result of jealousy, in some effect, but that the research by Dr. Support and comparable international research clearly shows that intimate partner killings are by no means accidental crimes or accidents that occur unexpectedly because of some current anger of an unviolent male individual. No, such acts do not occur overnight, for violence is present long before, mentally, physically, and so on. In short, it is generally a final act in the continuum of violence against women and, of course, it would be good for us to recognize and prevent femicide. I therefore ask the Minister of the Interior: Do you believe that more decisive action is needed to prevent and prosecute femicide than extreme forms of violence against women? What has been done so far in this area? How will you train or sensitize professional staff on this subject to make it easier to prevent this extreme form of violence against women? Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador, for your question. No violence is acceptable, including violence against women. We know that, as in all countries, we face violence behind four walls in Slovenia, and in fact this violence is sometimes very difficult to recognize, because events and violence behind four walls often remain behind four walls. The Slovenian police also face violence against women in their work, with the so-called femicide. The police always focus on protecting the victims first, which is actually the most normal. In this regard, the police, when detecting any threats, first protect the potential victim and then do whatever it takes to ensure that the perpetrator of the crime is not hidden, that he does not escape and that all traces of the crime are detected or protected. In doing so, the evidence is those to be collected so that the prosecution of a criminal offence in criminal proceedings can be successfully pursued. That's right. The police recognize this kind of violence behind the four walls, it's also effective, I'll say, it's preparing for it, and it's training. Finally, it cooperates with governmental and non-governmental organisations in the exchange of experience, as well as with other stakeholders in the pre-trial and criminal proceedings. I myself, at the Ministry of the Interior, when I adopted NGOs, recognized quite a few NGOs dealing with such violence or with the prevention of such violence, or with the cooperation of the police with better and more effective protection of victims, both children and women. The police are operating on the basis of the Penal Code. In fact, it is normal for offences to be qualified in accordance with the Predictory and then also in criminal proceedings. The Minister of Justice will be able to say more about this, but I must say that the police, in the form of violence against women, assures me that the tools are appropriate, but it is true that we are always turning too many times away from calling number 113 to keep our eyes closed. And as a society, we must admit to ourselves that violence behind the four walls is something and that in such cases we must act, we must not blind our eyes. And action means calling 911. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u183	Thank you very much. The word is also to the ministers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u184	Thank you. I would have answered, given that the question was addressed to both of you. I would like to say – perhaps you are aware – that we have also set up an initiative with NGOs and will join in amending the Penal Code. At our meeting, we talked not only about changing the crime of rape but also more broadly. And certainly, as far as it turns out, and some have said that some other institutes need to be reformed, we will also pay special attention to this. I would say, however, that our Penal Code, as such, does not provide for a specific criminal offence of femicide or the murder of a woman in a lasting or past intimate relationship, but that it is necessary to point out that the offence of murder referred to in Article 116 of the Penal Code lays down several circumstances, even when a woman takes the life of a former or current intimate partner, makes it possible to punish the perpetrator more severely under this Article and not, for example, under Article 115 of the Penal Code, which provides for the crime of murder, because it is a crime of at least 15 years in prison, because it is a case where the perpetrator takes the victim’s life in a backward manner – and in this case, it is also considered to be a particular abuse of the victim’s trust due to all existing or past connections, and because of its particular negligence. So that we will certainly pay attention to the amendment of the Penal Code, but I would like to say that, earlier in my reply, I have mentioned the Criminal Procedure Act, that then – we hope that this proposal will be adopted tomorrow, the N Amendment adopted by the National Assembly – provides for the establishment of a special implementation group that will deal specifically with what the provisions in practice mean, including the situation of the victim, including in this case, which you have highlighted, and also address what is necessary in terms of training, education for all those who are involved in this procedure in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I was just about to ask you, Minister, an additional question. In essence, you have answered me in advance, and I am very pleased to hear that, as I mentioned, the problem is that femicide as a term is not yet incorporated into our legal acts, if I understand correctly. I hope that I understand you correctly that this redefinition will happen or that the definition of femicide will also be incorporated into legal acts, which will, of course, be the legal basis for the prosecution of this act. Maybe if you confirm it again. I want to know: Will you strive to develop any appropriate strategy in this regard to prevent or limit this crime? Because if we were to take preventive action on femicide, it would probably be at least a minor case, because, as I said, it is a continuum of violence that is already present, and the social services are usually aware of it, they probably call the victims repeatedly on the various SOS phones and so on. This is not something that often happens overnight, but in some cases it can happen overnight. I also want to know: What can the judicial system do not, as is often the case, to question the victims, to spread the so-called guilty victims' syndrome and to justify the perpetrators in the manner that I described them earlier, but to justly acknowledge this status, and to try, from the case to the case, to properly sanction the perpetrators so that we do not reclassify the murder as quickly as possible? So many times possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u188	Thank you. Actually, we have two, one is the Penal Code. Based on the analysis that we are going to be doing with the prosecution, probably with the police and with the NGOs, we will establish all those cases where the problem has proved to be in practice at this time. From your point of view, and also from your perspective, this will certainly be one of the topics of what the final result will be, of course, the profession will also say. The other thing is the Criminal Procedure Act, this novel N. This refers to this second part of you, when you said you were regulating the situation of the victim. On this basis — even now they have become very involved and we thank all those involved in the process of renovating this novel, because you know what fate has been experienced in the previous call of the National Assembly. This special implementation group will be composed by both police officers, the Ministry of the Interior, prosecutors, judges, even NGOs, it is said that the broadest way to look at what will be used in practice, where there will be possible shortcomings. However, I see the great added value of this implementation group in this regard, even with the cooperation of NGOs, also by lawyers, in order to be able to tell what practical use is and where it is necessary for everyone in the process to tell the police first, as well as the prosecution, how to deal with the victims. For the victim now has an essential role to play, as it has been so far, if, of course, the novel will be adopted tomorrow, because its interests somehow advance and are no longer merely collateral damage, as is evident from what you yourself have said about how the victims were treated in such or other procedures. We hope that with the amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act – tomorrow we will also answer all the questions – this will be substantially different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u189	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Franz Rosec, Minister without a department responsible for development, strategic projects and cohesion, Dr Iztok Puric. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u190	Thank you. Nice greetings to all present! In November 2018, the European Commission adopted a strategic long-term vision for a successful, modern, competitive and climate neutral economy by 2050. The title of this vision is Pure Planet for All. Under the scenarios, 80% of electricity will be produced from renewable sources and 15% from nuclear energy. The coal-fired power plants are said to have domestic resources available to each country by 2050 to remain in use mainly as part of the strategic reserve. The transition to a carbon-free society and the abandonment of coal technologies means the costs of restructuring the economy, introducing new business models and leaving coal could also be listed. As a result, the Coal and Carbon Intensive Regions Commission has prepared various measures to help these regions, to move to new business models and new job profiles. So far, there has been no fund for a fair transition, and the European Parliament has already proposed an EU-wide dedicated fund in the framework of the adoption of the European Union's multiannual financial framework. My question to the Minister is: Does Slovenia participate in or report projects for the transition of coal and carbon-intensive regions that could be financed from this fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u192	Dear Chairman! Dear Member, thank you for asking. In the current financial perspective in which we are actively involved, these resources are not defined. However, in the next financial perspective, perspectives 2021-2027, this is certainly an option. In these visits to different actors, especially at the local level, this issue and expectations in the next financial perspective are intensive and different views. What you are asking is certainly linked to the development of Slovenia in the 2020-2030 strategy. Of the five key strategic orientations and the 12 targets, this issue needs to be defined in depth, set as a key focus, and from this out also in the programming phase, which is being developed slowly, as a priority. It would be difficult to say at this point, however possible, but this issue needs to be addressed to this key process, namely programming. [[…]] Our service, the government's development service and cohesion policy, has prepared material for the government on the theme of programming times. At the moment, all ministries are invited to begin preparing documents to meet the so-called enabling conditions, such as documents that will be the basis, and consequently the implementation and draw-up of European funds. This call also identifies holders of individual documents and specific persons in the departments. In 2019, the main activity will be orientation towards the preparation of enabling conditions. It is of paramount importance – and this is what I appeal to in an all-time manner – the interconnection of the resources involved in their preparation with the aim of achieving synergies between the departments, and they also go beyond this cross-cutting coordination of sectoral strategic documents. Once a political consensus is adopted on the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027, a cut will be prepared which will then follow the content that will be further defined by the preparation of these so-called enabling conditions. Once cohesion legislation or agreement on a multi-annual financial framework 2021 has been adopted, an Interdepartmental Programming Group 2021/2022 will also be established. It must be said that the European Commission is 15. This year, in the context of the report on Slovenia, it also presented investment guidelines for funding under cohesion policy in the period 2021-2027, which are the starting points for the development of measures to be financed by European cohesion policy. What I think is important is that our service, as well as the Ministry of Finance, participated in this meeting and forwarded some comments. In particular, I think this latter is important, and we note that there may also be a large drop in funds for the cohesion western region, which will need to be addressed appropriately in the negotiations with the European Commission. Slovenia is also following from these recommendations, which are addressed by the European Commission – our point is that adequate earthquake safety is also important in Slovenia, and energy recovery measures should also include intervention in the field of public sector buildings. What follows from this question of yours is the recommendation of lessons learned from different regions in transition, and given that this is a coal region, for this area, the answer of our service is to be with the competent Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Infrastructure, these guidelines and the recommendations of the Commission. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u193	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Member wishes to clarify his question further. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u194	I think the minister is running out of time. Maybe I'll give him a chance to answer anything else. I am more specifically interested in whether anyone is involved in the ministry, whether a group is already named, assigned to know what they must do, that we will not always be – every time we get to one, I would say, help, or when a role is to be given, we are always chasing that last deadline, never the first day when the deadline begins to run, we always come to the end. So, is there anything we're doing that we're going to be first for once, that we're not always going to be last in this waiting line? With regard to those deadlines you mentioned, can we obtain in writing who are the actors, who are the stakeholders, in time, who is in charge? I'd like that in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u196	I would only finish in the sense that the Ministry of Infrastructure is responsible for coal mining. But what I consider to be the point of your question is to prepare ourselves for the next perspective, so that we do not miss it substantively. As I said, the service has prepared a programming programme to be adopted by the Government, where the exact time frame and defined are also carriers of individual actions within the programme. I don't think there's gonna be an excuse that we're too late, but in time we're gonna start how we're gonna end up, but there's another question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u197	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament shall have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u198	Thank you. Given that this topic is very hot, because Slovenia currently does not even have this economic programme to which we will direct development, and because I think this topic is very suitable for this Parliament, because it concerns several stakeholders, from the Ministry of Infrastructure to the Ministry of Environment and Space, to the economy, to the impact on finance, I propose that, once at any other meeting, a little wider consideration should be initiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Mr Jožef Lenart, Minister for Defence Karl Erjavac, will ask the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u200	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Hello, all present Members! My question is addressed to Mr Karl Erjavac, Minister of Defence, who seems to have left because of other obligations. In recent years, he has left the Slovenian Army every year for one company of soldiers. At Hearing Five. 9. 2018 In most cases you agreed with the then Chief of Staff that it was necessary to eliminate human resources malnutrition in the Slovenian Army. I quote from the magnetogram of your presentation: “I would rather see that we are trying to reach a political consensus here in this House, that we are going into a serious approach, how to modernise our Slovenian army, and the first step is to complete it, it needs to be equipped.” So today, six months after your appearance as Secretary of Defense, you still have an extremely large fluctuation, a greater outflow of soldiers than the tide. Now I want to know: Do you believe that you are fulfilling your obligations and are still advocating this accomplishment, as you assured us before you were confirmed as Minister? According to the latest information from the Government, you are following the decision of the Government of 21. 3. re-ordered salaries of members of the Slovenian Armed Forces with an additional burden and ranking of soldiers according to this criterion. With recent changes, the Slovenian Army's military union points out that by selectively assigning the supplement to the Slovenian Army and its members of the unrest and ill will, the abandonment of the Slovenian Armed Forces units by the soldiers is increasing. Mr. Erjavec, I'm also interested in: Where are the results of your plan to complete and increase the number of members of the Slovenian Army after six months? Do you take them away instead of motivation and acquisition? Are you, as you predicted, capable of taking this army forward and strengthening it, or are you quietly cooperating or intending to follow the programme of the Left and allow the gradual exhaustion and final deluge of the Slovenian Army? We've been counting on you not to give up this time and go to comprehensive solutions. The last decisions of the government indicate that we're having another moment. Our army, our soldiers are still in an unenviable, poor financial situation, because you did not exclude them from the pay system of public administration, as you promised. I also ask you: When will you finally arrange for the basic salaries of soldiers to be satisfied? What do you intend to do in the direction of fair progress and reward for success, so that we can ensure the existence and completion of the Slovenian Army? I'm asking you for a written answer so we won't wait that long until the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by Mr Sonibo Knezak, Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for Mrs Ksenija Klampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u202	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! In recent times, social democrats have been getting quite a lot of questions about the acquisition of the pension age. Recently, a civil initiative has been set up to build up an age that requires a change in pension legislation, with which, if I were to be more specific, this is the sum-up of the study and the service of the military period, also counted during the retirement period without a sum. Although the period is now taken into account at the level of the pension itself, both early and old, but it is not taken into account in the application of the age-retirement conditions, that is to say only 40 years without the age of purchase and 60 years of age. At the same age, however, early retirement may be made if they choose to do so, and their pension may be paid to them by means of permanent pups. Therefore, the purpose of the old pension when the lowest conditions are met is clear: no small children can retire at the age of 60 only those who have actually been active for 40 years. These persons, however, will be able to enforce the acquisition in compliance with the conditions of age for other suitable retirements. You have recently presented us with your team or the Ministry of Labour a proposal for amendments to the pension system, following some of the proposals from the 2016 White Paper on Pensions prepared by the former Ministry of Labour under the leadership of Dr. Anja Kopač Mrak. This White Paper on Pensions also provides for a proposal for a solution, i.e. the alignment of all periods of insurance in the single insurance period, which in fact means that the period of the acquisition of the period would make sense to be included in this single period, which would have the same weight as all the rest of the periods of insurance that the insured person completes in his active age, which would also, of course, solve the problem of the acquisition of a civil initiative. In this regard, I have two questions: Is the Ministry in dialogue and agreement with the social partners inclined to unify all times, as the White Paper on pensions also foresees? Can we expect a solution to this in the first set of anticipated changes in the pension system? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u204	Thank you for your word and thank you for asking. In response to your question, I explain that the Ministry is, however, in favour of an arrangement whereby the periods for which the insured have paid their contributions would be uniform. Nevertheless, I explain that the solutions to this topic in the future change of regulation are not yet envisaged. The condition of the non-compensation pension period was formulated in the previous reform in accordance with the agreement with the social partners, which demanded that 40 years of work be sufficient. Individuals who bought up a certain period did not work during this period and are therefore not covered by this period. The appropriateness of determining the different conditions for retirement based on the distinction between the criteria of work has already been established by the Constitutional Court in a case in which it assessed the constitutionality of the legislation in view of the non-compliance of the accumulated period in the non-compensation period. With regard to the issue, I would also point out that the White Paper contains a much broader set of measures, both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side, which would bring a number of changes, while at the same time pursuing the objective of a sufficient amount of pensions as well as the long-term sustainability of the pension system. Among other things, more stringent retirement conditions have been proposed at the time of the unification of the age, which would normally have counted all periods for which contributions were paid, but would require a longer period of uniformity to fulfil the conditions. The unification of the ministry's age will not be proposed by the first set of changes to the pension system, as I do not believe that the unification of periods without the simultaneous adoption of other measures, which are also proposed in the White Paper on Pensions, is impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the mag. Marko Pogačnik, Minister of Finance Andre Bertonclj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u206	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of Finance! I would like to ask you a question below about the so-called tax reform. The fact is that your ministry or you personally presented to the general public at the end of February the so-called tax reform of your government, which is expected to have taken place in 2019, is said in this year, and one part of the reforms you announced in 2020 and in 2021. It seems to me that it has been reflected in these reforms that you have presented, particularly the reform concerning the payout of the regression. In this reform, you stated that the payment of the regression to the average Slovenian salary should be burdened by both the payment of the income and the payment of all contributions. In fact, there was no Slovenian media that would not report on this, but I would say, above all, that there has been quite a rise in the enthusiasm of both employers and employees. The fact is that some companies in Slovenia have already paid the resres and most companies are paying the reserves in March around the month of June. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: How do you comment on this? With your forecast you have raised quite positive dust, but today both employers and employees are confused, because you have promised the so-called “non-taxable regression” to the height of the average Slovenian gross salary, and today there is no legislation in the National Assembly. I also want to know: What will be the procedure, or how should regressors respond, and what can we expect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u208	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. You have cited the so-called tax reform, we can also call it tax changes, it will be better in the Slovenian book language if that word bothers you, nine measures for tax optimisation can also be taken. It is not that important, it is important that after many years, we have finally received some measures on the table for almost a decade. After that, because the question was explicit, I'm only going to apply to the vacation regression. As part of the measures, yes, we have already announced this set of nine measures for tax optimisation. The Economic and Social Council also held a meeting on Friday. Not often, but on Friday, and we all agreed, all three partners, including all the employers' and workers' interest associations, agreed to support such an arrangement, so that the regress will be completely exempt from all social protection contributions and will also be taken from income. This was adopted unanimously on Friday in the Economic and Social Council, because, as you know, we said that we would agree on all the measures in the Economic and Social Council. We further agreed that this measure, which we had announced for 2019, we did not promise because we cannot, but we announced it – the reality goes first to the Government and then to the National Assembly, then it will be a reality. Of course, we promised to do this quickly, and the Economic and Social Council's agreement was to exempt this measure from the package of all the remaining tax measures. So we, in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, are already preparing to complete the novel of both laws, the two laws concerned, and they will be going to the Government as soon as possible and then to the National Assembly. So I believe that this is a very good measure, which will allow people more regress because the higher base will be higher, but it will be possible to pay – depending on employers' remuneration policy as well as the business performance – up from the minimum wage there to the average wage. Therefore, in this range, companies will decide independently for the amount of the regression. However, what is important is that every euro that the employer sets aside for the annual regression will be paid to the employee, this is the employee. In this part, the State has completely waived, as I have already stated, its contributions and also its income. So it is important, as you yourself have mentioned, a very good, positive action taken in public. So the next step, which is already taking place, is the preparation of novels of both laws, which will then arrive at the National Assembly as soon as possible through the Government. And with this – I hope that with the support of everyone, because this is a good measure – then we can arrange this in such a way that the regression is already paid within the statutory deadline.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u210	Madam President, thank you once again for the floor. Dear Minister, I personally see this measure as positive. This means unloading one part of the income both for the employer on the one hand and for the employees on the other, the fact is that the worker will receive a significantly higher payment of the regress to his current account. You represented these measures yourself, you personally and your ministry. But on the one hand, you have made a mess of the market, especially now that the law is not in the National Assembly. How should companies react? What about those companies that have already paid off this regression? I'm interested in your answer here now. What's going to happen to these contributions? Will they be returned? In what form? When can we expect that? Now a promise has been made on your part, but there is some agreement that this part of the action will be separate and that it will go individually to the National Assembly, but – when? The period of payment of the regression has begun. We're supposed to have all the records paid by June somehow. What do you advise companies now? What will be the message for the employees? Should companies wait for regress payments or should they pay it and then the matter will be refunded? This is where I'd expect your answer, Your Honored Minister. This is the essence of the question of what now and how to go on and what about those who have already paid off the regression for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u212	Thank you. I think I've already answered, and I'm going to explain once again that it's going to be clearer. It is agreed that all measures shall be dealt with in advance and agreed on by the Economic and Social Council. As I have already told you, it is Friday, and today it is Monday, the Economic and Social Council, which does not happen often, unanimously accepted that this measure is being eliminated and that it should be disposed of as soon as possible through the procedure in order to clarify itself. Today is Monday, we are already working on this measure, so we are now talking about a period of a few days for this measure to be dealt with by the Government, and then I think the only right procedure would be to go under urgent procedure to the National Assembly. So now we're talking in a few days to catch this deadline by the end of June. The government will do everything to get these documents ready in time, I'm talking about maybe a few days, maybe this week.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u213	Thank you very much. We continue to ask questions from the Members of Parliament. The following is Mrs Violeta Tomić, who will ask the Minister for Culture mags a question. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, Madam President. My question relates to the great tribulation in which the central gallery of Slovenian works of art in the 20th century was located, this is the Modern Gallery in Ljubljana. In addition to the home institution, the country also established the Museum of Contemporary Art of Metelkova in 2011, and despite the new museum establishment, the Modern Gallery is still budgetaryly in the situation before this expansion. It is said that between 2011 and today, two museum or gallery institutions operate with the same level of resources and with the same size of personnel. This year, however, it is very important for the Modern Gallery, as a major international exhibition entitled "On the Edge" opens on 25 April: visual art in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, and on 11 May the 58th Venice Biennial begins, which runs until September, and here Slovenia will be represented by modernist artist Marko Peljhan. Both exhibitions are extremely important for Slovenian art and Slovenia. The first is a project of cultural exchange and convergence of museum and scientific knowledge in the wider region. The exhibition offers more than 130 artists and artists, archival and library materials from more than 50 public and private collections from the countries of the former Yugoslavia, and most of these works from abroad will be presented for the first time in Slovenia. The next big bite is, of course, participation in the 58th Venice Biennial. This is the world's largest event, where the achievements of modern art are presented. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary: Do you not think that the Modern Gallery and the Museum of Contemporary Art of Metelkova really need a stronger financial injection and more understanding for the international penetration of the Modern Gallery at this time? Can the Ministry of Culture provide from reserve funds, or is it otherwise necessary to implement programmes whose final implementation may be on the line? It is said that these international exhibitions On the edge and in particular national participation at the 58th Venice Biennial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u216	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Thank you for the question, Madam Ambassador. Sort of. Of course, what has now been said is completely true and I fully agree with you. In these days, the case of the Modern Gallery is quite impressive in a more detailed review of everything that is happening, even in the field of visual culture. So with all the means – we are arranging a meeting with the management of the Modern Gallery, I think that, just two hours ago, I also had a brief conversation with the director. By taking this as seriously as possible, with all responsibility and, of course, with all the resources available to us, to agree on the modalities, how the two great, so to speak, this year's event, the event in the organization of the Modern Gallery will also be held. The first pan-European exhibition, so to speak, little for a joke, little for a fact, is of course important not only from an artistic, historical point of view, but also means some review of all that is modern in visual culture in the field of the former republics, with which we are bound by very deep artistic, in particular in the field of visual culture, ties. However, the main focus of this year's interest in the Ministry of Culture is mainly the Venice Biennale. Venice's biennales, as you have already seen, are the greatest manifestation of visual culture in the world and not only some exhibition of everything and everyone, but it is a great opportunity for the country of Slovenia to promote itself through visual culture, through the most modern principles of the giving of visual art in the world, as a country that is seen in the future, which draws from the past, mainly a country that is in the process that knows exactly where we are going and how to get there. For this reason, the Ministry of Culture will aim, in particular, at the second year, and this year, at all means, and will also try to achieve that this becomes the general interest of the whole country, not only of our ministry, because it is, once again, never again to stress, an extraordinary opportunity to promote our country as a community, looked into the future. Of course, we must not forget another such important annual event abroad, where Slovenia has already collected prizes and has always presented itself at a very high level, Ars Electronica, which is also by any chance in our neighbourhood, as well as the Benek Biennials. We will also pay more attention to this, but not to the fact that we leave such presentations to individual galleries or individuals, in fact, to the whole of the country, to one way or another, by their goodwill and volunteering, to the reputation of our country. The processes, to put it this way, have triggered solutions to these issues and I hope that they are almost satisfactory, this year at least satisfactory results and the second year even more.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Madam Members, do you have a request to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u218	I agree with you, Minister, the Venice Biennial is the greatest event in the world. This year, Slovenia will be represented by Marko Peljhan, an artist and researcher working on the border between art, technology and science. Its projects range from ecology and social reflection to tactical media, technology, space research and geopolitics. It's not a small thing. The modern gallery reported real costs to the Ministry of Culture, which is also expected to cover both carrier programmes for 2019. But it is repeated that the Modern Gallery is always getting up to half as much money as it asks for them. This year's Venice Biennial is worth as much as 40,000 euros less than it had two years ago. In addition to touching the Museum of Contemporary Art of Metelkova, the founder of the Public Institute is the Modern Gallery, which realizes the public interest in culture, and the founder of this is the Republic of Slovenia. The founder shall, as a rule, exercise the institution's rights and obligations in accordance with the rules and law, including fundamental issues relating to the organisation of the activities and the way in which the institution is financed. In view of this, I ask you – I know you are new and it is not your fault, but in your opinion – why do you think the state is even establishing institutions that it does not know about, does not care about or is unable to properly care for and thus violates its own legal obligations. Thank you for your opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u219	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u220	Thank you for that additional question. What I'm about to say is not the answer to the question, but it's more my opinion. Sometimes the state does not know what to do with all this, in its view, sometimes menagerie, as far as contemporary art is concerned, neither understands them nor recognizes them as very important to our existence, to our development. Of course, the state can invest in walls instead of sometimes investing in people and in projects and programs. At the time of my ministry, I think this principle is to put a little bit on my mind and, above all, invest in projects and people, because we have walls right now, at least in my humble opinion, I don't know enough. There is a foundation, and above all it is up to us to find, together with the common powers, as I said before, ways to people, to artists, to artists and to these projects, which are talking about today's moment and which also point to the visual field of the way forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Židan, Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jernej Pikal, next questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u222	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister! They say sport is the field of action of each responsible authority, as it has many positive effects on society as a whole. I'm talking about economic, health, social impacts. Sport is also one of those social subsystems that connect us as a nation, and because of the important effects it has on individuals and society, it represents the fundamental right of each individual. Therefore, it is not irrelevant how we understand sport as a country and what role we prescribe it through the prism of public interest. One of the more important issues related to this is how much it is to provide sport, especially at a time when the state treasury is full enough for many to experience its immediate benefits. The financing of sport and the level of public funding required is also discussed in the National Sport Programme 2014-2023. Among other things, this programme states: "To achieve the desired impact of sport on the culture of the nation, public resources will have to be retained and increased to the level they have in developed European countries." This is about 100 euros per capita. According to current data, this is about 50 euros per capita. The resources of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport were raised by a budget rebalancing, which was recently adopted and confirmed in the National Assembly, according to the implementation in 2018 by a good 91 000, which is significantly less than the area of culture or, for example, science, which has experienced almost 20 million raises. Of course, these two additional areas have also received justifiably, there is no doubt about it, but the gap in the area of sport is certainly too great. In particular, the amount of the annual sport programme will be in the eyes, which is less than €3 million for 2019 than in 2018. Although some important developments have been made in recent years to improve the situation of sports and sportsmen and athletes. Finally, after almost 20 years, a new law on sport was adopted in 2017. In this regard, as Minister responsible for sports, I ask: In the coming period, how will you ensure that resources are no longer lagging behind or that they become stronger? Are you planning an internal redistribution of resources to enable sport to have more resources? What trend in financing sport can we expect from you in the future? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u224	Madam Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, the general role of sport. I don't think we can agree any more. Especially in a society such as Slovenia, where at least 60% of people are physically active in one way or another, it is, of course, an extraordinary gift to society and to each individual. So, with regard to the social role of sport, we have no different ideas, and we certainly support it. However, with regard to what was the essence of your question, that is to say, regarding funding, some of the indications that have emerged in recent times in the media need to be corrected or put into the right light. First of all, the funds planned in the budget in the adopted 2019 budget, which was adopted a year and a half ago, were below €15 million – that is the first fact. Secondly, the reality was like you said last year, I think 17.1 million, around there was the realization of the annual sports program. Again, we are talking only about national resources and only about national resources. Then there is a government decision adopted by the previous government, which predetermined the new government in advance or committed that approximately 1% of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport's budget should be devoted to sport, meaning today's figures of about 18.4 million. Now for point four. If you look at the funds planned this year, if you add funds to the European volleyball championship, we will be about 18.1 million or about 18 million and, of course, we can get some more money during the year, so that we can get to the desired 18.4. If you ask me if that's enough – of course it's not enough. And if you ask me why it is, it is because the index of the adopted budget is one and a half years ago and the current balance is 120. And this is also compared to the culture you mentioned, or with science a higher index than both have. What really hurts us the most, and that kind of hurts us all together, is a matter of European resources. That's the second type of source. This is the 2.7 million euros that are dwindling in this year's budget. But they're running out because the project's over. Because he was so planned and programmed from the very beginning. Those who planned it were planning to run until the end of 2018. Of course, we cannot replace all European funds with national funds. And as you know better than I do, actually in the sport area, these European funds came to us most well in the past, because we funded mainly infrastructure, some major infrastructure sports facilities, and in particular one large number of small gyms, which are on one side of the school gym and on the other side of the gym for recreation, sports and so on, later. But with this perspective, which is now in force, it is no longer possible, as my fellow Minister of Culture had previously said, to invest in the walls. So we can no longer invest in the walls in the sport area of European money, which is why it is a mannequin. But this manco has not been since yesterday or since the adoption of the rebalancing of this budget, but it has, in fact, been for quite some time. What needs to be done — not only in the analysis — is to go to the annual sports programme with the current 3.3 million, which, if I look at it correctly, we haven't had at least 4 million for infrastructure since 2010, and then we're raising the issue. Because it is clear that not from European funds in this and not very likely in the next perspective of sports facilities in this way we will not be able to build. So we can run the programs, but it's clear, and then that's the other part that we might be able to touch.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, would you like a request for a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for agreeing with me on this. It is absolutely necessary to invest in sport. We agree here. I hope that you will do something in this direction with the Minister of Finance to arrange for these financiers to make up for what the state cannot give directly to those companies that can give it away. This is said to be the case, in which case I agree with the proposing of one law on the burden of businesses, but, as I said, for all, not just for small financiers. Thank you very much for having already answered this second question, your participation in these great sports events. You yourself mentioned the upcoming championship in volleyball, here I will remind you that there is probably also a basketball championship and a football championship for young people in cooperation with Hungary. I hope that you will also be able to use or help in this area, for this simply makes us bigger. Such sports facilities, however, need to be done whether the funds are directed or not, as this shows a certain culture of the nation. I hope you will also find some funds for these sports facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u228	Thank you very much for this part. I must say that yes, this year will be, and I am very glad that, the European Championship in volleyball will also be in Slovenia, even one semi-final will be played in Ljubljana in September, so this is one very big thing and as a country we have approached it immediately. But what the organizers usually don't realize is that we don't have some kind of bag just like that, and then we can't help you out of that bag just so little, either by grading or anything. This is an invitation to tender, for the annual sports programme is known how things are described. Sometimes we're a little surprised, but with every organizer, so with basketball players and everyone, we try to work, we look for solutions and so on. What we need is some kind of umbrella law on big international sports events. This is something that we would need, because then it might be easier for one shade, because we would have a legal basis that would allow us to react faster and, above all, would involve all stakeholders. As we see – well as long as there are gymnastics, we have no problem – when it comes to outdoor sports, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of the Interior, because it is a matter of protecting events, in short, one species, the Ministry of Defence, because it helps us, say, at the biathlon, and another type of event. We would need, and we will do so, a larger roof law on major international sports events, because this will give us the basis. Now we have experience, we know it will also give us a clear procedure on how things must go, so that Slovenia, which is always a good organiser, can also be a future organiser of several major international sports events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u229	We continue with the question put by Mr Marko Bandelli to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport by Dr Jerne Pikalu and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings, and the Minister! It has been recalled for a long time that the number of registered places in secondary schools and universities is not balanced with the needs of employers in both the private and public sectors. On the one hand, the labour market is faced with the problem of deficient professions and staff, for which there is great demand, and on the other hand with the surplus of highly educated job seekers. Highly educated people in Slovenia tend to remain unemployed, for example, facing a deficit of highly educated personnel in the field of technology and artificial intelligence. Fewer people have been trained for deficit occupations than employers urgently need, and the results of educational measures need to be waited a few years. The situation is already alarming and can even have a negative impact on economic growth. The real picture also shows the situation on the employment portals. The Government has also been calling for urgent changes and the need for systemic solutions to Slovenia's Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise for a long time. The education system is one that must successfully connect to the labour market and respond to its demands by effective measures. This includes the appropriate determination of the number of places of entry in educational establishments. The questions I am referring to you, Your Honor, are: What's your opinion on this? Does the Government consider a modified approach to determining the number of places of registration? What concrete measures have the Ministry taken in relation to the problem so far? When can we expect their effects? Since there are simply no personnel in Slovenia, they must be looked for abroad. This is known not only for Slovenia but also for other countries. The question is how Slovenia will provide the necessary personnel in the race with other countries. The worker will no doubt take into account the time needed to grant a work permit to a foreigner in the choice of the country in which he will work, and if the procedure for issuing a work permit in Germany lasts a month and in Slovenia for a period of three to four months, it is clear that the worker will not choose Slovenia. Workers currently engaged in deficient professions and with the necessary expertise in Slovenia meet the pension conditions, so we need to enable them to continue and train new staff after retirement. Public invitation activities We train locally, which provides training for the unemployed for the most sought-after professions, are commendable. I am aware that she has invited a few more months before the public concludes, but I am interested in the intermediate section and the evaluation of the project. Dear Minister, I ask you: What is the interest in public participation between employers and participants on the other hand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u231	Thank you very much. May I have the floor, Madam Secretary? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. With regard to the provision of the missing personnel from abroad, it would point out a number of measures. In the past, we have simplified and reduced the procedures for issuing a single authorisation for personnel belonging to the Occupational Provisions Regulation, in which the employment of a foreigner is not linked to the labour market. These are so-called deficit professions in respect of which consent to a single authorisation or written approval for the purpose of the employment of a foreigner shall be given without finding that there is no suitable unemployed person in the register. The procedure is thus considerably shorter for professions and regulations. At the time of my term of office, I agreed with the Employment Office of the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen my work on the tasks related to the issue of work permits, which is reflected in a significant reduction in the time from application to authorisation, and the institution in this regard can no longer be considered a bottleneck in the process. At present, we also have two bilateral agreements that make it easier for the economy to access personnel from abroad, from Bosnia and Serbia, with the latter being used briefly. We have also started activities to reach a comparable agreement with Ukraine. One of the important future measures that we are working for is the creation of information points in the country of origin that will enable better recruitment and awareness of foreign staff with work rights, skills, language and cultural characteristics of the environment in which they are put to work. With regard to your question on the Active Employment Policy Programme We can localize that the programme enables the acquisition and strengthening of skills, skills and skills for unemployed people whose existing knowledge or experience does not allow for direct employment in jobs for deficient professions. The programme contributes to the elimination of structural imbalances in the labour market in the local environment. In 2018 a hundred contracts were concluded with programme operators We train locally and 92 unemployed persons were included in the programme. By the end of 2018, 62 persons had completed training, 26 or 41 % had been employed during the monitoring of the contract. This is temporary data which will show better realisation at the end of the project. We note that the interest of employers is relatively small, that even in persons there is not sufficient interest to include, according to preliminary findings due to the required working conditions and low pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u233	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u234	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me from school. Parts of the education system, in particular those parts of which we call vocational education, are already largely adapting to labour market needs. There is one problem, however, that as of 2013 all employers no longer need to report the need to work at the Employment Institute. So that very accurate records, which would really be empirically accurate, about what they really need and what they don't need, we don't have. For higher education we are now working on a module that will monitor their careers for those who are highly educated, so that it will also be clear what they have studied, what they are doing later, how they have not been successful in their profession and so on. As for where I started, that is to say, that part of vocational or vocational education, as it is said, we are already working with both chambers, our vocational education centre is working with individual companies, and, last but not least, apprenticeship has been introduced for this purpose, namely to bring the needs of entrepreneurship and education closer together, in order to work hand in hand in hand in this direction. We cannot expect all parts of the educational system to be, since there are other parts of the educational system that are for the economy — medicine is such a case, medicine with an economy like that has no connection and it would be very wrong to go in that direction. That is why my mantra is a little different: let's encourage people to work in deficit areas. Not to limit it elsewhere, but to encourage it. We can, however, promote with company scholarships, we can also promote with our formal or informal influence, we can encourage by spreading a good voice on vocational education programmes, and this is something that we can contribute much to businesses in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u235	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Member, would you like an extra one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u236	Thank you, Minister, thank you for your answer. I mean, at least that's how it shows that we're going in the right direction, trying to look at it and understand the problem. Because, in fact, the problem of the deficit professions is very serious. Very serious. We can educate the staff, we can do colleges and studies and masters and everything that it is, but that basic part will run out, it will slowly be gone. And we know that I can tell you from the first hand, there are certain professions that are lacking, there are certain professions that we need and we call them from abroad. This is where we must take this step forward, as the Minister has said. I hope that it is now that they will slowly step up the improvement of this system. You know, there's something else going on here. We have certain companies that are somehow doing business just by essentially looking for a workforce abroad and other things. But that's not it. We must allow certain people to come directly to us with references. This can also be the way certain countries have, serve embassies, open up work areas that are lacking, and people can sign up and come up with the relevant documents that we need. There's plenty more to do here, on this. The Chamber of Commerce thinks it's the right address where we can do this together. I think that it is also possible to think slowly about what law on regulated migration, regulated, is said to be precisely that a person gets a job where he comes from. I think that would mean a lot. So much for me. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u237	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Would you like, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, an additional reply? [[No, no, ……]] You didn't challenge the answer, Mr. Ambassador. Is that a problem for you? I'm kidding. We are done with this question. We are moving on to the 43rd question, and this is Mr Bojan Podkrajška's question. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u238	Thank you, distinguished President of the National Assembly, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers! My question is for the Minister of Culture in the Republic of Slovenia, concerning the restoration of cultural heritage throughout Slovenia. The distinguished minister had already answered one other question before, and I have seen the sentence that many times we can no longer invest in the walls. But let me begin by saying that our cultural heritage is our rich past, our present, as well as our Slovenian culture, we can build on our cultural heritage built by our predecessors. So, Minister, I know you're very short on this job, and I'm not going to blame you right now, but I'm still asking you. I must say that in the good four or the bad five years you are the fourth Minister of Culture, that today it is you, I will not comment, but that ministers change so often in this department, I do not think it is in favour of Slovenian culture. Dear Minister, I ask you: Will our cultural heritage, which is rich in the Republic of Slovenia, receive more attention with your ministry, with your professional colleagues? I believe I know a few of them, too, that you have some very good professional associates, but most of the time when you talk to them, they get stuck with money. That's why I'm also interested in: How is the restoration of Slovenian cultural heritage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u239	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u240	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Commissioner, for this question. Maybe we didn't get along well enough before when I said we couldn't invest in walls anymore, I was talking about new buildings, new galleries and stuff like that, about museums of modern art. Some of these objects are now more than alone, without programs, without the right content. In that sense, that was said. As for the protection, restoration, restoration, and restoration of all that has come to pass, such facilities are, for example, only under state protection, more than 300 in Slovenia, more than 8 000 such facilities of any kind under the protection of local communities and so on, so this is one sphere which is of course crucial importance for our people. It is true, however, that in the last ten years, in the years of the so-called crisis, this has been more than left to decay. Nothing was going on at all, only a state of emergency was maintained, if that was even possible. So now, with one new energy, new steps really need to be taken to rebuild and maintain all these vast and priceless heritage that we bear as a nation in the name of not only our ancestors, but also our successors. Just before I say so, the law, which is officially called the Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, is popular with this law in the public domain called the cultural euro, which will be all that you are talking about and what you are rightly concerned about, also allow – a more comprehensive approach to the restoration of the building cultural heritage, the basic cultural heritage and also the intangible cultural heritage. Investment maintenance works, so to speak, run smoothly now in our ministry. Just a few of them, because I know you're coming from those places: we're rehabilitating a certain part of the town on Ptuj, we're rehabilitating the castle of Borl, we're restoring the avalanche in the cultural home of Montenegro, we're restoring the facade of Prešeren's house in Vrba, we're negotiating with the landowner, we're also going to buy up the surrounding land, we're restoring and repairing the roof on Fran Salecski Finžgar's birth house, Dornava, Šribarski turn There are a lot of things that are now really urgent. At the same time, cultural heritage must also take care of all historical material, so to speak, for archives. That is how our priority is now to rehabilitate and rebuild the Landscape Archive in Maribor. Mostly, it's a lot of work. Now, with new means to say so, in the newly acquired ones, and also with the law, which, once again, is just before the present, we intend to take a more creative approach to reconstruction and also to revitalize everything you have talked about. Let's say, as an example, I'm going to the Otoc Castle on Wednesday. [[Lapsus linguae. Minister of Culture Mag. Zoran Poznitski is in the process of repairing himself, talking about the castle Snow White.]] to discuss with local communities, to think together and think about how we will be the Otočec Castle [[Lapsus linguae. Minister of Culture Mag. Zoran Poznitski is in the process of repairing himself, talking about the castle Snow White.]] , which was a pearl, revitalized and in one way inhaled him again one new life. So we keep a close eye on what's going on. Not only will we put out the fires by saying, or preventing the flood, that I am even more accurate, but we will actively restore, that we will revitalize, in particular, all that, in the principle of cultural tourism and all that is so huge, so to speak, the entire project in the territory of our country also foresees with the technologies of the 21st century. So new ways of presenting old values and so on and so on and so on and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u241	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Member of the Commission. Complementation of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u242	Thank you once again for the floor to the distinguished Minister for the first part of the reply. I'd say your word is in God's ears. When you talk about the law, let me remind you that three years ago, in the previous term, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, the then minister – I think she had a law prepared to go to 200 million in five years to rebuild cultural heritage. Unfortunately, the government, back then, couldn't make it through. I think he strongly opposed the Minister of Public Administration at the time – in the previous government, that there would be no mistake. I think that in Slovenia we have 3 000 sacral objects and that throughout the country people living in that place, with very hard hands, are reviving these objects. When you come as a visitor for the first time in a place, you see after the restoration of this sacral facility, how people live with this place. When a stranger comes to our homeland for the first time and looks at these sacral objects or these cultural objects, which are our cultural heritage, they get some impression. I know, I believe that you have a good intention, so, once again, I am concerned that with this proposal you have, you can get it through the coalition, through the government, and that sooner or later we will be able to see it in Slovenia, when we go after Slovenia – I will not now talk about my place or one facility – that these objects that are failing will begin to be restored. However, you have previously found that for many years no euro has been invested in certain objects. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u243	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u244	Thank you. I think I made a mistake before; it was a lapsus; it was not the castle of Otočec, but it is the castle of Snow White. The day after tomorrow. Apparently, I'm already on that side of spring, and the snow is no longer coming out of my mouth. Oh, yeah. Of course! Everything you said is true. Of course it's true. However, I think that within the coalition and within the government there is now one atmosphere, one mood, which is still quite fond of all of what I have been talking about. So I don't see any problems, things are more uncoordinated [[…]] And I'm not the previous minister, I'm the current minister. I'm not the five ministers who were, I'm the minister who is now. And as far as I'm concerned, we're going to do everything we can and everything we can to get these things out of the way. Maybe even in your home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u245	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This brings us to question number 44. Lord Boštian Koražija, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u246	Your Honor, thank you for your word. I have a question for the Minister of State, Dr. Alexandra Pivec. Residents in the valleys of the river Thinking and Suchodolnica have for some time or for quite some time been pointing to the fact that the growth of hops is increasing rapidly. The problem of hops is essentially the spraying or spraying of plant protection products and also the removal of hops with plastic ropes. The most intense spraying takes place in June, July and August, and also because of the geographical special characteristics, it occurs that these droplets of plant protection products are very slowly drying or when the wind blows over the valley, then these drops are carried forward in the valley and the valley is actually contaminated. In fact, an increase in respiratory and skin disorders, including allergies and, unfortunately, cancers, have also been observed in this region or in this region at that time. The advice of the National Institute for Public Health also recommends that windows be closed at the time of spraying, that 5 hours be free of air or that we stay indoors. The great additional problem that hops pose is the contamination of the earth with these plastic ropes. Since farmers generally decide to cut waste or waste themselves in terms of hops, this hop is in fact also full of these plastic ropes, which unfortunately land back in the ground and contaminate soil or soil. Now I have a question for the Minister. I'm asking you: How do you intend to ensure the constitutional right to a healthy environment for residents in the valleys of Thinking and Soccer, in which inappropriate placement of permanent plantations of hops and resulting treatment of plantations with plant protection products that do not take into account specific geographical conditions of growth? How often was monitoring the use of plant protection products in the area carried out, and what are the findings? How often is controls on the removal of hops carried out, and what are the findings? Is it possible to prevent the use of plant protection products and to remove those who are more dangerous to health, and will you do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u247	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u248	Dear President, honourable Member, Mr Korazzi! In our case, we do have control over the use of plant protection products by the Food, Veterinary and Plant Protection Administration, which acts as a body within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Data are collected on the annual quantities of substances, but at the level of the country and not at the level of the individual user or not at the level of the individual crop or agricultural land, as this would in fact be too demanding and also technically difficult to implement. However, any individual using plant protection products is, of course, obliged to keep records of the use of plant protection products and is subject to inspection. Thus, at the request of the inspection service, these records must also be made available or accessible to inspection services. However, data on the sale and use of the main types of pesticides recorded at the country level after years show that plant protection products are shrinking year after year, which, of course, is also the case with European policies and then with national policy. Official controls in accordance with the Plant Safety Products Act and the Regulation implementing the Regulation of the European Council and the European Commission concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market shall be carried out by phytosanitary inspectors at the Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Safety Inspection and shall be deployed in 10 district offices, together with 29 phytosanitary inspectors. Most hops are indeed located in the area covered by the Regional Offices of Celje and the Regional Office of Maribor. The number of hop growers operating in these areas is 106 for the target area and 11 for the maribor area and as far as controls are concerned, I have prepared data from 2015, 2016, 2017, showing that for approximately the same number of inspections – it is said that about 12 hop sites are examined in one year – and from 2015 until 2018 the number of regulatory decisions issued falls dramatically and criminal proceedings fall further. If there were 12 such procedures in 2015, let's say, in 2018 we recorded only 1 more criminal proceedings, which suggests that the use of plant protection products is also being reduced. Then the sampling of green parts of plants is carried out, and these hops are said to be carried out during the vegetation process. However, the purpose of such sampling is to verify the correct use of plant protection products by the user. Here, however, checks are carried out on the prescribed culture, the correct use in relation to the environment – as you are talking about – the verification of the identity of the entries in the user's records, whether this is indeed correct and or whether the use of those means which has been misled in the register of use of registered plant protection products in the disinfection of the seeds and the verification of the implementation of the control measures are carried out. Each year, hops are also included in the sampling of green parts, and in 2017 three samples of hops were taken in the area you are talking about and no discrepancies were detected in all three. That is, with the prescribed quantities prescribed by the Regulation. As far as the emphasis on air analysis is concerned, which is why you asked. In the inspection procedures, the crops used primarily for human consumption shall be sampled and the green parts of the plants referred to in the previous point checked. As far as air analysis is concerned, this is not carried out in any country in the inspection procedures, since it is only a sampling or a problem of air presence at the time of spraying. However, these research and projects are being carried out for the purpose of some research needs and are being carried out in Slovenia for this purpose by the National Laboratory for Health, Environment and Food. As far as the rules are concerned, a number of expert discussions have been held, including with stakeholders, and so far there has been no need or willingness on their part to change the rules. It is true, however, that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food continues to invest a great deal of money in the purchase of new applications and equipment for the introduction of plant protection products, which limit the area, to the extent to which it sprays, which means that it is the smallest.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u249	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Member of the Commission. Complementation of the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u250	Thank you. Thank you for your word. I'd point out the problem for them, too. I have another question: Do you also have any analysis or research on the fingertips in this area? Are there many ingredients of these plastic ropes or PVCs? And one thing is also the one they warned me about, but I also specifically asked myself and talked to people. The problem is that, in essence, this Article 7 of the Regulation on the correct use of plant protection products, which should be known or dealt with by farmers or producers, is that public institutions should at least be informed of the plant protection products they use and when. Many times the problem is that they tell you when, but they don't tell you what plant protection product they're using. As a result, gardeners or farmers do not know what these periods are like. Also, when should their food be most suitable for consumption, since this is then all determined or allocated due to plant protection products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u252	It is true that Article 7 of the Regulation on the correct use of plant protection products discusses this, the duty of the user of plant protection products, the notification of schools, kindergartens and establishments in the environment and these procedures must be carried out in accordance with this Article. In cases where it is not properly reported, applications are expected because the inspection is carried out by random checks and may fail to do so in these random checks. In these cases, we will also carry out extraordinary checks when it is found that stakeholders in the local environment are not informed. However, it is only for lands bordering on kindergartens, schools, children’s playgrounds and sports courses, health facilities, retirement homes and other such facilities. The owner shall inform the operator of the plant protection product at least 24 hours prior to the use of the plant protection products, indicating the name of the plant protection product, the place, the method, the date and the estimated treatment time. This also provides an opportunity to learn about the withdrawal age and the impact of the plant protection product concerned or the plant protection product used. We don't have data on these plastic remains, because this inspection, as I said before, doesn't record it. We are looking at the green parts of plants and the usefulness of the product itself, which is used in food. But I know, but lately I have been aware that this is a problem, and I certainly need to think about how to deal with it. And it is true that the future period, too, is said, which is linked to the financial perspective, is extremely tightening environmental conditions and that a number of regulations, including what we are talking about today, will probably need to be rewinded, revised and prepared to see what environmental conditions are extremely acute. Of course, I agree that we must follow that course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u253	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We're moving on to question number 46. Mr. Jean-Mahnich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u254	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues! Mr Minister, Slovenia this year marks the 15th anniversary of the entry into NATO, which you also in some way marked last week in Brdo pri Kranju. We know that in Slovenia it is because of such and different statements, because of such and different media propaganda, and also because of the very pro-Russian orientation of your previous government, and also in some way the opinion and sympathy to NATO that they are extremely negative. Instead of using this 15th anniversary for me, like the other countries that entered NATO at the time, to give citizens and citizens some idea of what the connection is, and above all, what the link NATO is not. To deny what the media do to people daily, how NATO destroys the northern part of Africa, how the relationship then destroys the Middle East — nowhere is practically present there, there is another thing that individual Member States do — but what the relationship does or does not do there. In short, instead of taking advantage of this 15th anniversary to have events throughout the year that would alert citizens and citizens to the importance of our membership in relation to NATO, how important it is that we are part of this international coalition, which is the strongest military alliance in history and which is based on collective defence, we miss out on a unique opportunity. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, together with the Minister of Defence last year, you should make a plan to use this year to promote NATO's relationship, to promote values such as freedom, security, democracy, which connect this relationship and on which this relationship is based, you have simply missed this opportunity. On Brdo pri Kranj you have invited some Members, Ministers, former Members, former Ministers, to conclude the matter with a few speeches and a round table, and nothing will happen. When we discussed this on the Defence Committee and asked the Minister, at that time something was saying that something was likely to happen, but when you look at, say, the events that we are marking on important anniversarys are actually events that have been going on for a year or more – if we are talking about an event that has been going on for a long time. Here, instead of being proud, instead of celebrating the whole year, we will of course sweep it under the rug, as if we were embarrassed, as if we were ashamed. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary: Why such a relationship with NATO? Why did you miss an excellent opportunity to mark the 15th anniversary of membership in this alliance as appropriate?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u255	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u256	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor, I think you have been misinformed or misinformed. Neither the Ministry of Foreign Affairs nor the other ministry, especially the Ministry of Defence, have forgotten the great importance of NATO, have they overlooked it and, of course, have they failed to argue that at the 70th anniversary of this defence union, in which we are now 15 years old, they will not be marked in different ways. Let me give you some information. As you know, the central event with domestic and foreign guests at the 70th anniversary of NATO and the 15th anniversary of the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into this alliance was indeed at Brdo pri Kranj, but this was only a central event, one in a series of events prepared this year by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and our network of embassies, namely diplomatic and consular representations abroad. For example, before this central event, we participated in an event in Brussels, which was also attended by former Minister Dimitrij Rupel, who I also took part in, and will continue to do so. At this event, where we celebrated this anniversary in Brdo, the important anniversary of NATO, we also had a special exhibition at the 15th anniversary of membership, we had a very important round table where distinguished guests from abroad and from home, namely former Secretary-General Nate George Robertson and current Assistant Secretary-General Nate Camille Grand and many of our experts and those who participate in NATO missions. I don't know how else to say this, but obviously you don't follow public statements, not to follow other events where whenever NATO comes into question, the importance of our alliance is that we have been involved in this union of equal democratic and economically most developed countries, regardless of their past, history, and have been able to establish this mutual security, political and military conscience and responsibility. I also stress the importance of sitting at the table with important big partners, with the most influential countries in this world, and that Slovenia has its voice there, presenting its arguments and participating. We are very often stressing this, in fact, we are stressing this, as I am stressing, as the Minister of Defence, as well as someone else, how very successful we are Slovenians in NATO missions abroad, where we are recognised by this all-time alliance. I really don't know where you get this information, whether I'm not stressing it or not celebrating this anniversary of this defensive relationship. I think that in the coming weeks you will be able to catch an event, to attend it, but certainly to say that, as the foreign minister and the ministry I lead, we will also make it clear in the future that we have entered into this important relationship on the basis of the referendum will, that we remain a solid, reliable partner and member in it and that we will continue to work constructively in it, and that we will also apply certain fundamental values that you, of course, have thought about, and that we will not give up in doing so. So much for that answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u257	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u258	Mr. Cerar: Why is it not at the 15th anniversary of joining the union then the main national celebration either in the Republic Market or in the Congress Market? Why, for example, in the upper classes of elementary school, do we not devote at least one school lesson to mark NATO membership and to transfer to students and students what NATO’s relationship is? Why aren't the brochures published? Why is it that local communities are not drawn to participating in NATO’s promotions this year? Why did you not connect with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport in this area? Why didn't you connect with the Ministry of Defence, where they have many opportunities to present where they constantly represent the Slovenian Army to also present the NATO liaison? This is what I'm talking about, Mr Cerar, as an appropriate label, but not your statement, wherever you are, where half of what you say does not play, the other citizens, we know, maybe 200, 300,000 accompany the media. Look, it's not appropriate to mark! You spoke, we're stressing the meaning of the relationship, nato. In words! What about in action? In your government there is a battalion of fewer members and members of the Slovenian Army, after defence spending we are at the bottom, after the structure of the defence budget we are at the bottom. Is this a suitable celebration of the 15th anniversary of NATO membership?Oh, my God! This is what I'm talking about, Mr Cerar, not some celebration with some famous guests in Brdo pri Kranj, far from citizens and citizens. You have every procession there in the Congress Square. Even in matters of such immaterial importance, in a serious case that was decided by 66 percent at the referendum, this is how you act. I follow, Mr Cerar, and when I follow, I see that there is nothing out of these words and from these actions of yours. And once again: What are you gonna do? And above all: Why didn't you go this way, like I said at the beginning?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u259	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, it's your word again.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Mahnic. Your party is known for not often attending key national events, organizing some of its celebrations, and you also wrote down one contribution that went public: Why will I not be at the farce when the Republic of Slovenia enters NATO? In short, you said you would not attend an event on the Hill or elsewhere. I think that's what's questionable and rude. You don't show any respect for what you think others don't. And you're wrong, we're showing it! But not that way. You say what to do – a parade. You'd like a military parade, probably. That's not what I'm up for. I advocate decent, Slovenia appropriate, our constitutional position appropriate and respectful mark also membership in NATO. I have always advocated taking this membership seriously, even when I led the previous government. Don't hold what you said. Indeed, in the previous government, at the beginning of the mandate, because there was still a severe crisis, we had a very poor military situation, we had improved it every year for the past four years, we had allocated more and more resources for defence. Of course, that's not enough. It is necessary to devote so much to enable the military to modernise, strengthen and continue to do so. But we have already shown that attitude in the previous government, and we will also, I am sure, in this government. You say, in words, in actions. In action! We've shown it in our actions, not just in words. You're talking about some processions in the Congress Square. So you're insulting those young people out there who are protesting for a healthy environment against catastrophic climate change. You're protesting against the gathering of our young people, not least you're alone in this generation, but you're ashamed of it. I don't agree with that. I agree, however, that we must mark a decent anniversary of our entry into NATO, and that is what we are doing. We have done so by means of a central event in Brdo, we will do so with further and other features of this event, various ministries, and in particular we will do so as I have said, that we will continue to strive for Slovenia to play its role in this direction both in its missions abroad, where we are highly valued, as well as in the modernisation of the army, where, of course, the leadership of our defence forces, the army itself, its leadership alone, must carry out its professional and other tasks, and the government must provide adequate financial and other support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u261	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Member of Parliament, procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u262	Mr Cerar, when you talk about what is typical of our client, see, for our client, the main thing is that there is already 30 years and another 30 will be, and your customers will not be anywhere after the next elections. I propose, Mr President, that the debate be held on the failure of Minister Cerar to answer my question. What you take back, as far as the meeting for climate change is concerned! I think it is right to point out that I do not agree with the fact that the left political option has taken this meeting. However, as far as the procession is concerned, I did not aim at such meetings, but at those organised by the State, unless, in your opinion, the State has organised a meeting against climate change. But then I think we have a problem somewhere else. How did you, Mr Cerar, in fact increase when you boast – from 0.94% of GDP spending on defence to 1%. That's a real achievement! That's true for clapping. I believe that when you were Prime Minister and now that you are Foreign Minister, you have been told a little differently. If, Members of Parliament, I believe that you are so much more. I don't know where you see some parades. I can say that I attend national celebrations when I don't have a celebration in my local environment. But you will not see me on 24 June evening in the Congress Square, because I am celebrating with my constituents and voters because I am invited to a celebration in my local environment and on other occasions. I still believe that you have not adequately prepared a plan to not take advantage of the 15th anniversary of NATO's entry into the union, so that we can turn this trend around a little bit to the public opinion, which is also about NATO's relationship – as we have already seen – and in closed sessions in the previous term and not least to any open one when we had the topic about Russia and the relationship – because of Russian hybrid warfare, which is here in Slovenia – read some Sowe report – noted. In short, as a result of all this, the President, I believe that we are having a debate, but at the same time, the invitation to you, Mr Židan, may be important for the 15th anniversary. If there is any time, I see no reason why even in the framework of the National Assembly there in the lobby we would not have a celebration and a ceremony, given that it is a practice at some other event.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u263	Thank you, Member, for your procedural proposal. We're voting on him tomorrow. On the other hand, come to the office like everyone else. We're moving on to question number 47. Mr Vojko Starovic for Minister Rudi Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister, when we met at the hearing on the appointment of Minister, my question went in the direction of how you see how you will increase the efficiency of the public administration. Because we think that the efficiency of public administration depends heavily on the well-being of the whole society. The World Bank's extensive research on capital in the 21st century, covering 120 countries in the world, has shown that the impact on the well-being of each country is the greatest influence of the institutions and their operation. And that's 80% of the impact. For Switzerland, 84% of the impact was calculated. I'm talking about developed countries, in less developed countries, they can have greater importance for natural wealth, they can have equipment. So this tangible capital, when I speak, has much more untapped capital in more developed societies. This is the knowledge and competence of people and their commitment, the functioning of the rule of law, the functioning of institutions. And also the decommissioning of all procedures that unfold to be simplified so that they can unfold quickly and smoothly. Thus, it has the greatest impact on the capacity of the country, the development of the state and the well-being of citizens – legal institutions. Here is the great importance of your ministry, which is for development and public administration. This is also the case, we need to know that for the highest results, the public administration needs to have good teams. It must have a good way of working well and efficiently, and those who run public administration and are responsible for individual resources must also have the tools to create effective ones. This also means accepting and replacing, transferring and also forgiving those who do not meet the expected standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u265	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your question. Mr. Secretary, your word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u266	Thank you very much, President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The honourable Member, of course, I remember that day and today, after six months, I can say that it is on the one hand harder to answer this question than then, because man knows something more at that time. And the more you know, the harder it is. On the other hand, it is easier, depending on how we deal with problems. I have worked long enough in the public administration, but in the public sector, I hope to say that I know it and I do not agree with the the thesis that public administration is one cost, a non-digestion and an impact on public finances and there is no effect on it. Unfortunately, this is happening, and this assessment is taking place between citizens and citizens, and, of course, as you mentioned in your question, which I also received in writing, politicians also speak in a way that is actually unusual. We are also a public administration to politicians, and I think that politicians should ask themselves earlier what we have done to make this public administration more effective. Perhaps now I will surprise you a little from the other end how to start solving or increasing the effectiveness of public administration. Because there is a single system measure here that we will now find that the public administration is currently not effective and then we will take a systemic action and it will be quite effective tomorrow. There are many, many smaller steps. I will now focus on one – the accessibility of public administration services to citizens in the territory of Slovenia and then, of course, citizens measure the effectiveness of public administration. In the past, the country is in some euphoric view that through information and digitisation we will now be doing just all the services offered by this country in this way. It has abolished many services throughout the country, offices, a wide variety of places where citizens were able to receive services from that country. Not to say how it was with the abolition of tax offices and what a revolt it was all over Slovenia and many others. I myself faced the pressures of coming to the Ministry, starting to abolish as many local offices as possible, administrative units, and I resisted. I said that as long as I'm in the Ministry, the local offices, the administrative units, we're not going to close down, we're probably going to open another one. Here I mean, this is one of the segments of the efficiency of this public administration – accessibility. On the other hand, we need to educate and empower people to use these services as much as possible through the electronic media we are talking about. For example, only about 40 percent of the population there communicates with the country or with services in this way, and here is our focus, including through the Administrative Academy and many other programmes, to bring this opportunity to the citizens in this way. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention here, because, on the other hand, in this medium, I would like to say to him, management or whatever else in the entire public administration is spreading this spirit, how powerless they are, how rigid this system is and how nothing can be done. Everything is possible, of course, this system does not limit anything to anyone if it is competent, if it can lead a team that it created or that it creates and is just excuses for incompetence and we have problems here. We don't have a so-called middle management in public administration. We need to set an example for this in the economy and why we should not transfer this experience from an economy where they know and control it to the public sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u267	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Member, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u268	Yes, thank you very much. That's the end of what you said. The problem of this middle management – for example, I was constantly faced with it. Otherwise, I worked my whole life in the economy, running economic operators, and I know how hard it is and how hard it is to put together good teams. But this is the basic work of all leaders — that they make up a good team that can do their work competently. But my question to you was, as a systemic approach to education, to growth, to the choice of competent people and to become a public servant, so to speak – for example, in France they have very rigorous schools through which these people must go to become a respected person. And by respecting the country and fulfilling our roles, we should be exemplary, not often missing. Another thing that kept me going was that a bad worker can't be forgiven in public administration if he works as hard as he does under the rules — right? And I also worked as the president of the Senate in a court where we had work disputes. In all cases, I have decided for the benefit of the work organisation because if the work organisation has fallen for someone – but there have been far more difficult laws in those times than there are now – there must have been something wrong with it. I'm the one who was in charge of the procedure. That's what I'd say: Where are the criteria, ways, approaches to making this easier? That was my basic question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u269	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u270	Thank you very much. There are also opportunities in the public administration, except that we do not use them or this so-called quota, which is a scarecrow in the public administration and, on the other hand, the anchor, so that employment does not go wild, may be some restriction on the transfer of personnel between individual ministries or individual services. At the Ministry of Public Administration, this transition is very much encouraged and we set an example ourselves. The Ministry of Public Administration has had a number of people working elsewhere in public administration, not criminally or otherwise. Also came at this time, at least in the last six months, even a few people to the Ministry of Public Administration from elsewhere. So you can do that. It is quite a fama that this transition cannot be carried out in practice – yes! – and in this way, of course, good teams can also be created. One very important element in this training of people to lead and create competences is our Administrative Academy, which is good. Last week, I was visiting the Minister of Public Administration in Austria and I saw how well our Administrative Academy was working with the Austrian Administrative Academy and that, in the last period, it has also turned from an interpreter of laws to a very practical education. So, here's a system where the state or public administration can educate the staff for what you're talking about. Of course, it is also very important that the selection of staff is very important when it comes to hiring or appointing people to leadership positions, and most of the time these competences for the management, management and ability to create teams are neglected, so that they are not given so much attention. I don't know, I don't hope right now to predict what they have in Europe at some point; so, some very rigorous procedure that a person can even get a job in public administration. They know him in Austria, too. I know France, as you mentioned. We did not go our way at this point in this direction, I think there is enough knowledge within this public administration that can be passed on to people and in this way essentially raise this management level of middle management in public administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u271	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. First of all, you have the word Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec – a question for the Minister of Defence, Mr Karl Erjavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u272	Thank you very much, President, again. Dear Minister! The story with the military training at Poček is almost like a ravine of a snake. The dissatisfaction of the inhabitants of the region and the Municipality of Postojna is so great that they are, in fact, already literally desperate. It went so far that, in fact, the municipal council of Postojna concluded that the exercise should actually be closed. Activities that bring together the Slovenian Army on the one hand, mainly in cooperation with other armies.Nato Pact have a lot of negative impacts on the environment and also on the people living in the area. Training with light infantry weapons, heavy mechanical engineering, tanks, artillery, aviation and so on is thus carried out. Above all, it is funny that the Slovenian Army is using weapons in the exercise, which are completely obsolete and useless. For example, only two cases; the M-84 tanks, which are a copy of the Soviet T-72, almost half a century old, are without upgrades and, as such, are also completely inappropriate, useless both for NATO missions and in the first place for the defence of the country, and the 155 mm tractors, which are slow and therefore also light targets, such as air action. So it's essentially a pretty useless exercise that's being done there and let's face it that Poček is really just a casino for the pact; and it's a very expensive and dangerous casino. Not only are these noises caused by ammunition and overflying aircraft, including F 16 coming from Avian, but they are probably the smallest problem, but mainly as a source of drinking water to Malni, from which more than 20,000 inhabitants are supplied with drinking water in the area. At the end of 2017, the Constitutional Court decided that the Government did not take into account the two negative opinions of the Environment Agency when putting training facilities into space and repealed the Regulation on the State Spatial Plan for the Central Training Centre of the Slovenian Armed Forces Postojna. Nevertheless, the activities are continuing and the number of exercises that are taking place in this area is not actually falling, but is increasing, and these are still very intense. Just a few days ago, the Lipizzaner campaign ended. That's why I'm asking you: When will MORS listen to the Municipality of Postojna especially to the inhabitants and begin procedures for the closure of the training centre at Poček? What will MORS stop with the retaliation measures, I am specifically talking about the non-financing of the Fire Centre in Postojna due to this municipal decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u273	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly, for your word. I also welcome all Members, Members, Ministers, Ministers, also thank you very much for this question! I think there was a lot of exaggeration in your question, but of course I expected it. That the citizens of Postojna are desperate for the practice of Poček, this is certainly an overestimation. I must say that Poček remains the main training centre of the Slovenian Army. We are aware that we need to listen to the population, we want this dialogue, and in fact, in the past, an appropriate agreement has been reached because we are aware that the functioning of the Slovenian Armed Forces in this area, even though on land owned by the Slovenian Armed Forces, is causing certain problems, certain disruptions. We also wanted this agreement to give some satisfaction to the population and also to the Municipality of Postojna. Therefore, such an agreement was also concluded and, of course, obligations by the Ministry of Defence to the Municipality of Postojna were also determined on the basis of this agreement. In particular, certain infrastructure projects are of an infrastructure nature; in the past, for example, in the municipality, we carried military apartments, including some land, for free, so that this cooperation was at a high level. It is true, however, that last year, during the local elections, the Poček training issue was also used for the needs of local policy. Therefore, overnight the decision of the municipal council to derogate from this agreement, which also, for example, required the Ministry of Defence to co-finance the construction of a fire rescue centre because we believe that this is necessary. This is also for the benefit of citizens and also for the benefit of other citizens, because we know that there is also a highway running between the municipality of Postojna and the exercise area of Poček. There are also anti-group protections and on the highway, we know that many things can happen, so it is right that we also went to co-financing this fire rescue centre. It is true, however, that this funding was disrupted by the Ministry of Defence the moment the municipality withdrew from the agreement concluded between the Slovenian Army between the Ministry of Defence and the Municipality of Postojna. Here it goes, I think, for 256 thousand euros. The problem is that we no longer have a legal basis to pay this financial obligation definitively. For this reason, it would be very important to renew some agreement, some agreement that the Ministry of Defence would also get the basis back, to complete the financing of this fire rescue centre, which is in fact already built and only to close this financial structure. I must say that Poček is extended to another congregation, such as the Pivka Congregation, the Ilirska Bistrica Congregation, but interesting, and there are no problems. Nobody's desperate. We're very cooperative. I can say that I have set up a special working group for discussions with the local community, including the Postojna Congregation. But as part of these talks, for example for Pivka this year, it is agreed that we will asphalt one part of the road leading to the Bach shooting. Probably the Bach shooting site is some sort of disturbance for residents nearby. I must also say to Illyrian Bistrica that there will be a meeting and talks are under way. However, with the Municipality of Postojno, we have had two meetings with this working group, where we have tried to answer some open questions, one of which is the protection of water resources. In fact, we followed the court's decision, went into a retrial. We are now in the stage where the audit authority has to tell whether this professional basis is appropriate so that it can then also be the basis for the protection regulation [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u275	Mr. Secretary, you've wasted your time. You've wasted seconds you don't have. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u276	Beyond the political situation of local elections, I still think there is a serious problem. You said we were exaggerating or exaggerating. The Crassus Research Institute has prepared some soil analysis at Poček Training where it has been shown that there are excessive levels of heavy metals in this area above the prescribed regulations, especially in the hand grenade-throwing ranges, in the area of destruction of explosives, and most on the infantry shooting site. Chromium, arsenic, nickel, cadmium, zinc and cobalt exceeded emission limits. Lead and copper were at warning values and sometimes even a critical emission value. Earlier in one issue, it also raised a youth protest for environmental justice. I don't know if you know, but the weapon actually represents one of the major pollutants in the world. And the fact that, in fact, with this intensity in recent times, there has also been exercises in this area has certainly not helped to protect the environment. Here I stress that this is an area where we have karst soil, where these heavy metals also penetrate the groundwater. If these values are not so alarming at present, it may also be serious environmental damage over the long term. I wouldn't take these things so easily as far as the agreement with the congregation and the fire department is concerned. I understand this formalistic explanation that one party has withdrawn from the agreement, but I would still go back to that basic question: Why don't you plan to shut down a construction site that still has a negative impact on the water source? I think this is a serious matter, even though we've actually protected the water by entering the Constitution. Why not also take this step to alleviate the negative effects of climate change?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u277	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u278	Thank you very much. As far as the protection of water resources is concerned, believe that it is in the interest of the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Armed Forces to obtain professional solutions and professional results that will tell what is actually going on there; whether there are negative impacts or not. I also appreciate this assessment of this institution, but we are running a concrete procedure through institutions which are in charge and also responsible to say what the Slovenian Army is doing in this area. And believe that the last thing is that it would be in the interest of the Ministry of Defence and the Slovenian Army to continue to perform exercises there that would endanger water resources. Especially in the karst area. If that turns out to be true, look, as Secretary of Defense, I'm responsible for this not happening. I can put my word here. Of course, if the analysis shows that there is no impact, then you must understand that I will not be able to accept this assessment. As far as this payment for the fire rescue center is concerned. Look, this isn't about formality. This isn't about a little thing. For each payment it is necessary to have a legal basis. It was, this deal, the legal basis for the payment. Sadly, that was the decision of the congregational councillors. But I can also say that we are studying alternatives to where the Slovenian Army could build a central training centre in the area of Slovenia. I'd like to re-emphasize. This space has already been used for exercises in the previous country. I believe there wasn't too much attention at the time to water resources, to the feelings of the people. I remember never finding a problem when the Yugoslav People's Army practiced there. I don't remember any protests. It is true that we are now in democracy, that the situation has changed and that we must also take into account the position of democratic authorities, as well as the municipal council. And as it is said, if it turns out that the Slovenian Army is not desirable in this area, because the inhabitants or the citizens of Postojna are desperate, believe us to move somewhere else. However, I hope that it will not be necessary, as was necessary for the Yugoslav People's Army, to leave the port of Koper, but that the Slovenian Army has a domestic right in its country. Because when we need it when it comes to natural disasters, people really appreciate it!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u279	He's got an army, and you don't have seconds. We're moving on to question number 49. Mr. Jean Mahnič as Minister of Dr. Mir Cerar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u280	Thank you, President. One more time, Mr. Secretary. Last week you again did not miss the opportunity to make some statements regarding the judgment of the arbitral tribunal or the arbitration agreement, which merely add to the unrest between the relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. It was your response to Janez Janša's interview in the morning paper – I consider him more a response to someone who is disappointed because he does not come alone with an interview in the morning paper, the leader of the opposition will come. However, first of all, Mr Cerar, I would be interested in something exactly about your statement. You said why Croats want to renegotiate – because they want more. I'm curious, Mr. Cerar: And we don't want any more? Are you satisfied with what arbitration has given us? It is said that we have lost some land and, above all, that we do not have the entire Bay of Piran, as we had it on June 25, 1991. You said: “Let us continue to negotiate with the Croats that we will give them more.” If you've done this in the previous government, I don't know, I'm curious: Where did you find these answers? Moving on, I quote you again: "Not to mention his proposal when he proposed last year that we should give up everything and return to the 1991 situation." Mr Cerar, in this regard, I would like to know whether you have read the arbitration agreement, where it reads as follows, “no unilateral document or action by any party after 25 June 1991 for the tasks of the arbitral tribunal has no legal meaning and does not bind any party to the dispute and cannot prejudge the judgment in any way.” It is said that the arbitration agreement itself provides that the border date or that the starting point is 25 June 1991. And given your claims to deny it, that is to say, what the arbitration agreement says is of interest to me: Then what is kind of a starting date for you? I'm also interested in: Why have you persisted so stubbornly for 5 years that Slovenia belongs less than it should? Why do you insist that Slovenia does not have contact with the open sea, but that it has only a transition or service path? If you don't believe me, ask the Secretary of Defense. If the Slovenian Army is going through this transition with its vessels, it is still coordinating and reporting to the Republic of Croatia. In short, Mr Cerar, given that you were Prime Minister, and given that you are now Minister for Foreign Affairs and that you are now defending this arbitration agreement or verdict with all the screams, I would like to know, as before: When are you going from words to action? That's what it says: When will the arbitral ruling be enforced in practice?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u281	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u282	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and for the question, honourable Member. At least what I'm doing is bringing unrest into Slovenian space. On the contrary! I am one of those who just want to establish a slightly higher political culture. This is again getting worse in this mandate. I would like to see fewer of these ideological conflicts, which, with extreme left and far right, are meant to really cause unrest and to start decomposing Europe and Slovenia. I will never agree to this, so I also advocate the implementation of the arbitration agreement on a peaceful path and also on a legal path. You know that Slovenia has done everything on its side for implementation, that is to say, the implementation of the arbitral decision and Croatia is the one that has not yet implemented this decision, which violates international law, i.e. the arbitral decision as well as European law in the field of the fisheries regime, environmental rules, Schengen and other items, and we enforce it in the action. This will now be decided by the court. You say – this is a little funny – that I envy Mr Janša when he has an interview in the morning paper. I give him a lot of credit, I have an interview in Washington Post, or Euronews, or somewhere else, so I really don't have any, I'd say, here's some envy for Mr. Janša. But I've had interviews for Croatian media myself, and probably there will be opportunities for him and for me to have a lot of interviews. Am I satisfied that we don't have the whole Piran Bay? Mr Mahnic, both sides, both Slovenian and Croatian, are partially dissatisfied with the arbitral decision, that is the reality. I would like a lot more myself, but I am aware of the reality that the arbitral decision is what is now necessary to respect, because of course the Croatian side wants to avoid it and continue to negotiate. Why? Because he wants more. We've got about four fifths of the Bay of Piran, we've got contact with the territorial sea, not exactly 100 percent, as we optimally want, but still a contact that has territorial elements of contact. We've talked about this a lot. Slovenia is, of course, now that this border is clearly set at sea, there is no conflict here, we will reach some agreement with Croatia on how to implement it on land as well, and we will continue to do so. Let me point out that I went as Prime Minister in the previous term to all of these people at the border; from Pomur to the White Country, to Primorska, where we have done everything, of course, to discuss with them how we will implement this. These procedures are now taking place in their favour. People are at peace with this, mostly I can say there are no open questions here, problems, and we must now insist that we carry out these procedures on our side to the end. If you want, I will give you specific information, but they are also publicly available in the government report and so on. However, it is essential, once again, that the door should not be reopened to allow doubt as to whether we are serious about the implementation of the arbitral decision. The moment we agree to this, we agree to the stories we've already had. You say, in 1991 we had the whole Piran Bay. Please! Just as the Croats then admitted to us, we are now recognized. If we had the whole Piran Bay, then why did we lose it? Besides not saying that since 1991 we have constantly lost parts of the territory, that we have not even claimed cadastral. Look, we haven't even created cadastral records since 1991, even though we argued that this is a Slovenian state territory in the works that have now been allocated to Slovenia. Obviously those governments at that time didn't believe what we now got, and we believe that this was ours all along, and that's how we're going to do it in the future. So absolutely my criticism of Mr Janša is still well founded. I do not want to repeat it because it was very clear, but I do not want the party and state interests to interfere – what Mr Janša is definitely doing. I want us all to behave in a state-of-the-art manner and to be aware that an arbitral decision must be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u283	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u284	Thank you. With these answers, I got more than I could possibly count. See what Dr Cerar said that we have contact with the open sea or we do not have 100 percent. Mr. Cerar, do you know what the arbitration agreement says? The task of the arbitral tribunal is to determine the contact of Slovenia with the high seas, but you have now said, we do not have 100% contact with the open sea. Do you know the decision of the Slovenian Parliament that, if it does not contact the open sea, there will be no arbitration for us? Do you know him? Now you're the one who said there's no contact with the open sea. That's exactly what you said! It'll be a magnetogram, I think, in an hour, half written down, and we'll be able to tell. What else did you say? Since 1991 we have lost territory – yes, sadly, but now that the arbitral tribunal has granted us some territory, or at least officially, because they have not given us all that, but they have given us across this middle line, we do not exercise sovereignty in this territory; it has not been exercised by your previous government, not now that you are the foreign minister of this government. Why don't the fishermen go over half? Why are they being punished if they happen to get a little overboard? You cannot say that the Slovenian Democratic Party was not a viable party, that it was not constructive, see the vote on the CAP of the previous mandate, this mandate. We supported all your ideas, even though they were so bizarre, just for the sake of constructiveness and country-building. Inevitably, however, such foolishness cannot be supported. So once again: Why do you insist on implementation? Something that you seem to recognize yourself: we cannot implement because we have not received what was enshrined in the arbitration agreement in view of the decision taken by the National Assembly in 2008-2011. Or if you feel that it is necessary: When, among other things, as Foreign Minister, you will see to it that we exercise our sovereignty in the part of the territory that we [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u285	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, if you'd like a refill.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u286	We will check the magnetogram, but to be perfectly clear, let me say, in the arbitration agreement – and I know this very well – it says that Slovenia must have contact with the open sea. I said we got in touch, but not optimally what we wanted. We wanted a full territorial contact, but we got in touch with the elements of territoriality. So we have contact, and this one has elements of territoriality. The decision of the National Assembly referred to territorial contact rather than to the dictatorship enshrined in the arbitration agreement. The National Assembly has made a higher demand here. However, those in the arbitration agreement were respected by the arbitration tribunal. Although we do not like this to some extent, I still say that this is a better solution than we could have been in any other way. Another time. You said you supported my ideas on the board. I think it was right of you to support it. It is a good thing that we stepped together and supported the right solutions. Because the solutions that we have proposed in the previous government and also now we are likely to be working together – I hope – for they were real, they were good, so you supported them. Now, of course, you are looking for some reasons – “they were bizarre”. Look, then it means you weren't being honest. And I believed at the time that you supported the solutions because we had a good argument about them, and because I believe today that they were the best, the best. Punish the fisherman. That's right. Our fishermen are being punished and Croatians are being punished. The Ministry of Agriculture provides funds for the payment of legal services related to legal aid to our fishermen. We are here to cover all legal aid to ensure that they do not suffer material damage, and we are also consistently punishing the Croatian parties who are moving to our side, so that we can apply it later in further proceedings, in particular in connection with the action before the European Court of Justice. So let me conclude, because this matter does not need any further explanation. Slovenia acts consistently here; consistent in all respects. It is right that international law is now being respected, it is right that what is ours, because we finally have a certain limit once, retain it and give it to no one, we must also achieve implementation there on land on specific matters in nature, but this is a matter of some mixed commission, and we must not deviate from the arbitral decision, but strictly implement what it sets out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u287	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u288	Ours get fines, Croatians get fines. Absolutely, Mr. Cerar. But you know what the difference is? Ours do not hunt in the work that belongs to us in the arena, but Croatians are still hunting where they are before — and that is now with us. You still tolerate school, don't you? Why if it's in our waters? Why is the Slovenian Army still reporting when it goes through this corridor if it does not have to, given that we now have a service there? Why? In short, everything you say doesn't drink water. Now, you yourself have mentioned the need to establish a mixed commission to go on the ground. That is exactly what Mr Janez Janša, who spoke of the bilateral agreement, thought about the bilateral agreement that this agreement allows! A bilateral agreement in the sense that where the border is a problem where it has divided parcels or that the house has remained on the one hand and the economic premises on the other to set up a commission and to reach a bilateral agreement where the problem is; by listening to the local population. What's going on? There's nothing to do with that! By your insistence that you are not even talking to each other, we do not achieve what the arbitration agreement or verdict would allow — and also imposes on us within six months of the decision — to do so. Not as Prime Minister, not now as Foreign Minister, to do nothing in the sense that, in view of this arbitration agreement, the Croats and the Croats would make a commission and reach an agreement on this border. Whether it was honest or not – the votes say. There comes a moment when the state's interest is the most important and must always be. When we were united in certain matters, you also received our votes in the previous term, irrespective of what they were, even with our correction. But, Mr Minister, if we support some conclusions, then we are also expecting realisation. Unfortunately, we are not responsible, nor are we in charge, but you; rather as Prime Minister, and now as Foreign Minister. And, Mr Cerar, in your previous term, you once had a Slovenian, not to complain that you were looking for solutions. Not only are you looking for solutions, please add another sentence: I apply and apply solutions in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u289	But there's no procedural proposal. Then, Mr. Ambassador, you misused it. You didn't make a procedural proposal. I want something like this to happen in the future. Dear Members, we have only two more questions. Mr. Miha Kordish for Minister of Mag. Xenia Klampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u290	Thank you for your word, chairman! The trap of inactivity is an official euphemism for a sick ideology that the unemployed must be forced into the labour market under all conditions to accept every, so poorly paid and unhonored employment. To force them even into such jobs as are illegally exploited. Although it looked different immediately at the beginning of the mandate, it now shows that the Ministry of Labour will continue to insist on such starting points. Or, as the Minister of Labour herself put it, in the ideology of life-long work, which is translated, of course, into work to death. Thus, not only did pensioners find themselves in a coup with that government proposal for pension reform, but also the unemployed and recipients of social security. If I mention only four of the most problematic measures that have gone public. To begin with, the IMF would like to abolish the social assistance allowance for activity. It is a premium if the recipient is active in any society, is a volunteer, is in public works and so on. Come in. It would exacerbate the conditions for unemployment compensation. You are now entitled to this compensation if you have been insured for 9 months in the last 24 months. Well, the new number would have risen to 12 months in the last 24 months. Keep going. It would reduce the duration of unemployment benefits over 55 years to 19 months. This category of residents is now entitled to a 25-month refund provided that they have 25 years of insurance. It's another four-problem measure. We'd start by deleting people from the job search logs if they'd turned down one already, which is the first job offered. This is what happens now if someone refuses two jobs offered, but now they're going to step it up. Of course, the problem is that a person may be offered a harshly exploitable, inadequate job, and it is perfectly legitimate to reject it. Anyone who would like to pursue a crime should rather start with the rich who are fed from the labor force, but they produce little or nothing from their own path. While the task of the social state and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs must be primarily to help people. That's why I'm asking the Minister: Is it still insisting on the anti-social origins it has presented in this reform package? We strongly oppose these proposed reforms in the left hand side. Let us help people, not see how we will reap them more and force them further into exploitative, penetrating, unworthy jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u291	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u292	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. First of all, I would just add that whenever we have to fight for the social state, I will be the first in the line of battle. However, the social system must be set up in such a way that those who really need it are entitled to social rights. The social network must work in such a way that when someone who breaks something in his life from such or other circumstances cannot influence him to empower him and put him back in his shoes. In no way can this be a fixed remuneration, except in those cases where there are justified reasons. At the Ministry we have prepared measures of three laws, namely the Social Security Benefits Act, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act and the Market Regulation Act. If I focus first on the amendment of the Social Security Benefits Act. I propose the abolition of the employment allowance and the replacement of this by setting out an incentive for the activation of the unemployed beneficiaries of monetary social assistance. This means that I propose the abolition of the allowance and, on the other hand, the incentive that comes from active employment policy remains or will not result in lower financial social assistance than is currently the case today. In such a way that the identification of entitlements to financial social assistance does not take into account the remuneration received by an individual for inclusion in an active employment policy. We note that the labour allowance is not adequately placed in the Institute and strengthens the inactiveness trap, as this makes the monetary social assistance bonus dangerously close to the minimum wage limit. The price for monetary social assistance, together with the supplement for employment, is now reaching 89 per cent of the minimum wage. The rise in the basic amount of the minimum income to EUR 392,75 has resulted in a rise in the price for the acquisition of monetary social assistance, and the use of this supplement for employment is one of the basic principles of the granting of monetary social assistance, namely that the beneficiary of monetary social assistance cannot be in a more favourable social position than that of the livelihood provided by work or on the basis of work rights. Let me say that this is also an institution that no other Member State knows. There have also been anomalies in the use of the Institute of Employment Supplements, mainly in the implementation of voluntary work. In practice, there are cases where persons in the institution are justified in seeking employment due to temporary employment opportunities and where all legal conditions are met, they have automatic higher cash social assistance due to the labour allowance. Voluntary work can thus become, or becomes itself, the purpose and does not in fact mean the development of individual competences, self-image and social inclusion. It is also noted that companies are being set up in which persons participate solely with a view to obtaining an employment allowance due to a written agreement on voluntary work. The purpose of monetary social assistance is not to become a regular supplement to the working population, but to provide bridge funds when a person or family is in a situation of social danger that cannot be affected. An activity allowance in terms of incentives for work and motivations should therefore be provided from other sources or related to activities carried out by a person. Primary social security must be derived from social security established and intended to provide adequate social security for the individual in the event of the occurrence of the most burdensome social cases in the life of the individual. The aim of monetary social assistance is, therefore, to ensure that the person who is able to work is able to take care of himself as soon as possible. By abolishing the labour allowance, we are also decommissioning the centres, as it will not be necessary to re-issue the decision if they are included in the active employment policy. As far as the amendment to the Labour Market Regulation Act is concerned. As with the amendments to the Market Regulation Act, as with the other two laws, we have followed the objective of increasing labour force activity and ensuring social security. Demographic trends, low levels of work of older than 55 years of age, assistance in the integration of foreigners into our labour market and society, and on the problems addressed in the past by the Ombudsman or the transfer to the courts, are elements that have fostered the preparation of the initial proposals of the Labour Market Regulation Act. It is therefore a starting point which will be discussed within the framework of the Economic Social Council negotiating group in the coming weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u293	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u294	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yes, I want an answer. Madam Minister, I think that, at the previous regular session, I have taken you to the dam, and I have publicly said that you are brave, because you have taken the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and have begun to clean up all the confusion created by the social work centres that your predecessors have left there. However, I also said that we are at a wonderful time to cut across the 10-year policies of this same ministry, which agree that if wages are low in this country, then social assistance must be even lower in order to force people to work for these same low, exploitable, unworthy wages. Why am I bringing this up now? Because in answer to your question, this answer to my question, you acted as if your predecessor, Anja Kopač Dark, was answering with her own ideology. You yourself said that those who are entitled to social assistance should also receive this social assistance, that you also support it. I have given you four categories, however, which are unjustifiable at the impact of the proposed package of your reforms. For starters, there is a supplement to social assistance for activity. See, if there is a problem with any abuse — as you say, some societies are being established — please be more transparent! Why would we sharpen the criteria for unemployment? Again, these are the people who are entitled to these benefits because they have lost their jobs. And by reducing the duration of the unemployment allowance over 55 years of age, this once again does not contribute to absolutely nothing, except to compressing a certain category of employees. And after all, the fourth thing is that even sharper people are erased from unemployment records, and I think it's a mistake at all. This is an old social policy, we need a new social policy that will work for solidarity and social security, not for. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u295	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u296	I may only say about the very violations of the solution proposed in the Market Regulation Act. We are still maintaining a two-stage sanction in case of minor infringements, and in case of worse infringements, we are predicting a deletion from the record. Why have we prepared these measures, and why are they going this way? We have a high economic growth, a conjuncture, and the number of recipients of financial social assistance is growing rapidly. If we compare February 2019 and February 2018, we have 11,000 recipients. These must be numbers that mean that something in our system is wrong, that something stands out, that we have in a system of regulation that other Member States do not know. As I said in the introduction, we are approaching 89 percent of the minimum wage. When I talked to counselors at social work centres and the Employment Service, everyone in one and the same story tells me that it is impossible to motivate these people because they simply tell the story: the job is not worth it. All these measures are somehow going this way. We also absolutely need to know that we have raised the minimum income, that this employment allowance was put in place at the time of the biggest crisis, in 2011, when it was €230, today it is €392, and we find that it works pro-cyclically. We still have at the Employment Institute 80,000 people, who, despite intensive treatment, are very difficult to activate both the Employment and Social Work Centres. It's just because everyone's saying that work isn't worth it. Work has to be worth it in our country. Even as an advocate, a great advocate, raises minimum wages – I personally believe it is still too low – but it is at the same height as it is. Money social assistance, along with the supplement to work activity, as I said, undermines one fundamental principle, namely that the person receiving social assistance cannot be in the same position as the person who works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u297	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answers. Procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u298	Thank you for your word, chairman. I make a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the Minister's response. In fact, this claim is not worth the effort. He says it's not worth the job. But why isn't work worth it? Because social assistance is too high? No! No! Because wages are too low. And here is that plant in social policy that we need. You advocate, advocate social policy with more discipline, more control, more exploitation, because the wage policy of Slovenian employers is also directed towards discipline, control and exploitation. In what function is high, serious social assistance appropriate in relation to wages? It covers the person’s back that he does not have to accept just any work, including one that is brutally exploited, which is unfairly paid, which is often even illegal. That is why we need high social assistance. If we build a suitable social protection system, it will also pay off very quickly. Why? Because employers are going to have to offer higher wages, or they're going to get a shot. This is a system of appropriate social policy in relation to wage policies. You yourself, Madam Minister, have stated how we have record rates of economic growth, but at the same time also poverty in the rise or increase in the number of recipients of monetary social assistance. This is again something that, in the four years of the previous term in this National Assembly, we have not been able to bring through either the executive branch of power or other colleagues in the parliamentary benches, that is, that economic growth does not automatically eliminate poverty on its own. Some people are simply permanently unemployed because for health reasons, for example; because they may have a little poorer qualifications; because psychologically they have also fallen into the trap of long-term poverty and cannot help themselves at all, they do not know how to dig out from their situation and for all of these people the only way is active and solidarity social policy. No economic growth will help them. And all measures that are disciplined in promoting work do not, in fact, solve the situation, but actually make it worse for these poor people in the matter. Yes, work has to be paid, but it has to be paid for decent and decent wages, not because wages are unworthy, but because the working class can still accept them, because it is also an unworthy social policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u299	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. This brings us to the last, this is the 52nd oral question. You have him, Mr. Marko Bandelli, as Secretary of State, Dr. Alexandro Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u300	Thank you, President. Madam Minister, the final question is today. Here's another handful of people. That religious river says that the first one will be the last one, the last one; even if I don't believe it, they're the first ones left for me, the last one is always the last one in my whole life. The question that we have asked you, which I have asked you, is, of course, because of course, I am very fond of him as a Krašovec. The battle we fought through, and it's still there, there's this battle to protect this field. This delegated act, which, in our own way, has been missed by the European Commission. In view of the fact that we brought an action in 2017, we are interested – and I think that in this case also our compulsion inter pares – is our first of the same, which was also the first in line to participate in this battle. He's interested in everything: In what way, where is it, what stage are we in? What can we expect, what will be the exodus of this? When can we expect a solution? As you know, in the final stage of the matter he is doing real damage; he is doing damage to our farmers in Crassus, he is doing harm because of the unjustifiable partly recognised marking, let us say on the Croatian side. We're happy we even went to the lawsuit. We're so interested in what he's like and at what stage he's in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u301	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u302	Thank you, President. Thank you for the question, Mr. Bandelli. But allow a possible move a few steps back, what was actually going on in the process, because the answer in the end will be very short. In short, as soon as I took office as Minister, I wondered with great interest about the situation in the matter of the tyrants, because I followed it, even before I took office, the subject is very close and very familiar to me, so I also studied it very well as one of my first cases or the first projects at the Ministry. Therefore, as from 17 February 2016 in the European Union, a protected and registered name for wine bearing a protected designation of origin which is traditionally produced from grapes of the wine variety refošk in the area of Kras. In accordance with the provisions of the legislation, Regulation No 1 of the European Parliament and of the Council, The name of the vine variety containing or consisting of a protected designation of origin shall not be used for the labelling of agricultural products. While the legislation allows for certain exceptions, it must be granted in accordance with the Community rules applicable on 11 May 2002 or on the date of accession of the Member State. In the proceedings since 2014, when Slovenia first noted the Commission’s intention to grant an exemption to Croatian vine growers on the possibility of labelling this variety, it has, of course, sought to stop the Commission’s activities for substantive, procedural and legal reasons. For the purpose of Croatia's entry into the European Union 2013, the Commission adopted an implementing Regulation authorising Croatia, on its request, to use the designation 15 varieties of vines, which are, in part or in whole, composed of a protected designation of origin or contain such a designation, but which did not include an exemption requirement for a variety of vines. In 2013, the Commission made clear on this issue that the protected designation of origin is exclusively for Slovenian wine and that Croatia did not ask for the inclusion of vines in the list of exceptions prior to entry into the EU. The Commission has also prevented the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian wine producers from accessing all relevant documents allegedly requesting an exemption from Croatia and to which the Commission then opened the Delegated Regulation in question. On 19 May 2017, Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/1353 amending Regulation (EC) No 60/29 as regards the variety of vines and their counterparts, which may be used on wine labels, granted an exemption to Croatia for the labelling of grape varieties of vines on wines produced in Istria. Despite Slovenia's strong opposition, the delegated Regulation was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 21 July 2017 and Slovenia brought an action before the EU General Court on 15 September against the Commission for the annulment of the delegated Regulation concerned. In July 2018, a written part of the proceedings was concluded; in August 2018, a request was submitted to the Court of Justice for a hearing. Slovenia is still waiting for the Court to determine the date of the hearing at which, of course, it will be possible to clarify those particulars which have not been clarified or not been answered in the part of the proceedings, as well as to have the opportunity to answer all questions raised by the General Court of Justice of the European Union. The procedure will be concluded by announcing the judgment of the General Court of the European Union against which an appeal to the Court of Second Instance of the European Union is possible. It is estimated that the judgment could be declared by the end of 2019 and, of course, the dynamics depend on the conduct of other parties or interventions in the proceedings. So, first oral hearings are expected during this year, but it is, of course, impossible to predict or have no information on when these oral hearings should begin. Of course, on the basis of some of the other cases of similar actions that we have examined, we have found that these judgments may last for three to four years when the action is brought and the judgment is delivered. So much in anticipation of oral hearing before the European Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u303	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u304	Thank you, Minister. Of course, you gave us all the information we knew in practice. He's distracted us from the very beginning of the procedure. So the opening of the procedure, because we thought or we were sure it was concrete if we could say so. The thing is now this way; you need to know that the terrain is in fact one consolidated business opportunity for Krašovci as such. On the other hand, we also know that the aim is to extend this so that we do not sell more rinfuss to customers in the consortium in order to go into butleration. So that would add value to that. But all together, when stopped precisely because of this procedure, which — I hope so — should not be three, four years, but that this epilogue could probably be known earlier. I can give you a proposal, laity probably, at this time. You know, when ownership changes in the company, management changes. When politics changes, there's something about thinking. Maybe with the new elections, when the new Commissioner is worth making a visit to him and seeing what he thinks – not to be the whole procedure, but to understand that it was a mistake of previous leadership. Otherwise, you need to know that as the former Minister, I was in the first person with Commissioner Hogan, and I also made it clear to him. I said, "Look, this problem that we have when we're gone – but this problem will still remain." And now it's what it is. We didn't apologize for his moves. That is why we believe in you, and I think that with the new elections, there could be one way that we can get back to the European Commissioner, the Commissioner, or the Commissioner, who will, and see if we can stop this matter earlier, because a big mistake has been made for us and for our Krašovci. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u305	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Madam Secretary, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u306	I'll just try for a little while. Of course, I will take advantage of all the options we have given to try to bring this story to a positive conclusion – for the benefit of our producers, of course. At this point, I think it's right and proper to wait for the trial. If and when the new Commission is appointed, of course, I am also pleased to have a conversation with the new Commissioner on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-03-25-SDZ8-Redna-06.ana.u307	Thank you, Madam Secretary. In this way, I note that I can interrupt the first item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 26 March 2019, when the National Assembly decides on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I hereby adjourn the sixth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Everybody have a nice night. Goodbye!
