ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Violeta Tomić, Dr. Franc Trček from 2 p.m., Luka Mesec, Gregor Židan from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m., Felice Žiža, Ferenc Horváth, Jelka Godec, mag. Andrej Reich, Maša Kociper until 1:00 p.m. and Jernej Vrtovec from 2 p.m. Once again a nice greeting to all present! Allow me to speak a few words from behind the phone today.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, dear citizens and citizens! In the coming months, the Republic of Slovenia marks a series of crucial events that marked the future of our country 30 years ago. Tomorrow, September 27th, we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the adoption of 81 amendments to the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia. On this occasion, we wanted to invite all the members of the Commission at that time to participate. It's been a long time since then, and unfortunately our invitation hasn't reached everyone. It is an honor, however, to welcome the distinguished guests of today's session, members of the delegate of the Constitutional Commission: Mr Valentino Dvomoc [[Applause]] , Mrs. Milan Kucana [[Applause]] Dr. Miran Mihelčič [[Applause]] Mr. Anton Pershak [[Applause]] , Dr. Cyril Fish [[Applause]] and the Secretary, Mr Jernej Rovska [[Applause]] . I particularly welcome the President of the Commission and the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, Mr Miran Potrč [[Applause]] . Your work has laid the foundations of the system of parliamentary democracy, based on the principle of clear division of power and has led to the proclamation of the independent and independent State of the Republic of Slovenia. Aware of the importance of the steps that led to the adoption of the constitutional amendments, we suggest that we should fully discuss their importance at that time and the political and legal significance to this day. Of course, this is not possible in today's brief speech, but I believe that this task will be addressed in a comprehensive and objective manner by the stakeholders, historians and constitutional lawyers at that time. Especially since the adoption of constitutional amendments in the European area to date has been a unique example of a developmental change in the political and economic system, which has highlighted the sovereignty of the Slovenian people and the right of its democratically elected state authorities to have a decisive impact on the situation, rights and duties of the Republic of Slovenia in the context of the then federal Yugoslavia. I estimate that the essential amendments were those that ensured the freedom of political integration, the establishment and functioning of political parties, but not more monopolistic social political organisations, direct and secret elections instead of a delegational system and the fundamental protection of human rights in the system and the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial. Equally important in view of the relations in the Federation that Serbian nationalists and JLA wanted to manage within the federal bodies are amendments that guarantee the permanent, comprehensive and inalienable right of the Slovenian people to self-determination, including the right to secession and reunification. It is also important that an amendment which does not allow anyone in the territory of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, without the consent of the Assembly of Slovenia, must not declare an emergency or any action in respect of them. The situation that prevailed at the time gives added weight to the adoption of the amendments, since the progressive decisions of the political forces in Slovenia were thorns in the fifth majority in Yugoslavia. Only the unity of the Slovenian people and the courage and determination of our representatives in the Federation authorities have helped the federal authorities not attempt to prevent procedures by the adoption of the amendments by armed attack. This unity and organisation of political forces is also due to a later decision on the fateful issues of Slovenia. Among other things, the adoption of electoral legislation unanimously, the plebiscite for the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia and the unified armed rebellion against the JLA attack. Your Honor! I wish that political unity in the adoption and implementation of the amendments to the current Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, in addition to their content, would also lead to today's functioning of the National Assembly and the general policy. Knowledge, advanced thought and effort, then involved in the processes, eventually led to the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the first call of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Symbolically, but no less significant, today the sign of the National Assembly is illustrated by the first three articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia connected in circular form. They come from the floriss of the central Parliamentary Chamber, probably the most recognizable element of this democratic institution. This confirms that the Constitution, as for all other branches of government, is a fundamental legal framework, at the same time its conscience, which gives us all Members and Members an ethical and valuable mirror to ask ourselves what purpose we use the power given by the people and directs us to our efforts for the common good. I believe that this was precisely the basis for the action and efforts of the members and members of the then Constitutional Affairs Commission, for which I am giving them special thanks today. Thank you for your attention. / applause/ We're moving to 14. Agenda item – Defence draft resolution on the strategy of the national security of the Republic of Slovenia. The motion for a resolution was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u3	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The current resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, which is a fundamental development guidance document on national security, was adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 2010. In particular, since 2013, we have seen significant changes and deterioration of the security situation in the international security environment, including the wider European space. Taking into account the changed international security environment and the basis for the assessment of the state of national security system, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has acceded to the revision of the resolution on the national security strategy. As part of the preparation of the motion for a resolution, the revised and evaluated strategic interests and objectives of the Republic of Slovenia, the updated assessment of the security environment, the revised and adequately supplemented threats and risks, the existing national security legislation, the key strategic and doctrinal documents of various international organisations, in particular the European Union, NATO and the United Nations, and the continuity ensured by the existing 2010 resolution have been reviewed and evaluated. In this respect, we are talking about an evolutionary document, as it provides a framework for upgrading and modernising the national security system. The draft resolution was presented in a public debate in early 2019, including the organisation of two broader debates at the Faculty of Social Sciences and the State Council. On the basis of the decision of the Defence Committee, a public presentation of the opinions was also carried out in the National Assembly. The following are essential amendments to the motion for a resolution with regard to the document in force. The section on the geopolitical and geostrategic situation and the international security environment of the Republic of Slovenia shows the implications of the geostrategic position on national security. The sub-chapter related to the international security environment, reflecting significant negative security changes since 2014, is amended and supplemented. The content of individual categories of sources of threats and risks of national security is updated. As a new category of threats, hybrid threats are identified and cyber threats are adequately complemented. In the context of irregular migration, the possible consequences of various forms of irregular migration flows to the Republic of Slovenia are identified. In the case of military threats, the re-exposure of Euro-Atlantic space to such threats may take the form of non-State or supra-State actors. In line with the structure of the categories of sources of threats and risks of national security, there are also complementary ways of responding to them. When responding to hybrid and cyber threats, a comprehensive inter-ministerial approach and coordination of prevention and response to military threats shall be highlighted and adapted to the changed security environment and stressed the provision of appropriate national defence capabilities. In response to migration, it is envisaged to establish coherent border management by responding to different types of migration. In response to severe and organised forms of crime, the need to strengthen operational capacity and relevant normative and other changes is highlighted. Within the framework of the Internal Security System, it is defined that the Republic of Slovenia will strengthen cooperation between institutions and exchange of data and information. The text of the information and security community defining its entities, mission and tasks is added. In the normative and organisational sphere, the implementation of harmonised procedures, mechanisms and measures to respond effectively to all sources of threat at national and international level will continue. Your Honor! The sources of the threats we are facing today are extremely complex. The resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia as a basic development guidance document in this area is the first and most important step towards updating the national security system, its greater effectiveness and thus greater security in all areas for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so I propose that you support the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u4	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State, for your presentation. The committee responsible is the Defence Committee, so I give the floor to President Sam Bevk. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u5	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! At the May, June and September sessions, the Defence Committee considered the draft resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to the National Assembly for its consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group on 5 July 2019, the Committee also made a public presentation of the opinions. In his opening statement, the representative of the Defence Minister Karl Erjavec pointed out that the current resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted by the National Assembly in 2010. The proposal for a new resolution is a umbrella document which forms the basis for the other national security rules. The new resolution thus provides the basis for the preparation and complementarity of specific strategic and other developmental and doctrinal documents in the field of national security and for the normative organisational and substantive regulation of issues relating to the provision of national security of the Republic of Slovenia. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Dobran Bozič, said that the existing resolution is a 10-year-old document calling for amendments. As Slovenia is now actively involved in the activities of the European Union, NATO and, in particular, regional organisations such as OSCE, current topics such as hybrid threats, misinformation, cyber attacks and the fight against terrorism are, therefore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs calls for this document to be adopted as soon as possible. State Secretary, Ministry of the Interior, Mag. Sandi Curin explained that the Ministry of the Interior had participated in the drafting of the motion for a resolution in particular in some key chapters, including the establishment of serious and organised forms of crime, illegal migration and threats to public security. All these sets are also addressed by responses in these areas either in the form of national strategies or resolutions. The motion for a resolution foresees that the Republic of Slovenia will actively support the acquisition and evaluation of information on international organised criminal associations and terrorist groups, focusing mainly on a proactive approach based on intelligence-led police activities. Director of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency mag. Rajko Kozmelj pointed out that the Slovenian intelligence and security agency has actively participated in the drafting of the motion for a resolution. In his presentation, he drew attention to three key issues concerning her work. The first is the establishment of the Intelligence and Security Community, the next thing is the enhanced powers of the Owl, on which the inter-departmental arrangements agreed that they were necessary. The last thing is professional supervision of the work of the Owl. In the debate, some Members referred to the motion for a resolution as a problematic document, which is not worth the paper on which it is written, because it does not address appropriate threats such as poverty and inequality, and is, as such, more in the role of the NATO military-political establishment. Other Members lacked in the motion for a resolution some modern sources of threat, such as illegal migration, climate change and health and other non-military threats. Most of the Members who discussed were also of the opinion that it was necessary to be careful when granting powers to institutions operating in the field of information and security activities, since the border between human rights and security is very thin. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted its amendment to point 5. 6 motions for a resolution. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the chapters of the motion for a resolution together, with 9 votes in favour and 7 against, and adopted them accordingly. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the supplementary motion for a resolution in which the amendment is also incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u6	Thank you for your introduction, Mr President. This brings us to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Marko Bandelli, you have the first word on behalf of the Party of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u7	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! The motion for a resolution on the national security strategy has been quite a speech in the last few months. Among other things, a public presentation of opinions was made, in which the general public could become aware of the essential elements of the proposal and the basic purpose of the strategy. This is an extremely important document, as it provides a basis and a normative basis for future legislative changes in the area of security. The main objective of the proposal is the highest possible degree of national security. The last national security strategy is almost 10 years old since it was adopted in 2010. During this period, many changes have been made in Europe and the world, and significantly different security conditions dictate the modernisation of the national security strategy. In our immediate vicinity, there have been several tragic events in recent years that have marked Europe as a whole and we remember them well. I am thinking mainly of terrorist attacks in France, Belgium and Germany. Better cooperation between countries and better preventive security measures could prevent such horror. The resolution also points to increased tensions in the international security environment. As a country, however, we need to be able to respond to such events, and above all, preventive action is important. In this light, cooperation between countries is crucial as risks and threats go beyond the national borders of each country. The emerging forms of modern threats make it difficult to distinguish between national and global threats alone. It follows from the resolution that Slovenia will pursue a peaceful settlement of disputes and strengthen cooperation and trust between countries. This will contribute to joint efforts to maintain security and also sovereignty. The strategy includes hybrid threats that are rapidly building up in step with modern technology. A chapter defining the information cyber threats and responses to them is also updated. The risks are also illegal migration, which Slovenia has been facing since 2015. Even an integrated migration strategy is envisaged to contribute to the effective management of legal and illegal migration in Slovenia. Among other things, the document identifies the response to climate change, natural disasters and serious and organised forms of crime. Neither the health threats nor the limited nature of natural resources are neglected. In the SAB Group, we believe that the revised resolution on the national security strategy will contribute to strengthening the security and stability of the Republic of Slovenia. We are pleased that all actors involved in the drafting of the text have an important role to play in caring for the national security system. As a result, the various forms and aspects of risks and threats to be addressed in such a strategic document are covered. We are aware that preventive activities are essential in ensuring the safety of our citizens and property. Current circumstances should be monitored and analysed and appropriate responses should be made to legislative or other changes in the legal order. That is why we will express our support for the motion for a resolution. However, we are firmly committed to respecting human rights in all measures. There is a thin border between the provision of security and the protection of human rights. The adoption of legislation in this area therefore requires a great deal of caution in order not to allow abuses and thus violations of fundamental human rights and freedoms. Finally, let me stress that the adoption of the resolution on the national security strategy alone will not be sufficient; it will be necessary to approach the implementation of commitments and objectives in a timely manner so that they will not remain just dead points on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your position. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u9	Thank you for your word, President. All together, a very nice greeting, and especially the Secretary of State with the Ministry of Defence. National security is a phenomenon that unites and divides. The security of individuals and societies is a good thing that must be accessible to all whether we wish it or not. In his definition of security, former Defence Minister Anton Grizold wrote that security is a state in which the physical, spiritual, mental and material existence of an individual and a social community is balanced in relation to other individuals, the social community and nature. It is the fundamental value of human relations. The absurdity of ensuring security is that, when there are no immediate security threats, we are still neglecting the security risks present. The moment the concept of security is compromised, the risks begin to worry us. However, when risks become real security threats, the situation generally becomes absurd. Risks to security threats in the modern world have long been more than just armed conflict, but as security threats there are technologically advanced forms of threats with the absence of the direct presence of the human factor in the conflict. Without unnecessary persecution, I think that today we are all aware that peace is not a state of mind and an even less gifted good. Currently, Slovenia is not under military threat. Security threats certainly represent illegal migration, hybrid threats, various forms of terrorism or organised crime, for example. When dealing effectively with various forms of security threats, countries face the nature of a rapidly changing security environment at all levels. On this issue, the dilemma of sacrificing the freedom of an individual or of a society as a whole to ensure the welfare of the general public arises again and again. A common good, a shared creation of living conditions that best serves all people. Sacrifice of good is almost free in the event of a direct threat to the lives, territorial integrity or national interests of each country. In the Desus Group, we are aware that our national security system must be sufficiently flexible and, above all, effective to successfully address security risks and threats. That is why we need a fundamental and strategic document where national interests and objectives are identified and protected. Such a document is the Resolution on the National Security of the Republic of Slovenia. It also sets out how the national security system is managed and managed. The most serious blood in the National Assembly has led to conflicting opinions on the powers of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, which, according to a proposal from the Ministry, would be given greater powers mainly for successful preventive action. Therefore, other competent authorities could take appropriate and effective action to prevent security threats. The amendment tabled by the SDS on combating terrorism and violent extremism at national level was adopted by the Defence Committee. The coordination powers at national level will be conferred on the National Security Council. Notwithstanding the amendment adopted by the Desus Group, we are aware that the resolution on the national security of the Republic of Slovenia is such an important strategic document that we must have in view of the new potential forms of national security threat. Accordingly, we will also support the motion for a resolution by Members of the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Victory Jelinčič Noblemeniti has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia is one of the key documents ensuring peace, stability and a secure life in the country. The resolution before us is still full of holes. After all, if we look at health, preventive defence against possible health challenges is still not regulated, especially with regard to migration, as is now the case in Sweden, when certain diseases that we do not know in the European area come in. I would expect this to be processed in point 4. One of the most important issues, however, is certainly the intelligence activity of foreign actors, particularly in relation to terrorism and violent extremism and the serious and organised forms of crime. In this segment, a part of the opposition has tabled an amendment that prevents the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Service from interfering and preventing such acts. I think it's a big mistake. This is a terrible mistake, because if we look at it on the other hand, the police have the right, for example, to secretly enter apartments, while the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Service does not have it. However, it must be said that it has been prepared for the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Service to enter the premises in secret, with strong legal certainty by the Ministry of Justice, while the police can do so in a much easier way by order of the Police Director. That doesn't make any sense. This nonsense is going to cost us a lot of money and hit us over the head at the level of the European Union, which it is these gentlemen who are against the issue of settling it are bowing down. All the intelligence services in the world cannot believe that our intelligence service does not have such powers. Therefore, even foreign intelligence services suggested that if they could, they would help Slovenia to prevent possible terrorist attacks and serious criminal acts. Massive crime is discussed by the media when dozens of kilograms are smuggled or more different drugs, especially cocaine, are not actually happening to anyone. This, however, is only indicative enough to allow the intelligence service to follow such people. We have quite a few Wahhabi groups in our country that our country does not seem to be able to control because Owl has no right to secretly enter the apartment. Once again, the secret entry of the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Service would be ensured only by a judicial order and judicial control, not just so. However, it must be said that the police are still just like that, I don't know why, secretly entering certain premises and controlling certain people. This is still happening. It has happened before on a much larger scale, but it is happening today. The Owl, however, will not be allowed to do so in accordance with judicial orders. The amendment, which was tabled, undermines the stability, stability and security of the Republic of Slovenia and its inhabitants in a large segment. But what's funny is that when they wanted to correct this amendment with one correction, two coalition parties decided not to support it, and that was Mrs. Alenka Bratusek's and SD's Party, so one wonders – why? But it may be convenient for someone to smuggle large amounts of drugs, do some pork in Slovenia, and in this way also undermine the stability of our legal system and life in Slovenia. We will support the resolution in spite of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Mahnic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u13	Thank you for your word, President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Before this resolution was prepared, the brother also went to the resolution adopted in 2009. If you look at the text of that resolution and look at the reality that it should be based on the resolution, you can see that the previous resolution was just a dead letter on paper. I firmly believe that this resolution that you will adopt today will be just a dead letter on paper. Let's just say one case. Much is written and spoken in this resolution on cybersecurity. When a meeting of the Defence Committee on a proposal from the Slovenian Democratic Party on cyber security was held earlier this year, it was decided that the Government should draw up a report on the state of cyber security in five or six months and that the Defence Committee should then meet. It may also be held in closed session if the content is of a confidential nature. There was no report, no meeting of the Defence Committee. This should be carried out by the end of June. As much as we take seriously both this Parliament and the conclusions it adopts – not just Parliament, especially the working bodies, but also cybernetics. If we look at the number of members and members of the Slovenian Army, which is less than 40 to 50 members each month, if we look at the insufficient number of police officers, where we have also written in one of the resolutions or strategies that we will have 10,000 to protect the southern border, after we have entered the Schengen area. We can see it's nothing. On the one hand, when we sign an international commitment in 2024 to give 2% of GDP for defence, and when we look at the resolution, where it says that we will try to gradually increase the funds for defence, and when the President of the Government says in one of the interviews that, as it all appears, we will reach 1.5% of GDP in 2024, while we have signed before the allies that we will achieve 2% of GDP, then any resolution is pointless. It must be said, however, that we have tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party to delete what was in fact one of the fundamental purposes of this resolution, namely that Sova gets further clarifications, otherwise under some judicial protection. But look at the orders that Judge Janez Žirovnik made. There are many such cranes among the judges. How they investigated, on the basis of a court order, the apartment of former SD Member Andrei Magajne when he was accused of pedophilia, and then this disk just got lost. He's lost, he's gone. Someone lost him at the police station. And many such cases speak for themselves that even those who would sign the order cannot be trusted, unfortunately, only the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Agency, which is already primarily dedicated to espionage against the internal enemy. To settle by Gregorčič against those who would in any way endanger those who sit on Gregorčič. Not in terms of existence, but in terms of their positions. I hope that Knovs will also open up this issue of what is happening in recent days, as reported by the Fire Report. If Owl is being abused for painting the directors of state companies, journalists, Members and anyone else, then we have a serious problem. When we talk about drugs when we talk about terrorism – all this is a supranational element and Owa can follow Slovenian citizens under existing legislation when it comes to transnational threats in connection with abroad. When someone from Balkan countries smuggles drugs into Slovenia or via Slovenia, it is a supranational element, it is a connection to foreign countries. A Slovenian citizen who smuggles drugs into Slovenia or through Slovenia can now follow Owl. That's right. Read the law, he can do it now. And you're faking it. I know some names when we go to see orders when Owl gives us some names. I'm not the only one, at least eight people in here know about it, so don't be fooled about it. In view of all that I have said before, and given that we believe that the resolution will not be implemented, that it will not be implemented, we do not see any reason to support it, so we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting your position. Mrs Jerca Korča on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u15	Good-bye! Thank you, President, for your word. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! Your Honor! The resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia is a fundamental development guidance document in the field of national security. The resolution sets out the objectives exposed to sources of threat, an analysis of the security environment. In addition, the basic baselines for responding to individual threats are also identified. Perhaps it would be more reasonable to talk about the challenges to which responsible policy must respond and find appropriate answers for rapid and effective identification and response. Organizing society into a system called a state represents the human decency to form an organization that enables the existence and development of human society as a reasonable and free being. To develop all subsystems of the country and society as a whole, we need security and peace to open up a debate on the development opportunities of the economy in a democratic spirit in this building and to seek solutions for the health system, for education, for pensions or in general. Without that, it is totally irrelevant what a political party thinks about any social system. In the country, we have a wide range of systems and subsystems to which we impose national security concerns. We have police, military, intelligence. We expect everyone to do their job at a high level to identify the risks ahead, to respond preventively and thus to prevent actions that would in any way endanger the safety of citizens and citizens. On the other hand, we have a policy that is not ready to give its own authorities the legal basis for carrying out their tasks. As soon as the debate on the promotion of powers opens, there is a populism cry that now the Hollywood undercovers will come into the citizen's house and inspect his refrigerator and install devices to listen to his evening conversation with his wife. Let's be serious. We don't trust our own authorities, the courts, even more, we even question their expertise and well-meaningness, and we all trust, on the other hand, in tons of information every day, that through algorithms create scary weapons of manipulation in the hands of a handful of online giants. More. These same people know practically every move we make, every location we make. They know more about us than we know about ourselves. But no! People must be protected from professionally trained services established in our country and subject to legal restrictions, acting on the basis of judicial orders, controlled by Parliament and even other professional bodies. Of course, this same policy, which has done everything in the process of drafting the resolution to make it impossible for the Owl to function more effectively, will jump into the air at the first incident and talk about the need for systemic and organisational changes. It's like how many times they're going to contradict themselves. We have spent too much time in my opinion discussing Owl's powers, which should be more than a technical complement to any responsible policy. Unfortunately, less time has been devoted to key challenges, which are also defined in this document as threats and risks to the national security of the Republic of Slovenia, climate change, I would rather say the climate crisis itself, which is also associated with natural disasters, natural resources constraints and the degradation of the living environment, not to mention migration flows and other risks arising from climate change, which is man-made and causes. It would be even more reasonable to define human care as the greatest threat to national security. We will support this resolution in the LMŠ despite the distorted form of the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u16	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Bevk alone has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u17	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! We believe that the motion for a resolution on a national security strategy, despite the declaratory nature, is an important document to be supported. Last but not least, the document follows a coalition treaty in which the area of security takes an important place. The proposed document received broad public debates as well as criticisms, particularly in the work relating to sub-chapter 5.6 response in the field of combating terrorism and violent extremism. Many concerns were raised mainly by the planned extension of the powers of the Owl to monitor Slovenian citizens, which was amended in some sense by the Defence Committee with the amendment adopted. However, the National Security Council of the Republic of Slovenia has received an additional difficult task through this amendment. However, regardless of this change, the Social Democrats are reminded of the particular sensitivity of the area of intelligence and security activities, where any change in legislation requires a thorough reflection and a thorough and inclusive public debate. Legislation in this area must be clear, determined and must strike a very fragile balance between ensuring security, on the one hand, and interfering with communication privacy and human rights at all, on the other hand. Key changes in relation to the existing resolution are in the definition and in the newly established security threat order. The new and particular emphasis is on hybrid threats, exposed and complemented by information and cyber threats and, as I have already mentioned, the area of terrorism and violent extremism, which potentially threatens the constitutional order of the Republic of Slovenia. Hybrid threats represent an interlinked, complex and unpredictablely high-integrated use of disguised and detected combinations of traditional and irregular military as non-military assets. Such threats may come from both state and non-state actors, focusing mainly on the weak points of the opponent, such as critical infrastructure, energy, banking, transport, etc. All of this with the aim of destabilising the affected country and achieving its own interests. Let us not forget 2017, the biggest international cyber attack in history. In concerted actions, more than 91,000 attacks were carried out, among the victims of the attacks were companies operating in Slovenia, while attacks on the Ljubljana Clinical Centre or health institutions were prevented. In order to respond to hybrid threats, a central authority should be established to monitor and coordinate response to hybrid threats and a single risk assessment process should be established for the operation of critical infrastructure. The Member States of NATO and the European Union are also facing an increase in the number of non-conventional hybrid and cyber threats requiring rapid adaptation and development of appropriate response mechanisms at both NATO, European Union and Member States levels. While the fight against hybrid threats is primarily within the competence of the Member States, the European Union is also aware of the transnational nature of such threats and the importance of the joint fight against them. As of 2016, a common framework for the fight against hybrid threats, for increasing Member States' resilience and for pooling European and national instruments was therefore developed. Hybrid threats and resulting hybrid warfare also make it increasingly difficult to draw the line between peace and war. From the point of view of the values that we are representing the Social Democrats, we consider that for national security it is also necessary to pay attention to health and other non-military threats. Personal human security must not become or remain in the third plan. The Social Democrats will support the motion for a resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u18	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Gregor Židan has the floor on behalf of the SMC Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u19	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Security is one of the fundamental conditions for the operation and development of our society and our country. We are convinced that the efficiency of the country is reflected in the degree of security that it provides to citizens and citizens through its national security system. We advocate that the Republic of Slovenia, through all measures, ensures a high level of security while maintaining the position of Slovenia as one of the most secure countries in the world in an increasingly dynamic and complex security environment. We are therefore working towards an effective and timely response to modern security threats, which requires the strengthening of our own human and infrastructure capacities and the comprehensive approach and participation of all stakeholders in society. In today's world, we are facing an increase in tension and uncertainty and a rapid and thorough change in the international environment and the emergence of new forms of threats. Therefore, the fact that the current resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia is urgently needed, which is also enshrined in the coalition agreement, with a view to successfully countering contemporary security threats and risks such as cyber and hybrid threats, terrorism, violent extremism and illegal migration. In the motion for a resolution, the importance of upgrading and building resilient systems of the State and the society for detecting, responding and protecting and protecting against various forms of hybrid action is highlighted. We are also defending this, as this will raise Slovenia's social awareness of the challenges posed by the various threats. In this context, we believe that the strategy for the protection of critical infrastructure will also be adopted as soon as possible. In the context of the new resolution, we expect it to make progress in the management of natural and other disasters, with a number of preventive activities such as earthquake-resistant construction, flood and drought mitigation measures, preventive fire prevention measures, better preventive flood protection and other measures. The resolution also provides for the strengthening of the cooperation of the Sova Agency with the security authorities and the services of the European Union and NATO and their members in the exchange of information and intelligence and in the verification of security. We also agree with these and many other measures, which are set out in the motion for a resolution, in the Group of the Modern Centre Party, but at the same time we believe that, given the geostrategic and geopolitical changes that are taking place around us and beyond, we are late for a recast resolution. Above all, it should be accelerated to implement and adapt all legal and sub-legislative acts that ensure its implementation. We are also of the opinion that the resolution is not complete, as we would expect more attention and action in the field of water resources protection, response to health epidemic threats and prevention of terrorist financing, and more details on the issue of Owl's mandate. In addition, we propose that, due to the increasing presence of cyber threats, a new body should be set up as soon as possible to deal with this problem, such as the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent cyber attacks or, for example, the Slovenian Information Security Agency. Slovenia is currently one of the safest countries in the European Union, at the level of population risk. However, it proves that all the entities of the national security system of the Republic of Slovenia provide a high level of security, but at the same time we are well aware of the shortcomings and difficulties faced by the intelligence and security authorities in ensuring the highest possible level of security in our country. We believe that the resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia will increase the effectiveness of our country's national security system and, by means of those measures, address the identifiable shortcomings in this area. The proposal for a resolution will therefore be unanimously supported by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u20	Thank you, Member, for your presentation. Mr Miha Kordish has the floor on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u21	The resolution on the national security strategy is a pamphlet of NATO's ideologists. These convince us that the security environment has changed and that we need to respond with a larger calibre to change. A, ladies and gentlemen, it has been changed by diplomatic isolation, military occupation and the economic devastation of the countries, just as your resolution preaches for the future. Iraq, Iran, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, Venezuela, Ukraine – the list is inexhaustible. The security environment has not changed on its own. You, ladies and gentlemen have changed the security environment. When capitalist giants are economically devastated across Third World countries, you are loudly cheering or silently nodding. When the White House World Police Officer with sanctions strangles independent states, you polish his jacket. When the military machine of imperialism sweeps the entire region and the white phosphorus releases natural resources for the commercial prey of Western corporations, you send Slovenian boys and girls to the other end of the world to support patrols. You, in corruption affairs, are mass purchases of weapons for the occupation of abroad from hawbiz to patriots and last boxers, while tightening the belt to the residents of the home. You are sending the army to the operations of the Pact of NATO, so the Slovenian military boot is also gushing the sand of the Middle East and contributing its small stone to the mosaic of plague, hunger, death and war desolation. No, ladies and gentlemen, the security environment hasn't changed, you've changed the security environment. When the inhabitants of the devastated countries, the poor, the tired, the hungry and the sick step to our borders, declare them a threat to national security number 1. Instead of a blanket and a warm meal, they are expected with cordons of police officers, water cannons, tear gas, pendricks and cutting wire. Then you put them in camps and you deport them back to hell, which burned with your help. The greatest humanitarian disaster since World War II, sell as a security threat so that Slovenian citizens can only buy your instigation of a repressive apparatus to consolidate the military ideology and establish a comprehensive control over Slovenian citizens themselves. Now you have brought before us a resolution on a national security strategy, a document that invents security threats that are not there, or you potentialate those that are merely academic and no more pronounced than ever before. Instead of a policy for global peace, you're working on preparing for world war. You're running a panic before Middle East terrorism, the Russian Federation's military attack and mystical hybrid threats from everywhere. And on the other hand, there are real threats that do not affect you: poverty, inequality, pollution, climate change, all threaten both the world and Slovenia. But you're not being moved. The resolution confronts us with the consequences of your actions: more repression, more war and more economic devastation in the global south, with which you have changed the security environment at all and created crisis hotspots; it is the basis for a further 1.2 billion euros of heavy investment in the NATO war machine and the military industrial complexes of its largest countries; it is also the basis for new military expeditions 10,000 kilometres away and additional control over the inhabitants of the home. All for maintaining exploitative social relations, in which a handful is rich at the expense of most in Slovenia and the world. Anything to protect your rent, profits and functional wages. Anything to defend your own privileges and further enslave people who do not have these privileges. All people can be blinded for a while, some people can be blinded all the time, but you can't blind all people all the time. You're aware of that, so you're desperately running for weapons, setting up microphones and building databases. The Socialists strongly reject your resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u22	Thank you for your introduction, Member. As the last one, you have a position of mags. Matthew Tonin, New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u23	Good day, dear Messengers and Messengers! The Council has changed significantly in recent years. In the future, wars will no longer be fought on the ground, but more and more in cyberspace. That the world has changed significantly, the war in Afghanistan also speaks, for example, that war in Afghanistan was the Soviet Union, the idol of our Left, and it was tragic, with violent victims, and in the end the Soviet Union lost this war. A similar story has been found recently by the United States of America, which is currently negotiating with the Taliban. In short, the world has changed significantly, so that even world powers, if you want, socialist or capitalist — today, China or today, the United States of America, are increasingly aware that real battles from the ground are moving completely into other places. Cyber security is one of the things that should be further exposed in this resolution on national security and even more stressed. We don't live in some bubble anymore when nothing can happen to us. During the last period, Slovenia has also witnessed intense cyber attacks that have had concrete economic damage. Let me mention only Pharmacy Ljubljana and Revoz. In the world, however, we know that we are preparing for the winter period, that before that time hackers in some way stopped the supply of electricity in Ukraine to more than 200,000 Ukrainian citizens during the worst winter. We know the 2007 Estonian story when it practically collapsed the entire system due to cyber attacks – from banks to public administration. The Internet of Things that enables us to have virtually all our smart devices connected to the network in one way or another can also forcefully contribute to the fact that certain attacks are already taking place in our homes. Cyberspace is one of the main areas where future battles will take place. The next important thing is also terrorism and extremism. After the defeat of the Islamic State, many fighters began to travel from Syria, from Iraq back to Europe. Failure to control migration flows has contributed to the unhindered entry of many Islamic fighters into the European Union. Cyber security and extremism and terrorism are two areas that need special attention. There's still a lot of work to be done in cybersecurity. Many countries in the European Union are already developing offensive capabilities, while Slovenia is still working only on defensive capabilities. In some ways, extremism has revealed the vulnerability of Slovenia. Recent cases have shown that Slovenia does not have a legal basis where domestic extremists can be effectively monitored, particularly during a period when the police do not have adequate evidence to act. There has been a strong debate in the public on who should take over these powers. The government has proposed an Owl. What disturbed us in Novi Slovenija was, in particular, the control over the use of these covert investigative measures. In Novi Slovenija, it seems unacceptable that the Owl should be supervised at this point by a government team, because it is also part of the executive branch of the Authority, but should certainly strengthen the Commission’s supervision of intelligence and security services by adding an expert group that can effectively supervise the use of these potential covert investigative measures. That is why today New Slovenia cannot support this resolution, but we will not oppose it, because it contains some positive things.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u24	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we conclude our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I note that the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled. We will vote on the motion for a resolution today in the framework of the vote, which is half an hour after the end of the 15th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. On the day-to-day basis, this is a debate on the response of the Minister of Environment and the Simon Rabbit Space to the business question of the Simonovich Branch in connection with the provision of constitutional rights to drinking water for residents in the Rižanski Voivodship area. At its 10th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a debate on Mr Simon Zajc's reply to Mr Branko Simonovic's question on the provision of a constitutional right to drinking water for residents in the rice pipeline area. I would like to take the floor to Mr Branko Simonovic for further explanation of the proposal for a debate on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! Railway accident, evicted wagons, spilling kerosene just a few kilometres from the main water source for the supply of drinking water to the population of Istrian municipalities, 90 thousand of us plus at least 45 thousand tourists in the summer season are called for quick and effective action. The need for drinking water, which increases to 420 litres per second in summer months, is guaranteed by the public company Rižanski voivodship by almost half of the necessary quantities, which is just over 200 litres per second, buys from neighbouring water companies, from the Kraška water supply and imports from Croatia. The purchase of more water does not allow the capacity of the water network, even if water were available. Water supply in Slovenia is based on the source of Rižana, which as the only real water source of the water supply system has no reserve at the time of the decline. In the event of the accident this year, it shows that both Minister Simon Zajc and all those who participated in the working group were preparing and implementing measures to ensure that the leak of kerosene did not reach the water source. We can only hope that this will be the case. By solving the problem of water scarcity in the Slovenian Istrian region, they began to work in the 1980s. Since then, nine variants have been conceived and processed at different levels, whose solutions have mainly been aimed at finding an additional water source to ensure the long-term safe supply of the Slovenian Istria area and the karst hinterland with drinking water. Due to the importance, complexity and complexity of the issue, the supply project has been classified as a priority in the National Infrastructure Project Implementation Programme. In 2002 the Ministry of Environment and Space commissioned a study on the supply of drinking water to the population in Slovenia and the western karst area, verification of possible water resources with the aim of a long-term and regionally designed solution. In the comparative analysis, it was found that, among all of these variants, the Pades/Suhorica variant has a significant advantage, which is the only one that fully meets the required programming baselines. On 25 October 2002, the Ministry of Environment and Space adopted this option as a solution for which further project activities are being developed. By Decision of the Minister of 6. 3. 2003 was the activities of the first phase, this is the verification and selection of the water source, completed. The process of putting project activities into space has begun. This is also published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia 17/2004. Construction of the project is expected to be completed in 2011. In 2006, the Ministry of Environment and Space suspended the activities of the preparation of the State's site plan by explaining that a vision of the entire project documentation would be produced and followed by a decision on the continuation of the project. The re-examination was not subject to project solutions and variants considered as part of the preparation of the project investment documentation. The expert opinion or study referred to the assessment of the water source variant Klivnik and Mol, which was already rejected for the first time as technically impossible in the comparative study 2002 and for the second time within the working group. In view of the current practice of implementing project activities, there is an increasingly realistic scenario that will continue to remain unchanged after decades of searching for a water source. So far, activities have shown that we have returned to the beginning in each variant and have set up a working group that has already been re-examined. Whether water supply in Slovenia as so far depends on the good will of neighbouring Croatia, and because of its growing demand for drinking water, even with such a favourable political climate, it will not be able to provide smooth water supply to Slovenia in the long term. Dear Mr. Secretary! I'm asking you again, and I'm expecting [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u26	Mr. Ambassador, you've exceeded your time. The rules apply to everyone, including the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. You've had five minutes and you've exceeded 35 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u27	But I'll finish in my position.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u28	You see, the rules apply to everyone. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u29	But up to 30 seconds is allowed, you've interrupted me before. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u30	At the end of the 25-second period, I warned you that the rules also apply to the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. I believe you understand. I hereby give this word to Minister Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Slovenia is a rich country with water, which is not spatially or time-consumingly distributed, so it is very important that we manage it effectively both in terms of quality and in terms of water quality protection. From the point of view of the supply of drinking water in Slovenia, groundwater is mainly used, with 93% of the water being supplied to the public from sources, wells and wells. Only a small proportion of available water is used in Slovenia to supply drinking water and any other use of water, around 3% of available water. The protection of water resources for public drinking water supply is ensured by establishing water protection areas of 17% of Slovenia. Drinking water is a key asset for the lives of the people of the Republic of Slovenia, so its provision must be among our common priorities. The real importance of drinking water in public service is, in fact, only to be realized when there are disruptions to its supply, so everything must be done to ensure that this will no longer occur in the future. By describing the right to drinking water in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in 2016, a new step was taken to protect drinking water and water resources, which are now protected at the highest legal level. The work on the harmonisation of legislation with the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has been stepped up intensively in this mandate by the establishment and functioning of the Interdepartmental Working Group. Activities related to the implementation of the constitutional amendments relating to drinking water were presented to representatives of the Association of Municipalities and the Municipal Economy Chamber and further cooperation was agreed with them. However, the first amendment of the legislation will soon be given to Members at the tables, i.e. the amendment of the Water Act, which already implements part of this amendment to the Constitution. On 25 June, six wagons of freight train were wiped out in the tunnel in Dol near Hrastovje, with kerosene spilling. In addition, the vulnerability of the water source to Slovenia's Istria has been demonstrated, and we are immediately looking for solutions to provide long-term water resources for the water supply of Slovenia's Istria. On 11 July, I set up a working group to provide long-term water resources for the water supply of Slovenian Istria and the hinterland, in which we also included all the mayors of this area, and I trusted the Director of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water, Mr Tomaž Prohinar. Otherwise, I first offered the leadership of this group to one of the mayors, but everyone thought it was better for Mr Prohinar to lead the group. This has already conducted a series of interviews, collected all the existing documentation from past attempts to plan the arrangements for an additional water source and prepared a project task. The first meeting of the group in full composition took place at the end of July, yesterday the members met again and presented the content of the project task. The key baselines taken into account in determining possible options were the following: to ensure stable water resources and a system for drinking water supply in the wider region, water resources and transport pipelines should be located in Slovenia, to avoid interference with the water environment, to take account of hydrographic characteristics and limitations, and to ensure the exploitation of existing water resources, facilities and pipelines to the maximum extent possible, including with a view to achieving the desired results as soon as possible, taking into account the economic and financial sustainability of the project. This provides the basis for the preparation of a study which will take into account the following variants of water resources that all stakeholders of this group agree with, namely, the use of existing water resources in and outside the area, the provision of additional amounts of water from already built accumulation and the provision of a new water source through the implementation of a new accumulation. The solution must be rational and financially sustainable, as the costs of water supply will be felt and borne by users in particular. We must therefore provide them not only with water but also with the most valuable water. I am convinced that the group is on the right track and the solutions have been made meaningfully, professionally and responsibly. Why? Firstly, since so far there has been no approach to a study in which all variants would be treated equally and compared. This time, the project task includes all relevant variants, but if any other meaningful and feasible variant is demonstrated during the performance of the task, it can also be added to the comparison. Since the group has responded to the problem of cooperation and integration between individual water providers by linking everything and because the profession has so far not been able to unify itself around the solution and different experts or groups of experts have favoured different variants, it is important that all relevant variants be addressed and compared on the same task and in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u32	Mr. Secretary, it's as if you've been timed to minus 25 seconds. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Branko Simonovic, without a time limit, except 30 minutes, your word is on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u33	Thank you so much for saying that. Say hello again. In the Desus Group we follow and agree with those who believe that the removal of a train with kerosene wagons in the Hrastovje tunnel on 25 June this year is a painful reminder of two key uninvested investments in the region: the construction of the second track of Divaca-Koper, as crucial for the existence and development of the port of Cyprus and the provision of a sufficient and safe water source for the Slovenian coast. For both investments, funding from the Cohesion Fund has already been provided in the financial perspective 2004-2008. The accident threatened the most important water source in the region, providing more than 75% of the water supply needed for the supply of drinking water to some 90,000 inhabitants in the region and at least 45 000 tourists in the season. Even during the best dry season, Rižana’s water source provides at least one third of the required quantities of water during the season, which cannot be replaced by other water sources. The occurrence of the smallest quantities of kerosene at the source of Rižana is a cessation of water supply. The long-term average daily consumption of drinking water in the region is 270 litres per second, which, due mainly to tourism, increases to 320 litres per second and can reach over 420 litres per second at the end of consumption. During the summer months, when Rižana’s inflows are substantially reduced, the water resource deficit is replaced by imports of water from neighbouring water supply systems, the Kraška water supply and imports from Croatia. In the critical summer months, imports can reach a low half of all drinking water needs in the region. The technological limitations of transport capacity prevent the transport of more water if it is also theoretically available. In view of the importance, complexity and complexity of the issue, the water supply project has been classified as a priority in the national national infrastructure projects programme with the following programme baselines. The Republic of Slovenia has decided to approach a solution with a new independent regional water source, which will ensure the sovereignty of the country in its management and which will provide a long-term solution to the supply of drinking water to the population in the region. Ensure a water source which has the minimum potential for risk both as regards quantities and the quality of raw water. Protective areas and transport pipelines must be located in Slovenia. In accordance with the Directives of the European Union, sufficient quantities of water within the Adriatic Sea should be provided. At these starting points, the ILO expert working group in 2002 processed 9 variants at different levels and found that, among all variants, the Padež variant, Suhorica, the only one that fully meets the required programming baselines, has a significant advantage. The version was accepted as appropriate on the ILO Expert Council. The ILO investor continued its activities in the preparation of the project spatial and environmental documentation, the procedure for the adoption of the spatial implementing act, the acquisition of the building permit and the preparation of the application for co-financing of the Cohesion Fund project. The project activities were suspended by the ILO in 2006 by an explanation that a full revision of the project documentation would be produced and that a decision on the continuation of the project would be followed on the basis of conclusions. In the Desus Group, we believe that the project should be continued where it has been stopped and finally discontinued by appointing working groups that are studying the opinions and analyses already found. The inhabitants of Slovenian Istria need a new source of drinking water, which also provides us with article 70a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u34	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Dušan Šiško on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u35	All in attendance, all in attendance! In the Slovenian National Party's Group, we have a solution to this problem, which arose this year in connection with the rice pipeline, as well as for future problems. Crassus offers a solution, offered years ago, but was rejected by coastal congregations. Under Yugoslavia, the military decided to build the Brest water supply. This is related to the Brestic cover, which is below sea level, where drinking water is located. The quality of water from these sources is exceptional. The flow of water is good, the infrastructure is built to some extent, and the pumps already exist. The water in this cover does not dry up. Coastal municipalities, such as Izola, Piran, Koper, rescue water supply by means of a rice water supply. But they never used the Brest water. This coastal area is very sensitive, because it represents the Kraški Edge and, on the other hand, a very transit area due to Luka Koper. What happens on the planet is a long-term highly unreliable source of drinking water. There is a fifth trans-European rail corridor in the area of the Krske Edge, through which all the pigs are transported, as all the goods at issue go to the railway in most cases. Of course, there are some goods on the roads as well, and both corridors have a clear area of the rice pipeline, so it is very important to avoid a similar disaster this year. It is necessary to place built transport infrastructure and water infrastructure on the scale. In our view, it is easier to provide adequate water resources than to change transport infrastructure. It is a fundamental mission of the Ministry of Environment and Space to ensure sustainable development. Undoubtedly, this guidance also includes a solution to the long-term supply of drinking water for the inhabitants of the coastal municipalities. We propose that the Ministry examine all possibilities for linking the coastal municipality drinking water infrastructure with the Brest water supply. Such a link would mean safe and stable water supply to the coastal communities in 100%. It should also be in the interest of coastal municipalities to co-finance such connections and to avoid the disasters that have taken place this year. The current work on the rice pipeline by deepening existing wells and drilling new wells are by no means a long-term solution. Please think about the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u36	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group member's position. Now you have the floor, Mr Zvonko Černač, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u37	It's a nice greeting to all present, especially to the Minister. I have to say, over what he said, I'm a little disappointed. Given that it has been almost three months since this question was raised in the National Assembly on 9 July and the required discussion on the answer, which Member Simonovic felt was inappropriate. Given that the Minister had then announced in his reply quick solutions and that almost three months had passed, I was today expecting concrete answers to specific questions. In these three months, the team at the Ministry of Justice should examine the seven variants that are still on the table, and if there is any new reality, present these things today and present the witch, until when this final decision will be taken and who will be involved in this process. Unfortunately, today, despite the fact that the minister still has an hour to say it, we probably won't hear it, given what has been said in the first place. I would also like to turn back a little while ago, given that this search for an appropriate solution with water supply of the coast goes very far back, I will also point out some milestones on this path that I think are most important because time is not enough for everyone. It should be borne in mind that there is a need to provide an additional resource for the water supply of the coast and, above all, a replacement resource, that they have thought about this very far back. Such thinking dates back to the 1950 ’ s, when water consumption on the coast was significantly lower than consumption today. At that time, consumption was lower than a million cubic metres, and the consumption increased rapidly in the 1970 ’ s to 4 million cubic metres, almost doubling to 7 million cubic metres in the 1980 ’ s. This movement is likely to increase further. It is more than clear that the existing supply, based on the Rižan water supply and the addition from the Republic of Croatia and from the Kraske water pipeline from Klarici pri Brestovica and this supplement from the Istrian water pipeline Buzet, where the coverage, which, under the arbitration agreement, belonged to the Republic of Croatia, is not sufficiently sufficient for these additional sources. It has already been said by the proposer or a Member who asked this question that a concrete step on improving water supply and providing a backup water source was taken only in 2004 when the Ministry of State adopted and published in the Official Journal a programme for the preparation of a state-run plan for the management of drinking water supply of the Slovenian Istrian and the hinterland region. In this preparation programme, two accumulations were envisaged as the most appropriate solution, namely on the watercourse of Pades and on the watercourse of Suhorek. Later, as it went along this path, it was found that the investment in the accumulation of the fall was enormously high, with some 80 million euro being numbers. Other complications of a formal, environmental nature and so on have emerged on this path. As a result, this route did not continue and this project was stopped. The important milestone is February 2011, when, at the proposal of the Ministry of Environment and Space between the Ministry and the nine coastal and karst municipalities, a contract was signed on the preparation, implementation and operation of the drinking water supply system of the coast and Kras. The aim was to build water systems in the karst area, to provide for an additional 200 litres per second of additional water for the coast and the municipality of Sežana was designated as the carrier and the coordinator of the Kraški voivodeship. Cohesion funds have also been provided. For the most part, from cohesion, a small proportion of the municipality's funds in the previous financial perspective 2007-2013. Why didn't you go this way? Because the bearer didn't do the job. The holder failed to meet the formal conditions, did not obtain service, did not obtain permits. As a result, the State concluded in 2014 that there is no conditions for this project to be implemented, since it should be completed by the end of 2015 in the light of the financial perspective 2007-2013. As a result, this procedure was halted and the project could not be implemented. A further step in the last six years of 2013-2019 represents the activities of the Rižan water pipeline, which mainly went towards the salting of saltwater. There was a pilot in the marina of Koper, and the investment was estimated at EUR 20 million, but at the end there was a conclusion of the profession that this path for Slovenia, which is full of clean drinking water, is not real. The reflections that have occurred in the last three, four years have been the link to the Tržaška voivodship. These thoughts aren't right either. Water is, in my opinion, a strategic raw material like oil, even more than oil, and it is not good for strategic raw materials to become too attached to our neighbours, no matter how friendly we are with them, not to the Republic of Italy and not to the Republic of Croatia. Slovenia must act in the opposite direction. We have so much water that we can sell it to our neighbors if we manage it economically and rationally. In all these thoughts, however, it is interesting that no one, but also today's minister, has specifically mentioned this, has not raised an idea that was not just an idea, but that there was even an idea, and this idea was mentioned by Mr Simonovic when he asked the question on the water source Malna near the Mountain on 9 July. This idea was drawn on paper as an idea project in 1965, far away in 1965, when there were completely different circumstances, when water consumption was significantly lower and when the then fixed water supply was in relatively poor condition. The same was true of water Malni and so on. Why can Malni today, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, be an even more realistic and relatively favourable solution to the provision of additional and spare resources for the water supply of the coast, as they represented in 1965? Water Malni, water Korotan, the entire water system of the brewing valley, the water system that powers the municipality of Postojna and Pivka, and all the other infrastructure associated with it have been renovated or rebuilt to 90 % of the cohesion funds of the current financial perspective 2014-2020. This project, and ten others worth almost EUR 300 million, was already included in cohesion funding during the previous perspective 2007–13 in 2012 during the second Janša government under the so-called overcommitment. It was for areas that, through the reconstruction of water systems, provide a clean and quality drink to over 600,000 people in this country. These projects are largely completed because they were ready for funding in the previous perspective, they were ready to go, and they started immediately after the formality with a new financial perspective, according to 2014-2020. So, despite a short mandate, the other Janša government, unlike the successor who deals with the registration of the right to drinking water in the Constitution, has made sure that this right is also exercised by means of concrete decisions. As I said in the introduction, there should also be a pipeline among these projects to provide better water supply to the coast, but unfortunately there was no water supply for the carrier because he did not perform the task in time. It was stopped in 2014. The first reason why we believe the water source Malenščica or Malni is appropriate is because of the new water supply. The second reason is that this plumbing reaches the Košanska Valley and closes at a very short distance to the water supply provided by the Kraški water supply, from which the Obala already receives significant amounts of water, almost half of it in the driest period. The third reason is the quality of water. And the fourth reason is the quantities available. According to the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment, the minimum expenditure of the source Rižana is 0.2 cubic metres per second. Malenščica’s minimum expenditure is five times higher and is 1.1 cubic metres per second. On 9 July, the Minister was asked to provide water supply to the coast, given that the existing capacities of the rice pipeline are already insufficient and that four coastal municipalities are already supplied with two additional resources through the Kraske Voivodeship of Sežan and the Istrian water pipeline Buzet. In response, the Minister did not provide satisfactory explanations, but then said that in two days, 11 days. 7. This is confirmed today by both the representatives of the municipalities and the Directorate of Water and Investment and the Directorate of Water, at the Ministry, to initiate this process, what has already been done in the past, which are the best solutions. He said that in the past there were nine, one of them that was an unacceptable status quo. Then the second one he mentioned was a salinization, which he mentioned was absolutely out of the question. And he continued, "We have seven others to shake now, which is best in terms of water, stability, economic eligibility and so on. The option that we will decide on – or maybe two – will be considered as a matter of maximum priority. We will consider the maximum priority in our ministry, so that this will be done very quickly in this work." End of quote. And today the Minister is here after almost three months, and today we would like to hear what these two variants have now been studied and what are the two variants that will continue and what is the timeline. Because, according to our assessment, only the ministry will not be able to do so. I think this is more about support. In any event, the municipalities will have to come together in this project, to identify a specific institution that will carry out these procedures, which I believe must not be someone who is already known to be unable to carry out these tasks. It must be someone who has already worked on these projects successfully, because this is the only marriage that will then be achieved in life. Personally and also in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that this time would be wasted today, unless the Minister continues to say something. But I must say that we support what he said about the starting point. He talked about the assumption that resources and transport through the Republic of Slovenia should be sought at stable water sources – we agree, water is a strategic resource; that existing resources should be used as much as possible and that the best way to find a solution is to come from the economy. It means choosing solutions that will also be financially optimal. We support all of this. However, we do not support this time vacuum because it was said that this group met on 11 July and again only yesterday. This, in our view, is unnecessary. There are many teams at the Ministry, in our opinion this area is managed and can, on the basis of the data that exist, in different databases and in records, in a relatively short time make an evaluation between individual solutions. So we expect more concrete clarifications from the Minister further, and we would like to hear in particular the timetable by which this project is to continue and how and in what way this task should be entrusted to the institution that it will also be successfully concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u38	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Robert Pavšič on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Good day to you all, dear colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is not traditionally rich in natural goods, such as mines, gas or oil, but has several other comparable advantages, especially natural ones. Great complacency and water are the good that world experts predict will be crucial in the future. We can replace oil with alternative sources, but we can't use water. But let's look beyond reserve water resources and explore different conceptual options. That is why we are here today — to provide drinking water to Slovenes and Slovenians. This new constitutional category also requires careful protection, but let us first ask ourselves whose responsibility is actually water. Surely the system is in the first place, i.e. all branches of government, then there are different institutions operating under the auspices of the State. NGOs, civil initiatives, local self-government and so on are also important. And what does all this show? That access to drinking water is one of the key issues, not only in Slovenia, but globally. Therefore, the responsibility to provide reliable water resources is also ours, personal. It is the responsibility of individual municipalities and mayors, it is the responsibility of the state, it is the responsibility of all people on this planet. And it is necessary to take extreme responsibility and, above all, to be sustainable in the long term. Today we are dedicated to the last event, which has, until now, had no impact on human health, but has reopened the key issues not only for users of the rice pipeline, but for all the inhabitants of our country. How many similar water systems are there in Slovenia? Anyone in this situation can identify and detect certain dangers. We have the same situation as on the coast as we do in the area of the inland and coastal region, especially at the so-called Počku – previously mentioned the water cover of Malna, this is what the colleague mentioned. Water carriers in the karst region are particularly sensitive and dependent on various activities. The risks are mainly environmental interventions, industry, agriculture and other activities. Systematic changes are therefore necessary in the whole of Slovenia. For each water area, it is particularly necessary to establish such rules of action that will in the long term ensure the protection of individual water resources and consequently human health. And yet there is a feeling that the state has not done enough to establish such a state. At least not fast enough. We are still waiting for a number of these areas for water protection regulations, more intensive inspection and effective protection measures. The events from Rižana are only a reason for more concrete pressure on both the competent authorities, in particular the Ministry of the Environment, as well as on this institution, to adopt or at least support the relevant legislation. But responsibility is also at the local level. Water must not be dominated by only the narrowest local interests, but must be understood and captured throughout the picture. It is the end of the end, as has already been pointed out, not only for the exercise of pressure, but for the rational use and use of this water. Of course, we expect a rapid response from the Ministry and appropriate professional solutions, while policy must be uniform at all levels. This area must by no means become a room for the nobility of political capital. So far, at least in this debate, which has taken place, or in the presentation of views, this has taken place very constructively, but I fear that it can quickly turn to just this – the possibility of cheap populism and more concrete proposals and solutions. Today will certainly be the hardest time in this room to be Minister of the Environment. We expect action from him justifiably, without delay. There is certainly a number of experience behind us in this area, many missed opportunities, a long history of non-action, and patience is getting smaller, and so is the case. People are rightly concerned about past events. In most aquifers in Slovenia we still have the possibility of preventive measures, and sometimes this option is no longer available. Take this tragic event, which we can certainly call one of the last warnings of nature. For we come and go, but the earth is only one; Rizana is only one; water is only one. Let us step together today and take a step forward in this area at least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u40	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mag. Meira Hot, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Drinking water and water resources pose such important human issues that they clearly deserve protection at constitutional level. In 2016, the National Assembly adopted a new 70.a Article of the Constitution, which stipulates that everyone in our country has the right to drinking water. The same article further states that water resources are public good, which, following a halt, serve as a priority and sustainable supply of drinking water to the population and must not represent market goods. So it's a public good that's in government. When a freight train left the country at the end of June in Dol pri Hrastovje on one of the most burdened railways in the country, it was not a natural accident, nor was it a higher force, but there was an ordinary railway accident, although the spill of kerosene threatened groundwater or drinking water from the water source, on which 75 % of the whole Istrian region depends, we are talking about good 90,000 people. Unfortunately for us, because of the clairvoyant state of our railway infrastructure, such an accident has in fact been a long time threatening and the country should be prepared much more than it was. For decades, ever since 1965, Istránka and Istria have been strongly reminded of the fact that it is a stable, clean water source of vital importance to us. The country seems to have listened to us several times, but it didn't understand us. When that railway accident occurred, however, all the shortcomings of coordinated or effective action to remedy the consequences were also well exposed. This year in Istria we also rejoined politically and in this place I very much welcome the awakening of the closer cooperation of Istrian municipalities, Piran, Izole, Kopra and Ankara, which sent several common demands to the Ministry after the aforementioned railway accident, from which I should point out three most important: the immediate implementation of all necessary measures and activities to prevent pollution of the only water source for Slovenia's Istria, the presentation of a timely plan to ensure the activity of a sufficient and safe water source for Slovenia's Istria, the control of railway and road infrastructure over water protection areas. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Environment and Space has not yet given concrete answers to the request of the municipalities, so we are still waiting and expecting them. The Mayor of the Municipality of Koper also responded to the independence of the state authorities and called on the Government to provide information on activities related to the new water source for Istria. I note that such a lack of response by the authorities, when we are threatened by an ecological disaster, is unfortunately further reducing confidence in the ability to resolve the problem. We have seen encouraging news in the media about the population in Slovenia and in Crassus, that by the end of 2015 the country will have completed almost 50 million of the Coastal and Crassus Drinking Water Supply project, for this purpose more than 26 million euros from the state or European budget. The project of the southern coastal municipalities is intended to build or reconstruct 47 kilometres of transport lines and 118 kilometers of primary and secondary water pipes. Water losses are also expected to decrease significantly. Unfortunately, there have been no realisations due to the many reasons that I will give below. Let's go in one order. Preparations for a project to address the exceptional drinking water situation in Slovenia and Crassa range back far back in 2007. The municipalities of Koper, Izola, Piran, Illyrian Bistrica, Koman, Sežana, Divaca, Hrpelje - Kozina, Miren - Kostanjevica signed a contract on the preparation, implementation and operation of drinking water systems of the coast and Kras in early February 2011. That same year, a document of identification of the investment project was also produced. The Municipality of Sežana was selected as the main municipality of the project and as the coordinator of the project Kraški voivodship. After four years of silence followed by known and unknown causes, a meeting of all stakeholders was held at the Ministry of Environment at former Minister Iren Majcen, and the Minister then found that the main obstacle to the creation of the project in addition to the acquisition of services was also represented by diametrically opposed municipal views on the concept of the construction of the pipeline itself. It was also complicated with the issue of financing transport pipelines, the issue of the national location plan and forces in the unnecessary assessment of environmental impacts on water pumping. Unfortunately, the design of the new pipeline has also been complicated by the prestigious question of which municipality will be the institution of this project, which, of course, has further delayed the start of its serious implementation. Therefore, the project did not continue in the financial perspective 2014-2020. Individual partial attempts to solve this problem with futuristic projects, such as costly sea-saltification and Cuban stockers, have never had a more serious chance of success. In fact, in the last few years, all municipalities of Slovenia’s Istria have a significant water supply problem, and more frequent groundwater and drinking water pollution are also occurring, so we are often faced with reduced drinking water during the tourist season. Thus, in the 21st century, we do not have any stable water source, let alone a spare solution for it. Let me welcome the decision of the Environment Ministry, which, following the June railway accident and the spilling of 10 cubic cubic metres of kerosene, immediately convened a working group in which plumbers, together with the mayors of Istrian municipalities and experts, determine what should be done in a highly vulnerable coastal area first to protect people. I am pleased that this Commission will finally assess what, or what, many of the many prepared studies on drinking water solutions are expected to cover. However, the information that this Commission, or even the new Commission, should decide for at least two years which water resources and what risks all come into play in regulating the situation in question is absolutely unacceptable. There has been more than enough time for this in recent years, and now there is no time. In Istria right now, we have an ecological disaster with a delay. There are thousands of gallons of kerosene in the earth right now during this meeting, our only water source can be polluted! There's no time. There are questions on the ground about what the country will do if an environmental disaster occurs again in this vulnerable area. What will happen if the drinking water simply runs out because of the prolonged dry seasons? Do we have a solution for over 90,000 Primorks and Primors, or will we simply say that either natural or disaster as we witnessed this June should simply wait for a period of two years, three years? Are we aware that in the event of a possible recurrence of kerosene or other toxic substances into the groundwater, the inhabitants there will depend solely and solely on the water purchased? Are we aware that there will then be so many water reductions that the entire existing pipeline will simply need to be shut down? Will we then set up a fire truck in Tartini Square with water so that people with kangaroos can pick it up? There is simply no time for new studies. We need to move from words to actions. The time has come for the profession to specify everything so far, and it has been established that out of the seven options for long-term drinking water supply it will choose the most appropriate way to finally provide people with a water source for long-term and stable drinking water supply for the wider region of Slovenia's Istrian region and the icy area. However, in their choice, they should only listen to local communities. There's something else I'd like to point out. With the year when we wrote down the right to drinking water in the Constitution, systems were launched in more than 150 million Euros worth a new watershed. And instead of toasting the inhabitants of Pomurje today with pure drinking water, the municipalities, in particular on the right bank of Mure, accuse each other of using some cohesion projects for partisan interests. What am I trying to say? First of all is the design, exploration of options and weighing of different studies or variants. In the case that we are dealing with today, we can say that we are well equipped with materials and labs and that we can start a project without excessive time gaps in a very short time. The readiness for constructive cooperation between coastal municipalities has also improved, relations have normalised, which can only be an additional incentive for you, the distinguished minister, as well as for the professionals, and not least for all of us in the temple of democracy, to take final care of our citizens in this area. It is precisely because of the experience and difficulties of not respecting the cohesion commitments in the east of the country where they drink pure drinking water, but also at the price of the scaled relationships, that I appeal to all those responsible in the Slovenian and Kras drinking water supply project, that they already conclude today that the project must be created in clean, designated terrain and not with figs in their pocket. Respected and respected, more than 90 thousand people and residents of Slovenian Istria and Crassa have not lived in accordance with the rights protected by the Constitution for a long time. They are not to blame alone and we must help them and act immediately. I appeal to everyone to at least now put aside economic, local, environmental or political appetites and to focus on the human being, our citizens and the citizens we simply owe them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u42	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Gregor Perič on behalf of the Modern Centre Party Group. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Nice greetings, colleagues and guests from the Municipality of Koper, the mayor and everyone else interested! As we know, this issue has been very burning for a very long time. We also know that at the end of June both Slovenian Istria and finally Slovenia were shaken by news of the removal of the freight train in the tunnel in Dol pri Hrastovje. In this accident, several wagons were damaged, leaving some 10,000 litres of kerosene. The marines immediately knew that this accident meant something to us, that it was a threat to our only water source. The accident itself has once again highlighted the most critical point, namely the absence of alternative water resources, which Slovenia's Istria still needs. Discussions on how important it is to provide an additional water source for Slovenia's Istria have been taking place for years and decades, but specific discussions and activities, especially at the local level, are being activated mainly in cases of an emergency, an accident. In the event of this last accident, the water supply of the rice pipeline itself due to the rapid response of all services at the local level, as well as the action of the Ministry of Environment and Space under the leadership of Minister Simon Zajc and other competent authorities, was not compromised. And here goes the thanks to all those who have made every effort to ensure the safety of the water. Thanks and thanks are also given to the Environment Agency, which has regularly and several times daily informed and improved those introductory ambiguities, so that additional wells have been made and very strictly monitored what is happening on the ground. We advocate universal access to clean drinking water in the SMC, and we also supported the entry of drinking water into the Constitution in the previous term. Not only do we support this at the principle level, we also demonstrate our activities under the previous mandate in addressing the water source problem for Slovenia's Istria, which is often forgotten. In the SMC we were the main supporters and also the driving force to make things move forward. Indeed, by presenting the problem of obtaining particular service, which was at the time when the European funds were being spent or used, we were then informed by the Government, which listened to us and consequently prepared a novel on the Agrarian Communities Act, where one of the problems we have heard today was concerned. And, as it is said, this was then one of the main obstacles to the realization of that project, which then did not get into practice. Instead – and fortunately at least – European funds have been used – hydraulic improvements to the water system in Istria worth 12 million euros and a half, of which European funds amounted to good 7. In the framework of this project, 21 kilometres of primary water lines were built, two watercourses were upgraded, and one water supply was newly built. With this project, 50,000 people receive better and safer drinking water supplies. And if we can learn anything from history, it must be pointed out above all that in the past, European resources have been provided for the provision of drinking water for the provision of Slovenian Istra, which unfortunately was not used for this purpose in order to carry out this project because of the will of some mayors, and this is a great damage. Therefore, in the light of all this in the SMC, we call for as much involvement of Istrian local communities as possible and appeal to all stakeholders to ensure that, through constructive cooperation with the competent ministry, with the remaining relevant municipalities and other stakeholders, the best possible solution is found as soon as possible, which will, for the first time, be cost-effective and, secondly, ensure the sustainable and reliable supply of Slovenian Istria with drinking water, which is certainly not. We are also convinced that this time the mayors will show their readiness to resolve this problem and, in particular, their willingness to seek compromises. However, the Ministry of Environment and Space must offer all necessary support. However, as a policy, we are not called here and now to barter with different solutions without sufficient or appropriate professional basis. That's what a professional has to do. Then it'll be easier for us to decide. Today we have heard some of these variants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u45	Mr President, Minister with a team, Members and Members of Parliament! With great media attention, article 70a was added to the Constitution at the end of 2016, which explicitly wrote down the right to drinking water. The interested professional public rightly expected the addition of the Constitution to lay the groundwork for a more consistent exercise of the human right to clean drinking water and to encourage the necessary changes in the legislative field. The period following the completion of the Constitution showed that it was mainly a gesture of policy without the will to intervene in legislation. In three years, nothing's happened yet. The government has set up one Inter-Resort Commission, then transferred the tasks to another Inter-Resort Commission, which has been dealing mainly with itself for almost a year now, the implementation of constitutional requirements for the management of water resources, the priority and sustainable use of water resources for the supply of drinking water to the population, and neither the spirit nor the hearing. This summer, a railway accident occurred in Hrastovje, where more kerosene flowed from tanks to the ground. The accident took place in another water protection area of the Rižana River, the main water source for drinking water supply in all four coastal municipalities. It's a supply of just under 90,000 people. This number increases by another 30,000 during the summer months as a result of tourism. This is an extremely burdened water source, especially in summer, when the need for drinking water on the coast grows to up to 450 litres per second. For all of this reason, Ambassador Branko Simonovic referred to the Minister of Environment and Space in the question of the delegation and asked him what solutions he could see if the water source was polluted and what solutions he could see in providing an additional water source, so that even for residents currently dependent on the rice pipeline, the right to drinking water would be enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me remind you, this problem has been solved since 1965. On the one hand, we want to develop boutique five-star and green tourism, and on the other hand, we cannot provide even drinking water to residents and tourists. In the summer we were able to monitor for months so that we could not even provide clean bathing water. Thus, tourism does not develop, and this is not a relation to the inhabitants of the coastal municipalities, but it is even less respect for the provisions enshrined in the Constitution. I understand the people of the coastal municipalities about their basic rights, the right to drinking water, and I wonder what is happening in our beautiful Savina Valley, to be eliminated by two water sources. I would also like to know why, while we are arguing about the location of the fast road of the lower part of the north end of the third development axis, it is peaceful in the background to carry out exactly what the lobby has set itself. To ensure that everything is clear and complete, the regulation also confirms that the former government has destroyed water resources quickly and quietly only in order to have construction barons and those behind them less problems. In its explanation, the previous Government notes that the Water Protection Area Regulation for aquifers for the area of Šmartno ob Paki, Polzel and Braslovča was prepared as a matter of priority for the envisaged construction of the third development axis. Only a few months after the National Assembly placed the protection of drinking water in the Constitution. Dear coalition and dear government, rare are countries in the world that have the right to drinking water in the constitution. Why? Because it is logical, civil and ethical that people have the right to drinking water because it is the most basic good, the good that man has not created and is given to all. The problem in Slovenia, however, is that we do not regard the ruling one as anything. As a prominent coalition policy put it: “It can be written in a contract a hundred times, but it does not apply to me.” Clearly, even what is stated in the Constitution does not apply. How can we explain that we have not complied with nearly 20 decisions of the Constitutional Court? And they don't really care what the constitution says, they don't care that there's no water in Primorska, that two water sources have been cut off in the Savina Valley, and they don't care about people, the constitution, the constitutional right to drinking water, they just want to rule as long as possible. It is high time that we start to respect the Constitution and the legal order in Slovenia. As far as drinking water is concerned, in New Slovenia we want to stay not only in utilities and plumbing, but in drinking water supply systems we will also introduce smart and advanced technological solutions, such as real-time consumption monitoring, which would be available to all users, so that we can achieve more optimal consumption, or remote monitoring of key drinking water parameters, so that residents will be better informed about the water they drink.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u47	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Today we are discussing a problem whose roots are already in the near past. If the population of critical areas supplied by the rice pipeline is known for as long as the problem is known to the general public, the dimension of this problem has become known by the accident of the freight train in the tunnel near Hrastovje. At that time, when the train was removed from the tanks, a greater amount of kerosene expired. After the accident, everyone, not just the locals, lived in fear of how severe the consequences of the spillage on the rice pipeline would be and whether there would be an ecological disaster of unfathomable proportions. It is too much to stress how fundamental goods are involved in water and the right to safe and quality care. We were also aware of this in the SAB Group and in 2016 we achieved that the right to drinking water on our initiative was enshrined in the Constitution. The inhabitants of Slovenian Istria are already waiting for the proposal that the constitutional right to drinking water will also be effectively and smoothly guaranteed to them. That this is not yet true, says the fact that certain areas in Slovenia are not connected at all to the public water system in 2019. There is no secret that the search for a new water source is an extremely complex and challenging issue. This is also evidenced by a review of the historical developments concerning him. The search for solutions has never been questionable, as many stakeholders have been active in their efforts since the 1970s. The differences were accumulated, the number stopped at nine, but unfortunately they were all flawed or under-integrated. It's also because it's about providing different areas that are each for themselves and in their own way problematic. On the one hand, we have a karst landscape with our special features, and on the other, the coast, which is affected not only by drought in summer, but by the need for water, is rapidly increasing mainly due to tourism. We know that in finding a new water source, an additional aggravating circumstance is also a human factor. A lot of the consensus needed to do the work can make it extremely difficult to stop and complicate. And if not, he gets stuck with the money. State money or European funds. The profession will have to shake heads and finally find a solution to how to establish new infrastructure facilities for the purpose of a new water source. As already mentioned, long-lasting, obsolete and under-performing parts of the water system have been calling for a very long time after the renovation. The accident in Hrastovje was still the last alarm that the process of regulating the new water source must be taken seriously and strongly into account immediately. In addition, alarms are arranged each year, every summer, when the drought and tourist season occur. At that time, about 20% of the water is supplied to the Rižan water supply. Even without ecological or natural disaster, the rice pipeline does not provide all the needs, so a new water source for Slovenia's Istria is necessary. In my opinion, we have already had a good solution in the past on the table. The Coastal and Kras drinking water supply project would connect the Brestian, Illyrian Bistriski and Rižan water supply and provide sufficient drinking water for Kras, Notranjska and Istria. Days ago, when reviewing the related documentation, I encountered an article in 2011. At the time, mayors and plumbers were so convinced of the success of this project that it was written down in the article, I quote: “When the pipeline is finished in 2015, Istria and Kras will be able to receive 220 litres of water per second and another 70 litres of water per second from the Illyrian Bistro water line.” “When it is”, he wrote. No conditioners, just the bare belief that the matter will be carried out. At the same time, it is difficult to remain indifferent in 2019, especially when cohesion funds for this project have already been acquired. We know that such outstanding projects are large and far from unique, and the fact is that there should not be any such unfinished projects in relation to the provision of such a fundamental right. In the SAB Group, we are convinced that a solution must be found on our soil. We must avoid options that include water production from Croatia. I also drew attention to the need for a new water source at the 10th regular meeting of the National Assembly with the question of the Member State. At that time, the Minister of the Environment ensured that the activities and removal of bureaucratic barriers were already under way. In the SAB Group, we expect that the maximum commitment and commitment of the ministry to finding optimum solutions after the accident in Hrastovje will not dry up, as will be the case. Slovenian Istria really needs a new water source as soon as possible, not that it will now take a year and a half to study. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u48	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. First, Minister Simon Zajc asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A brief summary of the views of all the Members. In presenting our views, we found that we have three best solutions. Three of the best. The Desus Group is convinced that this is a new accumulation of Padež, then we have the conviction in the Slovenian National Party's Group that it is Klariči and the third that we should link to the Water Coverage of Malni. And I tell you, on July 11th, when we first met in this working group, it was very similar. A lot of different opinions and points have already been made on this group that the choice will be the one that the advocate will speak most loudly. Convinced that they are right that everything has already been done, that we know what we are talking about, how much it will cost, when we can do it as we do now. [[…]] Everyone is convinced that it is the right one. But after the working group started reviewing the projects to which they were led, what data were taken into account, what analyses were made — what did they find? That there are very different data that all projects are at different stages, where they are led to the lack of input data, it is questionable that hydrological analysis should be done before they can even decide which one would be the best. When I answered the question, I expected that the working group – given what has been told me all along, that everything has already been ready, that everything has already been known that there has been so much done in the past, that we just have to decide what to do and go – will really look at all of this and that it will be able to decide the best option. In this working group, both representatives of the municipalities and representatives of the plumbers, our ministry, met twice, in between four more times to review, and we have come to a similar situation here today. Therefore, several variants have been brought to different stages in the past, and all have been found to have shortcomings, to have weaknesses in calculations, to have little or too little input data, and to have too little precision that all of these options should be brought to the same starting point. And they came together, including the mayors, to this solution that we're going to have to do it. Why is it necessary to do that all studies, all variants, are brought to the same denominator? So that when we decide on one, on the one hand, the other, obviously, why did you go to the Fall, but if it is clear that the Little One is the best solution – how do we know that the Fall is the best or the Little One is the best if we don't have the same starting point, the same denominator? I think it's wise that we do this, so that we bring all possible variants to the same denominator. What criteria do we need to find a new water source? This has been determined by this working group, namely, the key starting points are the need to ensure stable water resources and a system for drinking water supply in the wider region, i.e. the Slovenian Istrian region and the rear area, the areas of Crassus and Ilirska Bistrica. Water resources and transport pipelines must be located in Slovenia. As has already been said today, water needs to be taken care of so much that in our area, we are not dependent, as we are on other things, such as waste, which is also present. Interventions shall not affect the state of the aquatic environment. Long-term provision of appropriate quantities and appropriate quality of raw water. It is necessary to provide a water source with as little potential as possible for the risk both of quantities and of the quality of raw water. The hydrographic characteristics and limitations must be taken into account, the connections of the three water systems must be ensured and the safe and sustainable supply of drinking water to the population and the greater cost of operation must be ensured. Again, as I have already said in my position, it is not only that we provide water, but that water must not be terribly expensive. If we decide on the basis of insufficient data for one solution and then, at the end of that solution, we find that it is, say, cheaper to buy water from abroad — what will we say then? It will be difficult to defend that we have made a decision on the basis of who was louder than on the basis of some relevant data. It is necessary to ensure that existing water resources, installations and pipelines are used to the greatest extent possible. What we already have makes sense, if possible, to use, also with the aim of achieving the desired results as soon as possible, taking into account the economic and financial sustainability of the project. On the basis of these criteria, the group has identified three possible variants, which must now be looked at in more detail and placed on the same denominators. The first is the use of existing water resources with two variants. One option is the Clarice, that is to draw water from the Clarice and the other from Malni. Second, the provision of additional amounts of water from already built accumulations, namely Mola and Klivnik, or River River. And thirdly, provide a new water source by implementing a new accumulation stream Falling by accumulation Fall or one of the possible subvariates. All three possible options will now be reviewed, which has not yet been done. Depending on which experts who were advocating a solution were louder, more pervasive, then favoured it, and never put it on the same denominator. The fall was, for example, already selected, but then, within the 2004-2008 mandate, they decided after a meeting with the Court of Auditors to do an external audit, and the external auditor found that, given the costs, this solution would not make sense and then stopped. Then 2011, there was a second solution, a series of problems, both by aligning with the mayor and by obtaining the service and so on and not being implemented. Given that since 1965 we have been talking about this with more or less intensity, I believe that everyone would like me to tell you today, yes, we have decided that the country has 100 million ready to invest, or 50, whatever. But I'm afraid I can't tell you that today because we don't have a basis for making that decision. However, as a country, I think we need it, based on up-to-date and real data, but then, depending on the risk or the shortcomings that each solution brings, we will have to decide which solution we are going into. But the question is, of course, what's in it now. We had an accident on June 25th, and kerosene is still somewhere. Of course, monitoring is carried out regularly, but there may also be some other obstruction or other event that will make it impossible to pump the Rigan water supply again. In the meantime, technical improvements need to be made now in order to obtain more water from the Istrian water supply and from the karst, so that we have this short-term plan B, this backup is now ready before it is added or selected and is implementing a new solution. We've changed the constitution. It is true that all legislation should be adapted in the previous term, and this has unfortunately not happened. We in our ministry are coordinating the preparation of the harmonisation of this legislation. We'll be done with our work by December. The first law – I think in one position it was also said that we have not done anything yet, not the spirit or the hearing, but – you get now in short, this is the water law, where we will start co-financing smaller water lines to the congregations, that is, those water lines for which it is not possible to obtain European funds, precisely because where congregations are too weak to build smaller water lines or buy existing private ones, we help the congregations. This is the first step that will happen this year, and then by the end of the year, there will be other changes. When we changed the constitution, we need to remember what was the main purpose or the main reason why we wrote this down in the constitution, that we raised the legal system, which, at the time, we all agreed, very good, to the protection on the constitutional level. The main reason was that we wanted to prevent water resources from being privatized, and that's what we've achieved. That was the main purpose. At that time, it was also agreed that the existing system should work as it is now, so that the municipalities are still in charge of water supply because we have found that the current system works well. So that the changes we are preparing go primarily to control, including the price-setting criteria and some other measures. As I said, by the end of the year, our group will have completed this work, and then the legal changes will come to you. It's the first one this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Simonovic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Chairman. First of all, I'm going to end up with a question that I had extra for the minister prepared because I'm running out of time. Mr. Minister, I ask you again, and I expect you to provide us with an additional water source, provided by the 70.a Article of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, through the re-examination of the practice already established, with the authority and respect you have. And speaking of which, I will also touch upon your debate. I agree that there is a need to make a cut on some of the points that have been made. I also agree that this needs to be put on a common denominator. Dear Minister, I cannot agree at all that the deadline for carrying out the project task and activities you have prepared is from 15 to 21 months. It's unacceptable to us. I have somehow seen from the views of the members of the groups that we are united, that this problem needs to be resolved as soon as possible. In particular, because the criteria and the professional bases you set for this working group in the assessment of variants on the same denominator are not significantly different from that study in 2002. So maybe there's a way to shorten some phase that's in between. I wouldn't speculate which one's good. What the fellow Member said was true, it started in 1965, the version of Malni, but let the profession say so. Dear Minister, I know that the problem is difficult, complex, and different concepts. But basically, you have the ball. You're the one who needs to get both professional and mayors on some common denominator. And I am asking you for a time-table when the people of Slovenian Istria will be able to reach such a necessary water source. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew Tashner Vatovec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The question raised by colleague Branko Simonovic at the previous meeting, which he also opens today, is actually about two matters. One thing is actually what caused this situation, which we now have, is real traffic, and the other, of course, is the issue of water resources. And if I go to the cause of the question that has arisen. A kerosene spill. When the debate began in the previous term on the finalisation of the second track, I also met several times with the local Krajevna Community of Black Kal and we took one walk along the current railway line. At that time, they often said that such things could happen as they did in June of this year. Long-lasting tracks, extremely tense clocks that require trains to drive, and consequently strong braking due to speeds that may also pose a risk of extinction. This is exactly the combination that happened this time. We understand that this is some kind of alarm that has now triggered all the necessary, but the issue is significantly broader. The issue of this accident, which has taken place in Hrastova, is the issue of our transport links, here in particular the second track, the question that we will have to retire the current railway track, because it is not only in the water protection area, but also in the Natura 2000 area, and the question of how far we want to go with Luka Koper. In Levica we have always advocated that the second track is needed to build it, but we have always added that we should start to think about the growth limits of Luke Koper. The transshipment in Luka Koper is growing rapidly despite the fact that there is no second track and that essentially the railway connection to the port is still the same as it has been for the past few decades. This, of course, also poses a risk in itself. Risk is also a commodity that follows these routes. Not only is kerosene, which is, of course, highly toxic or difficult to capture and destroy, but other substances transported to Luka Koper are very dangerous and pose a great risk to nature and the environment. Here we have the issue not only of transport connections, not only of adequate environmental protection on these transport links, but also of whether or not it is necessary to start thinking about some environmental transformation of the port of Cyprus. That is to say, which are those substances, or which are those goods to be transported in the port of Kore Koper, and which are also to be placed in some environmental policy and through the control mechanisms that the Republic of Slovenia has in the Port Koper control council, this is also to be taken into account in the annual plans prepared by the administration. Finally, we also have here the issue of cruise ships, which are often hosted every season in Cyprus and which, according to all known research, are one of the largest pollutants. This is also a question that is directly linked to the port of Kore and to the management of this pier. This is now part of this question, the real cause of this accident. The reason that we had this problem in summer in Istria, which fortunately did not result in reductions, but all indicated that this could also happen, is in fact some unregulated policy also in the area of transport, port management and infrastructure itself. If we put this aside, what is the key issue of this debate is the question of a water source. And this is not a question that started in June this year, but a question that lasts for at least a few decades. Rižana’s water supply, or water source, was in some continuous upgrade from the start of operation to the 60 ’ s, 70 ’ s, 80 ’ s. It was clear at the time that there was no spare source and that Rizana alone could not provide any stable primary source that could supply sufficient drinking water for ever. With the growth of tourism, with the growth of the population, clearly this water source is increasingly unstable. The question of this reserve source, despite the search being made, the minister said that the versions had already been confirmed and then eliminated, is a question that should be resolved as a country and, of course, with the help of local communities sooner or later. The key question here is why this thing's been dragging around for so long. Why, I don't know, there's no proposal for the Water Directorate to do some thorough study and make a decision that took place substantially earlier. Since the question of the reserve water source for Istria is not a question from June this year, it is a question, as has been said, for at least two decades, if not more. We can understand that the matter is moving forward now and that this study will be done and then also a decision taken, but you must, Minister, also on the other hand, understand that on the other hand, this impatience or expectation that this thing will be completed as soon as possible is justified, because simply, as it is said, every drought, every summer season is an essential destabilisation of this water source. We also know that with environmental changes, the water level itself, or the flow of Rižana River, is increasingly weak or increasingly fluctuating. So we have a clear situation where this is no longer a stable water source that could supply the whole of Istria, and we need alternatives. There were also different ideas in the game, such as desalination and similar things, but what is important in this debate is to provide some stable basic source of drinking water to provide a resource that will also be a backup source and that will ensure this stability, and above all that will not depend on others. We cannot afford to import water from other countries, and we must make sure that, as has been mentioned many times today, what we have been able to write into the constitution in the previous term will also actually apply. While I am joining the criticism that it has probably been insufficiently done in the field of legislation on the implementation of constitutional changes. It is true that the main objective of protecting water from privatisation, that we are on a nominal level, is to write down into the constitution, arrived, but we know that a whole range of sectoral laws that need to be amended, so that the other consequences of this article of the Constitution will then be taken into account. I join the concerns of the people and people of the Istrian municipalities on this issue, I think that there is a need for a hearing and, last but not least, an appeal at the Ministry to seek, in cooperation with the local communities or coastal municipalities, to find this solution as soon as possible. So, okay, the Water Directorate has set this deadline a year and a half, if it's possible to shorten this deadline, it would be significantly better. I understand that each has its own preferences, in particular, the water source Malni is also something that is threatened by military exercises at Počko and pollution from this source, so that is another story and should also be addressed. I understand that there are different alternatives, that there are probably different interests in each solution offered, but I think that there have been some discussions on these solutions, so that this time for a final decision could be reduced a little bit. Above all, we must finally make one decision and make one.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I miss more similar discussions than we have today. There are normally parliamentary questions and then procedural proposals for the State Assembly to hold a debate on the response of the Minister or the President of the Government, the tools of the opposition Members. This time, I particularly welcome this initiative of respected colleague Simonovic, and, as it is said, there are many areas that simply call for similar discussions as today on this issue, which at first appears to be somewhat locally coloured, or otherwise based on the Slovenian Constitution. I'll continue here, colleagues and colleagues. If the amendments to the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia had been adopted 30 years ago, 81 of them would have been taken as seriously as 70.a., which speaks of the right of everyone to drinking water, then today we would not have a country of our own. Then adopted amendments to the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia, tomorrow will be 30 years old, somehow pushed the way into Slovenian independence, parliamentary democracy and also the market economy. So it would be good to set an example here. Indeed, the Constitution is not an enforceable act, so we need laws, laws are those that actually dictate how a particular matter is to be carried out or how a particular matter, as enshrined in the Constitution, should be implemented. I'm not going to hurt anyone now, and I'm going to repeat, and I'm going to recall what some of us said at the time, including the professional public, and remember whether it's necessary to write down the right to drinking water into the constitution, whether this 70.a. needs to be done or not. There were a lot of debates, it was true that I was a bit surprised, I simply did not understand why the whole government, Mr Miro Cerar and the ministers and ministers, sat here on November 17, 2016, when we voted on this change of constitution. I was critical at the time, and I agreed, as well as my colleagues and colleagues in the parliamentary group, that we actually have this right already in several articles of the Slovenian Constitution, and I said, among other things, that simply the New Slovenia Group will not participate in this water parade of pride. Among other things, I said that there would be an election in 18 months, and then everyone would fuck how this record of the right to drinking water into the constitution would be realized. I'm not a prophet, but I'm still standing behind what I said today. I am critical, and with this criticism, I wish to encourage the minister, not only the minister, the entire government, to make the commitment enshrined in the constitutional law, but it is as follows: “The laws governing the content and the new 70a of Article 70a of the Constitution must be brought into line with this constitutional law within 18 months of its entry into force.” In 18 months. This 18-month deadline is long overdue. At the end of this year, we will be recording just as late as the prescribed deadline here. So it's going to be 18 months late. I don't know. I don't have any information on what's going on in this area. It is true, once again, with a critical word here, I want to encourage the government and we will be very careful when the government adopts its normative work plan for next year. We want to see if the regional laws will change in accordance with Article 70a. Until that happens, colleagues and colleagues, we will continue to claim, as some colleagues from opposition parties have said, that this was more or less a pear action. And until something else, I'm very critical here. There was much talk at the time about preventing privatisation by means of this constitution. This is already prevented by other laws, thank God. But what's interesting? Here I emphasize, I am once again critical that usually those who speak so much that it is necessary to prevent privatisation, sale and so on, then they do so. More than that, not privatisation, but water support. Not drinking, we're talking about water resources in general. I wonder whether any other member of the European Union, the country, not the company, can now come to Slovenia and get permission from our Government to draw such or other water. This or it will happen in the far east of our country. When no multinational comes, no foreign company, no foreign company, but a neighbouring country as a country. I wonder if Slovenia has so much money that it will go to spend there, and it will spin one well, say, for the exploitation of geothermal energy and geothermal water, or whether the State of the Republic of Slovenia will get permission in the neighbouring country. And I'm very much able to do that to the Slovenians. And I'm just wondering if our country, our government, has so much more to do with it. On the other hand, it will give the neighbouring country permission, I am talking about a business entity called Terme Lendava, supported by a neighbouring country. It's not about privatisation. You must be looking at me here because you don't know. Of course you don't know what this is about. But apparently everything is allowed in Prekmurje, if, that is so far away from Ljubljana and so uninteresting in election votes, that we can put something small there that we still have. On the other hand, we must not exploit the hydropotential of the Mura River because such a political decision has occurred — this is not a professional decision — but we must not draw on gas and so on and so on. I am in favour of protecting the environment, absolutely, this is given to us on a vessel only for the few years we live on this planet, and we must then give it to the generations that come after us. As far as geothermia is concerned, if I'm local patriotic, here the minister has promised me that things will change from non-life provisions to living provisions. So I'm happy here that the minister somehow spent me on Monday when he answered my question. Of course I'll take his word for it. When we adopted this amendment to the Constitution, I, of course, asked then Minister of Finance Dr. Marble whether he had the financial resources in the budget to ensure this right. You mentioned some regional water supply today, of course I can mention once again the pomor water supply, as mentioned by colleague Meira Hot, which we started to implement because Goričko did not have water and Goričko does not have water today, at least some villages. But again, on my question, the Prime Minister promised me that there would be enough money, so that now system B, this is Goričko, but I guess it will build and Goričko will finally get drinking water and they will smile at the rights enshrined in article 70a of the Slovenian Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž German, after which he will receive the word of Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u57	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Colleagues, colleagues, good day on my behalf, too! It seems to me that there are certain challenges to this issue at a time when the General Assembly of the United Nations is just sitting and very high on the issue of sustainable development at a time when we are marking the week of mobility. We are talking about what woke us up in June to be even more aware than society, rather than politicians, of what a sensitive area we live in alone. We are very pleased to praise that we come from one of the greenest, forested countries in the European Union and the world, and we are very much pleased to boast that we have exceptional water resources, but we are very reluctant to be aware of how we deal with these natural conditions. Slovenia is full of water resources, but the awareness that we have to raise them, that we have to keep them, that we have to keep them, is still not present in everyday political developments. Let me mention that today I am preparing a letter for the Prime Minister of the Government with the initiative to follow the thematic meetings of the Government, the government meeting on the subject of environment, climate change, because with January 1st, what we signed in Paris will come into force, i.e. the Paris climate agreement. I think it is very important not only in the National Assembly, but above all in the Government to be aware of what our guidelines are, what our goals are and how we achieve them. Surely the accident that has taken place is encouraging the debate on sustainability, mobility and, of course, putting this sustainable development at the forefront. I see the efforts of Minister Rabbit in a positive light, I see the ministry in this case as part of the solution, not part of the problem. In this political dribbling, we are very pleased to point out, above all, where in the past there has been a sin in order to ensure sufficient, I will say, the coverage of water supply, particularly in the coastal and karst areas. I'm exposing that, but without neglecting any other area. When we talk about this case, we can transfer it to the territory of the whole of Slovenia. Let me tell you that I have been very touched by the information that, for example, the Soča River had the lowest watercourse in August since we measured the flow of this river. Why am I mentioning her? Because I would like to strengthen our awareness of how sensitive this area is, how human intervention can affect our living environment in time. In the event of an accident that raises many questions and calls for solutions, it is impossible to avoid local communities. These are in the coastal-Kraška area many times, and here I have to be critical, acting brakeically in the sense that this solution could already be on the table. The Minister presents certain solutions, of course we are justifiably critical, and here we encourage the ministry in particular to respond to these challenges in the short term as foreseen. I see that all the debaters are putting this above all; we need to take it more seriously immediately, at least as far as the timelines are concerned, to prepare possible alternatives. But it is in the local communities, and here is the rakrana of this problem when we talk about water supply mainly in the coastal and karst area, that local communities need to unite, decide, regardless of individual interests, what is best for the whole community. Not only for the inhabitants, but for the development of tourism and, of course, with all the consequences of this. We need to put a man at the forefront not only when accidents like those in Hrastov have taken place but they point out that profits cannot be at the forefront, in front of natural resources and in front of man himself. I think that this topic and this discourse are more than welcome today not only because it addresses this problem, but because it addresses many of the problems that touch our everyday life. I welcome today's debate. But my basic appeal goes mainly to two. To one extent to the Minister and to the Ministry, despite your commitment, we expect a somewhat shorter timeline, if I may say so, and, on the other hand, the representatives of the local community, whom I also welcome and are present today, to try to unify themselves in an objective that we could already achieve, and precisely because of our unanimity, we are so far away from it. Colleagues, colleagues and also local communities, I would just like to, and it is our responsibility to address those stakeholders who decide on these solutions in such a debate. Minister, I want you and the local communities to unify on key issues so that we can start preparing documentation as quickly as possible, so that we can get to an appropriate solution as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Dr. Ange Logar has the word, he'll get the word of Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u59	Thank you, Chairman. Today's debate is a result of a decision taken to hold a debate on the basis of the question put forward. It doesn't happen very often. It doesn't happen very often. It's not a question here on this side, but it's a question on your part why it rarely happens. My German colleague gave me a very good point when he said I welcome today's debate, today's debate is more than welcome. Do you hear those words? I also ask my German colleague — do you hear those words that you yourself have spoken? Today you have a minister here, you have representatives of the local community who, by the way, the mayors, could watch on television at home, but they came to the National Assembly because this debate is important. Many have said that they see the minister's role as well-intentioned. I believe that the Minister is also coming here with a clear conscience and a desire to have a discussion with Members. I therefore ask once again the coalition Members why, when the Members' questions are here, the subject of the agenda and the vote on them, you vote against them. Ask yourself whether because coalition parties have told you so, your bosses – then you do not respect the constitutional principle that you are independent – or because you do not want to discuss it here in the National Assembly. It is precisely the National Assembly that it is proper to go or the place for this debate to take place. The problem in Slovenia is that we always discuss things when they have happened. We're talking about write-offs to the Ljubljana Mayor's 29 million companies after this write-off has already taken place. We are discussing the bank hole after the bank hole has already been created. We are talking about rice water and water pollution when this tragedy or natural disaster occurred. Why?Oh, my God! Why can we not act preventively in Slovenia? Look, important actors in this country have been informed of all the dangers in time. They know that if you wake them up at three in the morning, they will tell you what a danger the railway line is across the water protection zone. The Ministry of Infrastructure had already commissioned a study on the existing railway line from the Slovenian Railways – Projective Company Ljubljana. And in this study, the minister was able to read, but I don't know if you've seen it, if you've been informed of it, they've probably had to, because if you haven't, they haven't done their job. See — Which side? – on the sixth page, under the main problem of the track, I will read a few indents: “The upper and lower structure is in poor condition, especially in the section of the Prešnica-Koper. The lower and upper structures were not built for such traffic loads, so they need a greater upgrade. Due to the saturation of the track and the very dense traffic on it there is almost no maintenance of the track. Corrections are usually limited only to the essentials in order to ensure the transportability of the track. Part of the line runs along the strictest water protection area, the line is not secured in case of spillage of dangerous substances.« Next: “In addition, the existing rail track, in large part of the water protection line, is carried out along the water protection area of the karst aquifer protected by the regulation” so much and so “from which drinking water of the water protection network Rižana is covered. Any spill in the rice aquifer area could thus cause great ecological and economic damage, as it is a rice aquifer of a karst nature where, due to the high overindulgence of Crassus, any spill of dangerous substances immediately appears in the aquifer.” It's been written for quite some time now, the ministries have had, the alarms should be ringing, and parts should start. It costs 165 million euros, the rehabilitation of the line. 165 million euros. On the second track, where it's supposed to be a billion 200, quite a lot of money. But as the minister said in the introduction, water resources are priceless and must be protected. In the introduction, the Minister stressed that everything must be done to ensure that drinking water supply disruptions no longer occur and that water resources are very vulnerable. In short, he highlighted the concern and spirit in the constitution of the written rule to drinking water. Let me remind you what colleague Simonovic asked the minister on that matter before summer holidays. Question number one: "What solutions do you see, Mr. Minister, if water source pollution occurs?" What did the minister say? I'll just read the first sentence. The Minister replied: “The first measure now being implemented is, of course, intended not to lead to water pollution.” And now I'm going back to that prelude when I was talking about prevention. This statement, this statement, Minister, is universal and universally used every time spatial plans are made in nature or when the issue of water resources protection arises. That the first step is to ensure that water pollution does not occur at all. Now I have another project, project C0 in Ljubljana, construction of sewer water across the water protection area. 300,000 people, including you, who are listening here today when using drinking water, are using it from that water protection area where the Ljubljana mayor is building you a sewer. The time of prevention is, I warn you, the time of prevention is, not curative, the time of prevention, but it does not want to be discussed in this National Assembly. In the case of the rice pipeline, if Minister Zajc is not guilty, he is responsible. In the case of Project C0, the Minister is also responsible for the fact that this project is being implemented during the period when he is Minister. On Monday, I asked the Minister about the construction of this channel C0, how the Ministry can continue to allow this threat of clean drinking water in the Ljubljana boiler, looking away, while on the other hand saying how the protection of water is a constitutionally defined category to be protected. And the Minister replied to me that they had prepared a call for a project documentation review. But if you are looking at this request for a project documentation review, you will find that in these requirements, which you are now demanding in this regard, you are not talking about content at all, but you are talking about technical modifications or modalities. You still – and I will read this sentence again, that the first step is to ensure that the polluted water source does not occur. Zero tolerance for pollution, says your new V.D. environmental inspectorate. At the same time, you're not talking about content, you're talking about technical matters. Any sane person, especially after experience with a rice pipe, would never say sewerage across the water protection zone. In Ljubljana, however, this is done and brutally builds on, and the Ministry checks the procedural documents, not the substantive documents. That is why I appeal to everything, I appeal, and you are in danger of a new disaster in Ljubljana, and you do not want to discuss it. And with the individual reviews that I support, that we will not get things wrong, but avoid the main issue, the substantive question, why is that channel even across the water protection area? Why that channel anyway? Because of the European funds? Because of a few million water pollution for 300,000 people? Especially since your cohesion chief is former candidate on Zoran Jankovic's list? Not that it probably has any connection, but interesting semantics or interesting yet. Whenever you, Minister, avoid substantive issues, such cases as the case of the rice pipeline may happen. As Minister, it's your fault if you let this happen. Once again, the review process, the preparation of all these checks, whether the procedural documentation was appropriate or all the procedures, will last for at least four months, and in the meantime the Ljubljana municipality will continue to build this pipeline, and in the end, as a state of affairs, you will be the ones responsible for the cohesion funds to pay for the construction of this pipeline. But there's no reason why this channel doesn't belong there, and you won't discuss it. And to conclude, you won't be discussing it here in the National Assembly either. Remember. Mr Simonovic, you have sent a good question, we have supported it, we are discussing it today, we can bring together two sides, both locally and ministerial, and also parliament. Now, tell me what the rice pipeline or tragedy or natural disaster is more important to you there than the Ljubljana water supply, if you are a member and elector of the Slovenian people. Why did you vote against having this question discussed in the National Assembly? Why?Oh, my God! I believe that the Minister would be happy to listen to this debate as well, and it would not be difficult for him to come here to listen to the debate on this issue. The question is whether the Ljubljana mayor would then come up to listen to this debate. That's the question. Therefore, I ask you all, when the environmental issue is on the agenda, look, but it has no color, no coalition or opposition. It all turns around, and once the environment is polluted, it becomes polluted and clean water is no longer available. They have several studies at the Ministry, several studies on Vo-Ka, which point to the potential catastrophic consequences of spillage or penetration of sewerage into a aquifer in Kleh, and no one here wants to discuss it. I do not know how many questions I will still have to ask the Minister in the context of the oral questions sent and the written questions sent to keep this subject under discussion. Let the Minister do me a favor not to ask him again, next time vote on the oral question that we will discuss this in the National Assembly, so that once and for all we can come up with clear cards on the plan and we can also have a substantive discussion on this matter. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Duck, she'll get the word "Iva Dimic" after him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. I thought we'd be talking more about the rice pipeline, but I understand the whole problem. First, I'd like to say something about how we came to this question, and I'm going to get a little bit attached to what my colleague Logar said before me. I personally say after five years that this system of questions that we have in the National Assembly is a bit of a survival. I like a serious European Parliament, where the coalition and the opposition discuss which two issues will be raised at the meeting, this meeting should be attended by part of the ministerial team covering these two issues, and these two issues are being addressed. I agree with Anžet that what is happening in Ljubljana is more than meticulous, and I will be happy to support it next time, and even if you follow the dynamics of the National Assembly, you see that I often convince my colleagues that we are voting for good proposals. So let's say I regret that my colleague Kepa's proposal on railway issues has not received sufficient support for some debate. This story has several dimensions, two key dimensions our Matthew has pointed out, some even more crucial dimension in the light of this 30th anniversary tomorrow, which has allowed us to follow and debate here, but if we have decided 30 years ago to go our separate ways, we can find after 30 years that those who have been entrusted with some horrendous responsibility to go to this country did not know how to go, a variety of coalitions, diverse people, up and down. This is the first time I've encountered this problem of the rice pipeline in 1994. In 1994-1998, as a young researcher, I was part of a major Koper 2020 research project, primarily dealing with the transition of the regional economy at the time. I was then — how much? – 25 years old, now I'm 50 years old and in the middle, I have to say, nothing significant has happened, the situation has only gotten worse. The task of our politicians is not to make a small effort both in the National Assembly and in the executive branch, but to look back for what is to blame, they are always their fault, not ours. It'll be ten years from now. I'm basically a space sociologist, and I'm glad that an accident like this has never happened before, or to a greater extent. After all, I am also Belokranjec, and we have experience with Krupa I could talk about it, there is some forgotten story that has been contaminated for quite some time in advance. The environment and space were undervalued for a long time. Even in these coalition bargains, he is undervalued. And indeed, given the type of problems that we have in this area – after all, every two or three weeks, some garbage burns, and one is already wondering if it is a little bit related to the insurance companies – we would need it on this area, as well as on another, on European cohesion and elsewhere, people we know about in these matters that we are not just politicians. And I must admit that from what I have mostly listened to from the office, I most agree with what my colleague Montenegro has said about some of the proposals. If we are seriously considering this debate today, there is also a debate on regionalism. You know, I personally and professionally believe that we need five regions, both of which are in half plus Ljubljana. Why? Because countries that are serious about themselves have thought this through critical infrastructure, and water supply is one of the most basic critical infrastructures. If we don't eat for a few days or a week, we'll survive, if we don't drink water, it's gonna be a little harder. To think critical infrastructure is, of course, to think backward complexity. You know, after 30 years of Slovenia we have a problem, here we are, now I'm an MP from Styria, we haven't been able to calibrate a thousand 200 meters of one cable to Impola for ten years, let alone make some kind of bypass. Well, I mean, Christian girl, I would've dug it myself in two years and made it convincing people there, after all. After all, a quarter of Slovenia's Bistrica is employed in Impola. Ange wondered a little rhetorically why this is so – yes, because it is important that he is ours, whether he is capable or not, because you have feaudied the resources because he is only looking through the mandate, whether I will be re-elected, and yes, because often the government at the state level does not hope to do what it should, make political decisions, even though some mayor or someone is unhappy, perhaps even from your party. You know, I've been in politics for six years, and all too many of you colleagues think we're something, I don't know, between a copy of the first hugger's fence in this country and the mass of the world. You can't please everyone. Of course, sometimes you have to make a responsible political decision. And we don't teach people, we don't do what's right for a lot of people, I don't know, the racmans, the Yankovićs and the like, but I could also list the right side of the street here. And that's kind of the backdrop of this story, you know, and I've got a lot on my plate about how complex things are. Slovenia is a relatively small, manageable system. In Slovenia there are people who control the areas, but mostly they have raised their hands from politics, and the ones who prefer to find a niche to work with abroad do not want to have enough. This story has a basis, as my colleague Chernač said before I was born. Something's been playing here for over 50 years. It is clear to anyone who knows little about primary geography and the confluence river, and so on, that the Coast, Crassus, our part of Istria, the Notranian unit with regard to water supply, which needs to be properly plotted, even in a way that when something like this happens, you can exclude some part of it, but still the matter works. But of course, then come some partisan interests. It could now explain the story of the premural plumbing in a long and wide way. Today's debate has not led us to hear an answer, but what we are about to do. Is what I think should be a rather urgent solution, as suggested by my colleague Cernač, to make it easy to see the situation if we have the nearest five times stronger water cover there to connect it? After all, this is also our constitutional responsibility, which we should do. There we accepted lex Magna, a colleague, but unfortunately he is from the SDS, who is not elected to the infrastructure to get to know each other, colleague Ljubo, arguing then: “Yes, but even if there are only 10 jobs if a foreign company comes along”, check the magnetogram, “would still be for the adoption of such a law”. If it is one of the most basic activities, the right to have drinking water running through you, the right to go through some economic processes, probably in the medium term should also consider desalination for industrial water. Then we have to do this, then we also have to be somehow able to do what is something called risk management in English, to get things done quickly through the legislative process. But we're obviously only able to do that if someone doesn't have too much state-of-the-art politics, and they worship him and give him a phototerm and give him a little bit of a twist. After all, we have plumbers who can handle it. We're lucky to have a daughter-in-law in our family. And I don't see some kind of crazy square circle here. But it's strange, with all due respect, with some cultural inspector to put it on some sort of area that's really so wide open. I said in jest that this is about as much as they would say: “Look, because Duck is an extraordinary professor, but he can go on the veteran freshman anatomy to teach.” Which, of course, is not true. And here we are getting a little tense, probably this coalition is a little bit in crisis, maybe there will be elections, every one of them will be attached, I have lived at so many ends of Slovenia that it would take an hour to put it all together, and obviously we will not get to the solution. An urgent solution has been called for – now my fellow Members may argue that I am too friendly to the SDS, and I hope now that Janša will not give the text and colleague Breznik will have to speak against me, which often happens. Then let us make this strengthening work somehow. After all, people from the local community, we can hide, I can hide, I can't hide because I'm on the train, the other one, but some mayor can't hide there, the one who has this experience. Mr. Minister, of course, you stepped into huge shoes, and I would expect these answers. There are also answers to how long it takes to do this. After all, it is not some science fiction a few miles of a water supply to make it connected to a puzzle, and then a more calm search for a long - term solution can be made. If we want to listen to each other, we've got it on the platter somehow. And after all, we also have, as in other countries, do if someone is so unreasonable that there will be there for their lawn they will want so much and so many pennies to get, decommissioning, and then it will be done. They should be able to do this after 30 years at the most within six months or earlier. After all, we probably have another Slovenian Army engineering unit, and I worked in some engineering units in the old army, and we did something like this after Vojvodina. I mean, he's going out on the field and good morning. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic, prepare Janja Služa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u63	Your Honor! Dear Minister! There's no coincidence in life. I am coming directly from the meeting of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Cerknica, where we discussed the Regulations on Water Protection Areas for the municipalities of Blocke, Cerknica, Ilirska Bistrica, Loška Valley, Pivka and Postojna. I may be the first vote before comments are made to you, until Monday, 30 September is the time limit for comments. But it seems to me that we need to take a closer look at what's going on. Protecting drinking water to open a pipe and having quality water seems invaluable to me. Slovenia can really boast that it has this option. Anyone who has had the opportunity to go beyond our borders abroad or beyond knows that this is priceless and that our water really has the best taste and that it is the most delicious. It's also the most delicious bottled. But as far as I have been able to familiarize myself with the regulation on the water protection area of these municipalities – and today I hear that one of the options is just the coverage of Malni, which is actually just below the Municipality of Cerknica, below its borders, under the place of Unec near the Mountain – it seems to me that this is a bit too much for our Notranjska. We, I'm happy, we live in a real reservation. We have the most beasts, the best conditions for a bear, the best conditions for a wolf, we have the best drinking water – but you know what? Life becomes impossible. I therefore ask how much funding is earmarked for these municipalities in this Regulation. Because this means that the quality of life, agriculture, including rural development and, finally, economic development will be substantially changed by this Regulation. We, the Municipality of Cerknica is in the direct red belt when we are talking about the red, orange and yellow belt, which means that the strictest regime here will be similar to that of the Ljubljana Barrier. But look, the quality, the development of our places will change. I want you to give me information on how you imagine not least, but maybe this is a more question for the Ministry of Agriculture, the development of agriculture. We already have a lot of growth, including us. I think we're even among the biggest areas where it grows. This regime simply brings about the fact that farmers with pastures will now no longer be allowed to feed livestock in the pasture after this regime, which simply means that they will no longer be allowed to bring the livestock of the haystack. We are going so far in these areas, in the water protection area. Once again, I'm proud to have good water. I know that we have it, and you can believe that people are aware of it, but to establish a regulation, but at the same time not to eliminate the mixed municipal system of the entire Church, which means that meteor water and feces are collected in the same pipes and that then the pollution of the Cerkniščica stream through the Valenje village to the cleaning plant seems premature. Unless, Minister, there will be additional resources to resolve these flows that are actually going through you. You have information, 14 days ago, three weeks has also been on, I think, Slovenia 1 contribution, how polluted the water is due to the mixed water fecal system. What is now the solution for Slovenian Istria, I hardly say, I am not an expert, but I went to look also at the website, what has happened in the past. As early as 2012, on 7 August, the then director of the Rižanski voivodeship, Zdravko Hočevar, said: “If the country allowed, we would build the cheapest capture of Kubed ourselves.” It is said that initiatives have been carried out all the time to resolve this. I come from a time when I remember the reductions well, if I may say, when the Rigan water supply had been reduced, when all households were not supplied with water, so that some changes were made. Of course, because it was used for this, according to his data, 100 million euros, but there was no broader solution. The fact is that water resources are a matter of the state, which also provides for infrastructure, and yet people need to be taken into account here. For the municipality of Cerknica alone, an elaborate, an environmental impact assessment, should be made for a new building, which means an additional cost. According to the information I have obtained today, there are also 5,000 euros. This is not rural development.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Janja Slug has the word, and Luke the moon is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u65	Thank you very much. In fact, after these discussions, one can see why the matter has not been settled until now. When I listened to the views of the members of the groups when I listened to the discussions of the speakers – everyone has one’s own position, each prefers a certain variant, each one would have another water source and everyone would have referred to the fact that everything had already been brought there practically to a solution, although today we heard in the Minister’s presentation that he actually meant it. But when he put things on the table and suggested them, he realized that far away these things were not brought as close as some today behind their benches say. It is true that there has been more than enough time to deal with this problem in the past. I have to agree with this statement. If this has been discussed since 1965, namely, this rice pipeline has been built, you will not believe it, in 1935, then indeed there was more time than enough. But we also talked today about the admission of drinking water into the constitution, this famous article in the 70s, which protects the right to drinking water. However, I note through the debate that some Members are not really aware of the content of this protection. This protection means protecting the water source, which means that, for example, if a case occurs that a regulation is adopted within the European Union that would allow the exploitation of these water resources to be used in any way other than for some public interest, Slovenia may say that this provision is not acceptable to us and will not be taken into account because it is not in accordance with our Constitution. Of course, this entry into the Constitution does not mean the right to water or what to call it. Water supply is something local communities need to take care of. And what I find interesting is that although the debates so far have been very constructive, I must commend my colleagues here that some very critical debates have also been precisely of those that are actually part of the problem for my notions. So those of those who were in those years when the problem was being resolved and not resolved were part of the local authorities. They are the loudest today, and they are also the most critical today, although I would expect those colleagues to know exactly where the authority of the state goes and where the jurisdiction of the local community begins and who is really the one who should have solved this problem years ago, but it is not. That's the kind of story we have in our country. Yesterday, the Minister and I also solved one part of a similar problem in Celje, when the local community completely cancelled the rehabilitation of kindergartens and had to visit a country that has now assumed all responsibility, costs and implementation. And this is a perfectly identical case. And they're both already drawn to a comparable number of years. is already in one position, it was also presented what has already been happening in this area, because local communities are in fact aware that this is their problem and that this is their task. Because they are aware of this, they have tried many things, but there is no consensus. For example, a letter was signed in 2007 on the intention to implement a joint project on the provision of drinking water to the Slovenian Istrian and the icy region of Karst. That was in 2007. On the basis of this letter of intent, a preliminary study was prepared in 2010. Then other congregations joined the project. Then, in 2011, a contract was signed for the preparation and implementation of the drinking water supply system of the coast and Crassus. As a result, in May 2011, a document of the identification of the investment project was drawn up, where the objectives of the investment were carefully developed, and so on and so on. A whole bunch of things have already been done, and there's been no solution. Then there is nothing left for the minister, who comes in as if he takes it all together, appoints the people to review it and chooses the right option. But then we immediately come to this, if the Ministry chooses the right option, but it should take into account the opinions of the local communities. Wait a minute. For 20 years, the local community couldn't agree. For my notions then the country cuts and says: "This is how it will be." And when the state decides, and I really hope that it will decide as soon as possible, I also expect it, what I am most interested in as an MP here on behalf of people is whether this matter will then be resolved by providing sufficient quantities of drinking water for all, of course, primary. I don't really care how much it costs. I don't really care what water source it comes from. It's up to experts to decide. I want to know if there's enough water. At this point, as we have heard yesterday's explanations in coordination, including from Mr Prohinar, the documentation which has been made so far does not sufficiently reflect this information. And at this point, for none of these options that are on the table and that some claim that everything has already been done and all the studies have been made and I don't know what else, none of them can claim to provide sufficient drinking water for all at this time. That's what I'm really interested in. That's why this trip the minister took is the right one. I am only sorry that this question was raised by a colleague from Desus. I would just like to warn you that my colleagues from Desus have been running this ministry for ten years at the time this saga is taking place. I would therefore expect a colleague, who was also part of the local government at the time of having his minister, to turn to her, and I suppose that they would then find a common language so that they would find a solution and not reach this point where we are today. I really expect this working group to be able to confirm, at the end of its work, that drinking water will be sufficient for all and that the problems of people on the ground will be solved and that this will happen as soon as possible and that the plumbing will be built in agreement with the municipalities or not and that such cases will not be repeated to us as soon as possible. From day to day, we are faced with the mayors pointing out that the country, the state, should, but in fact, their tasks, which should have been done long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u66	Thank you very much. We have a few changes in the debaters. Now she'll get the word "magic." Meira Hot, get the mag ready. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia we have for decades made it clear that for us the second track and second water source of life are important: for our safety, for our health, for our development and for our economy. We've stressed that he's in a hurry. Then we warned him that he was in a great hurry. Then we begged him to run out of time. And unfortunately, on June 25th of this year, it actually ran out. A train with hectolitres of dangerous substances that now threatens to contaminate our only water source in porous karst soils was removed in the Valley of Hrastova. Thanks to the rapid reaction of our firefighters and firefighters and the web of happy circumstances, pollution did not come to the top of the tourist season, when the consequences would actually be catastrophic – for people, for tourism, for the whole country. But this can happen to us tomorrow or next summer, because the track will still be the same and because we will still not have another water source, and so it will be just a few years. We can't get our time back in this place today, but we can stop wasting it. The facts are clear. Rižan water supply is the only water supply that provides Slovenian Istria with drinking water. Rižanski voivodship is the only water supply in Slovenia that does not have enough water. In recent decades, a huge, countless study has been done to provide it. Unfortunately, none of the proposals were implemented because neither the experts nor the congregation, nor politics, were able to reconcile themselves. But today, Istrian congregations are united. Various experts have already said many times and have been paid several times for their studies, only we have yet to decide. If the representatives of the local community are here today, they are probably here to get an answer, not to listen to a wide variety of general discussions about whether the local authorities were guilty or whether the ministry was guilty or anyone else. We can't waste time. They want an answer. When I get back to Piran, I don't know how I'm going to look at the residents and the residents and tell them, look, but now we're going to study for two more years what the real water source is going to be. I'm very sorry, you, Minister, you're not responsible for this, but at this point we're actually all responsible. And we have to give an answer now, not two years from now. How we will realize the constitutional right of the inhabitants and residents of Slovenian Istria, we cannot in fact decide on this until you show us and suggest which source is the right one. This is the task of the state. This is not the task of local communities. Today, we are not talking about the right to water, as some have pointed out, but about the right to water. The water source cannot be determined by the local community on its own, but must be in cooperation with the Ministry. You have to give them a water source. That's what they need, and they're waiting for it. I have also repeatedly identified myself as someone coming from Piran, and you yourself are familiar with Jerne’s channel, which is such a classic example of how responsibility from the congregation to the state, to the ministries, to the government, to all things, but today the matter is not resolved. This is another environmental disaster that is unsettled and is constantly being held accountable. I know you've given your deadline until October for the congregation to do something if you don't, you will. But I want to tell you, today's experience has always been such that the country has repeatedly given some answers, which have never come to some realization, and that is why, of course, Istrian congregations are so much more sensitive to the answer that there will be two more years to come. I also absolutely welcome your promptness, your responsibility and the fact that you were ready to help immediately, that you immediately activated yourself, that you appointed a working group, but I really appeal that you do not allow yourself to wait another two years for a decision. That's what I'm calling for. If I go back to the various solutions that were presented today. However, as far as I am aware, the actual solution with the water cover of the Padaž, for which the national location plan was drawn up, for which all the key consensus was obtained, has been reached. Also, according to the experts in the rice pipeline, it is still a good, long-term solution and not only for Istria, but also for those karst congregations that sometimes lack water and thus get a quality reserve water source. These are not mere claims without a basis, as some are trying to say, these are claims based on the studies carried out since 1965. This does not mean that I am also opposed to any other proposal for linking existing pipelines, optimising them, increasing capacity, reducing system losses. But I demand as soon as possible a concrete proposal for a new water source for Slovenian Istria, which the country simply needs to provide. In June this year we have really seen how vulnerable the existing resources are and how vital it is that we also have an alternative solution in such cases. I am sure that all of us in this room are very well aware of the consequences that might result from further delay in this decision. That is why I really believe that we will be given the opportunity to eliminate this huge unacceptable threat together as soon as possible to all people from Slovenian Istria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branislav Rajić, prepare for Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is not good and, to some extent, it is sad that we have this situation to discuss today in the National Assembly, which is the result of the question raised to the Minister. The question, however, comes from a colleague who was also the secretary-general of the party who led this department but was not asked such a question at the time. But when the minister took her heels and the minister came from another coalition party, then it was a one-time question. Since I have worked a lot as an urbanist in these areas, I have been in environmental management and care services and all that is involved in municipalities and infrastructure, I must say that it is undoubtedly clear that the mayor and always the mayor and the municipality have this responsibility to take care of infrastructure in their area. The public utility must be carefully managed and carefully invested in the entire infrastructure. What is important must also be carefully invested from the network in improving the water system. It is also interesting that all of us are able to cool off this net lift, while virtually what the grid gives us can tell us many times about our relationship to the environment. It is incomprehensible that in areas where water is scarce, cars still wash from a water system where drinking water is exclusively flowing. It is also incomprehensible that we use the same water to flush it, which is then bottled. These things are not acceptable, and we need to start putting these concerns more into perspective. SMC is committed to the environment, and we have also proved this by entering the right to drinking water into the constitution. As the colleague said, this is not about the right to water supply, we need to solve these things, it is about determining the level of this issue: municipal or state or constitutional. It must not happen that, because of the inefficiency or inability to agree on three mayors, it is necessary to use the word “to ride” by the Minister, who has responded extremely effectively in an extremely short period of time to all the almost turbulent situations that have taken place in the field of environment and space. We must not overlook that we must be independent of Croatia and Italy in the water protection issue. This is very important, but in itself this must not be the reason for this issue, this function and this area to be exclusively favourable to the State Spatial Plan. I believe that urban planning is still part of the area of municipal issues. The municipalities are competent, they are in charge of this policy and they are looking for solutions. Only when they can't find them must they seek solutions at a higher level. Each operator must have a plan of action when there is an accident or a cardinal pollution. And these are the congregations. Why not, though, is the question that needs to be raised again by the congregations. Therefore, today's debate in this Chamber seems like a conversation of the same mind, all of us in one horn honking about how important the water is and where the problems are, but it would probably be better for this particular case that the mayors who are from these areas and who are concerned with this problem pour clean wine, as we say, in this case clean water, and that they only disperse when they finally form and for all the useful solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli has the word, and Boštjan Koražija is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u71	Thank you, President, for your word. We have heard a lot of criticism, praise, opinions, but the fact is that at this point in 2019 we are solving the problem of drinking water on the Coast. We're not talking about maintenance of some main spine because it already exists. We are saying that a new pipeline or new source needs to be brought to the coast. That's unacceptable! We've been talking about this for 50 years. 50 years. And let me say something else, Minister, you are completely innocent, you have only now inherited a problem that has been on the table for 50 years, but normally, now you are in this role, and we must somehow pressure you to do so as soon as possible, not to say a solution, but to bring it to such a stage that you will see concrete results that this project goes on. The water supply on the coastline, you need to know, is such a big problem, and I have to fix my fellow Servant, the studies are done and the quantities are known. We know how much this source, that source, they third source can do. That's what you know. It's already done. It's a problem. And I know what the hardest problems are. I was the mayor of one of these municipalities when these investments were decided. That is why I will also say something more, with all due respect to my colleague from Desus, the Minister has not dealt with this problem at all. I have to say this very honestly. Not once did she come to meetings that we had for four years in different places. So much for how much engagement there was. But we're going from the beginning. First, let me say that it is not true not to invest in water and that projects were not made. We in Komno have done five kilometers of water, with European resources. So it could be done, in 2014, it was completed in 2015. We have replaced everything so that 98% of the municipality now has a completely new water supply throughout the municipality. One of the small congregations that has this solution because we have done so knowingly. We also have one of the biggest networks in Slovenia. But all the network we pay goes in, it has to go in, it has to go into the budget line for maintenance and reconstruction, for new ones. Not all congregations do so. Let's say it. And one more thing. It's not just the Ministry of Environment and Space that is responsible here, we need to know that. There are other ministries here, there are MGRT, if there are funds, then the Ministry of Agriculture is also due to parcels, and the Ministry of Culture is here because it is a cultural heritage if the pipeline goes around a certain area. Therefore, a certain phase of this project, which was from the coast and from Crassus, also stopped. I repeat, the Coast and Crassus project was the one closest to realisation. That's what we need to know. Closest. 300 liters per second was guaranteed to the coast. And I'll tell you where the case stopped. They're two guilty. We have to say it honestly. One is the problem of desalination, which came out suddenly, and this blobbed the project that the former mayor of Popovic had. People were scared, and we as mayors said then what we would do now if the Municipality of Koper withdrew from this project. That was one of the reasons. But it would also go through because we convinced him and we know that technical water can't be drinking water, because salinization is technical water, it's used to water, it's used for industry, it's needed for other things, not for drinking. The whole world knows this because otherwise the procedure is even harder. The biggest problem that stopped this project when it was already agreed at MGRT that it would go into two stages to go to perspectives 7/13 and 14/20, two phases were service. Here's the problem with the state. It's not true it's the local community's fault. We gave money to all the congregations at that time, invested money, all the congregations, including the Korah congregation, the Pirish, the Isolate, all of us gave money, because now this money may have to be returned if the project does not go to the end. You need to know that, too. That's one danger, too. But the problem of service is on the national level. There are no owners. You don't get a building permit if you don't have any service on that lot. So the pipeline itself was a problem because the owners could be abroad because the owners died because they were other heirs or they wouldn't allow it. We have to act here as a state and see what we can do. Or, as they've done on the roads, it's going to be estimated and it's going to take a break, and one thing's going to have to be done. One of the biggest problems is agrarian communities. A new platoon can run through agrarian communities, which we haven't solved yet. We thought that in the previous mandate, with the new agricultural community law, we had resolved things and made it even more complicated. We didn't do anything. And here we need to see where the national interest is. Water to the Coast is a national interest. There has to be a priority. That's why I say, Mr. Secretary, and I repeat, you've got this hot potato in your hands, if you say so. But it's a problem. I asked the first question before Simonovic in July. You know that we have debated this issue here, and I have also given you detailed answers as to what might happen if we have a plan B, if such an accident happens. Where's the water coming from? I am the first to say that water must not come from Croatia, must not come from Italy. But the loops that we then assumed we would connect in case anything happens, we must assume that it is possible to get water from other places. Possibility, I'm talking, but absolutely not a priority plumbing. We have to do this here. I'm sure this 100% that this Brestian plumber is what the karst coastal belt that was supposed to be, the most reliable and safe, only has to be launched. That's all. I believe that you are working on this and I believe that you will also do the maximum and I really hope and I place my trust in you, a year and a half of the study is not necessary because this study has already been done. The Gorica project has all the studies done and all the project documentation has been completed, it is completed. I don't know where to look for new sources. 'Cause then it's gonna be five more years. No, it won't be enough for five years. We know for ourselves, it'll be 10 years for that. Take all the papers into your hands and take care of what needed to be done. To conclude, since it's only a minute, I'm just going to give you a case. 13 studies were conducted for the town of Stinjela and the whole area. So, all those who have done studies for the back, whether they're fools or they can't do it. 9 studies were conducted for plumbing. So if we're doing a new study now, all those who have done studies before are worth nothing. But I repeat, the Nova Gorica project has everything ready, it's over. The problems are the service. This, however, must only be approached by the state in order to resolve it. So much for me, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Boštjan Koražija and the preparation of Yuri Leprechaun. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u73	Your Honor, thank you for your word. It is interesting that such a self-evident thing as water, which consists essentially of 70% and more of our planet and 60-70% of our body, we take it for granted, but so rarely do we talk about it in the National Assembly. Sadly, only when an accident occurs would it be a natural disaster or, in fact, a natural disaster. We may not be aware that 97% of all this drinking water supply we have in Slovenia is essentially from these groundwaters. These calamities teach us that water not only washes away but also floods every human act of rejection against it and nature. The deeper we want to bury and cover up such repulsive acts, the more drastic they are put before us again. In the event of such accidents, with such floods, self - determination at the moment of evaporation, because we have water too often for a matter of self - determination — the certainty that we have living water that makes life possible for the entire ECO system. A good week ago, I attended a very well-occupied and well-represented round table on the theme Providing healthy drinking water in the municipality area of Lower Podravje, organised by the Joint Municipal Administration of municipalities in Lower Podravje at the 20th anniversary. I would also now like to thank the Director of the Joint Municipal Administration, Alenka Korpar, who is very sustainablely informed and also ecologically oriented. At this round table were participants from various ministries, including the Ministry of Environment and Space, from the Ministry of Public Administration. I miss listening to these discussions now that people want to go to Primorsk too, that people leave the ministries – and you have been there yourself, and people want to have as many round tables as possible, as many such discussions on this subject. Not only do they tell their problem but they get a sense of security or where they're standing. Mr Simon Zajc and I have been meeting on oral questions for the last half year since his term of office. I admit, to me, this matter of environmental matters is not only on my heart, it's me in fact. And we have also debated many of these issues about the pollution of drinking water and wild landfills. I don't know if you know, but we do have a problem in Podravje as well as in the Sava region with nitrate and atrazine or plant protection products or herbicides. On this round table was presented some very interesting solutions, as well as insights. Mr Podgoršek also then pointed out that now this nitrate pollution is essentially reduced in drinking water or if you do not know how to explain it more plasticly. In fact, we have two wells of water supply, or water access, and then these different waters mix to obtain as much health as possible and chemical measurements of suitable drinking water. We also have a problem with wild landfills in the Drava field at all. One such case, which is very important, was Kozoder’s cave, a gramoza, in which the former factories, which were operating at the time or still functioning, but now have different approaches to garbage disposal, put off very toxic substances. I'll give you a very interesting case. In 1989 this infamous case occurred when all the drinking water was poisoned throughout the Drava field. Interestingly, people discovered this as they were changing the water in the aquarium, and they saw that the fish that lived in the aquarium died very quickly. Even on this round table, it was really interesting and I'm going through it on my head, because I miss that even here in the National Assembly we would be more constructive, more reasoned, more direct, more in certain desires and also in ideas, but pure. Mrs Korpar pointed out exactly the case that many wild landfills in the Drava field had already been rehabilitated. Otherwise, there are still quite a few of them that need to be repaired, but if there is an approach and if there is a wish, I believe that the Primors have it more than too and can be arranged and saved. I really want this to work out for you as soon as possible. You also have support for the Styrians, if necessary. However, it is also true that priority will need to be discussed here in the National Assembly when we discuss these environmental issues as well as sustainable things. The fact is, we can make optical cables as well as wi-fi, but the water won't run on optical cable and on wi-fi. I think that it will be necessary to find out in concrete terms – because I know that Mr Minister is also thinking a lot in this direction – what are essentially the priorities of our country. And it will also have to be more solidarity. We all need water, we live on water, because we're really water. Indeed, it will be necessary to discuss in concrete terms and with arguments about what is essentially the priority of the matter or what it is that defines us or what we want. We know that we all want to, even now that I've heard that everyone wants to have clean water, we all want to have a clean environment. I'm the first one in this place that I want, and I hope we go this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri Leprechaun has the next word. But get ready, Mr. Doblekar.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u75	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The reason for this meeting today, as we know, is our great project that awaits us, the construction of the second track of Koper-Divić and the danger to the environment, what can happen to some extreme things on this track. The only water source they have in northern Primorska is currently Rižana. In order not to pollute this source, colleague Branko Simonovic asked a question from the Member States and was voted to hold a debate on the answer. I certainly don't think the subject we're talking about is foreign. I think it is right that we talk repeatedly about this subject, as has now been said, opposition or position. The theme was one that was of interest to all of us, and it is right to deal with it. As far as these water sources are concerned, we generally know that this is recorded in the constitution. which is written down before it was recorded in the Constitution, it was known that the country was responsible for water resources and the local communities were responsible for distribution locally by these municipalities. It is also important that the State's local spatial plan is the basis for any construction, for every matter relating to new water resources. We know that with a new water source, the existing water resources we already have can be enriched, as it has already been said, to close a chain in the event of a fallout or some ecological disasters so that it can turn in another direction. I will try to live in this debate, in practice, how this project can even be implemented. I will say that in northeastern Slovenia there is a Maribor water supply of 120 000 people and is one of the largest distributors in Slovenia, I think that even the largest concessionaire and together with the municipalities under this issue have dealt with common issues and future developments. In our area we also have in the vicinity of an existing water source, such as that in Maribor, we know that it is sufficient at present, but we have already decided together 20 years ago and we have found an additional reserve water source, that is Selniška dobrova, because in the future it has the possibility to pump about 400 litres of water per second. This is the potential that this part of Slovenia can also supply water. But we also need to know when this water reaches some kind of capture, then we need to make another network that allows it to reach people. But there are also many beautiful landscapes in our country, where there is no public water supply, and those people must also have water. I also agree because I was the mayor, that the local community is basically responsible for the supply of drinking water. We never said to the state that she was responsible. But the problem is that we need a state-level location plan for such a large investment, where the Ministry will come up, because of this position we have to work in a community. We have a lot of water in Slovenia. We have 60% of the vegetation, of the forests, we have a lot of water, which is now much more than we can use. But we don't know how to use it, and we need to be careful not to pollute it. In the upper Drava Valley, I know that we have been working together on large projects to remove and clean municipal waters, which is a prerequisite for protecting and maintaining this water that we have. Such a major project was in the 2007-2014 development perspective, as the Upper Drava Valley decided to invest in decommissioning, cleaning of municipal waters. The project was worth over 50 million, and then we eventually invested about 36 million there. We participated in congregations from Dravograd to Maribor. So we could say that we solved one thing that was a prerequisite to protect our water source in this area. It was said by the Minister that we have 17% of Slovenia in the water protection area. Where this water source is, we have a very large area that is protected. We have zones 1, 2, 3, and on zone 1 agriculture is almost stopped. So our concessionaire gave these farmers who worked there some subsidy to change the way this land was treated. All I am proposing is that we basically need to protect the water source we have by decommissioning, purifying municipal waters and preventing it, just as it did in Rizana. Now we are making this huge investment of our second track, which will probably be built, too, I think it must be built, but certainly now it will be built with difficult basic conditions, so that it is likely to meet these water protection conditions. I now only recommend that a minister who is certainly not responsible for the past state of affairs, that I personally argue that today's debate is not directed at the Minister, but is intended to raise awareness of what lies ahead of us in the future. The reality is that we started the idea of implementing municipal water treatment in 2005 and ended in 2015. On the basis of this project they are building an expansion of the water network in this environment. To tell you the truth, there was always a local community, a mayor who opposed an idea. And yet, we started an investment. And here I see the role of the Ministry. As my colleague Janja said, I agree, at some stage it is necessary to stop and say, "Honorable, this is a national interest, this is a public interest, this is a higher interest, we really can't mess around." They were said to be servants. The service of all these lands, owned by citizens and citizens, is also the responsibility of the congregation. We too had a lot to do in our congregation, and we needed about 250 services. And we got them within two, three years. The other thing is if such land is owned by some cooperatives, one Falcon, another former system, clearly, and here we need help from the state. We've never yearned to have any. It was an opportunity, but we did it with these conversations, with some insistence that we did the same thing. And another example I'm going to tell you is that it's going to be a little more transparent. We had a little water cover that covered, say, 150 people. There was a public operator in the countryside and this water source became contaminated. It polluted itself because of several factors, such as poor decommissioning and cleaning of municipal waters, which was not at all, the manure itself, so at that point in time we had to stop pumping from this water source in the local community. And what was to be done? We had to drive water to these people with fire tanks every day. That's why I can't imagine that happening on this plumbing in Rizana. It's impossible to deliver water to these people. We had, like I said, 100 people, and we drove 15,000 gallons of water every other day. To split it up, it's a big deal. That is why it is also the responsibility of us Members, the country itself and, above all, the local community not to do so. I, too, was basically about getting rid of it first, if possible, what kind of thing is it to figure out what's best. In this particular case, as far as I've been asking myself a little bit, and as my colleague and I have been doing a little bit of deliberation, there is something, there are some documents. It is said that the state's location plan has been adopted as one option, but I see that to date two different variants have been exposed, which the two MPs have advocated, each in their own direction. So I can see that it's up to you now, too, how you're going to handle this. I don't know, but at this point, I'm sure the thing is that first the mayors and mayors of the local community have to step together and decide on this option first. Then it's safe on you and you'll be able to solve it much sooner than in two years if you know what the decision is. Then it's easier this way. However, water is our source and we must take care of what we have in the future. It is, however, a fact that, just as we are currently living in our country, we are not aware of what would happen, some problems others have with this water. Like water, it's not mine, yours, its own, but it's public water, and it doesn't bother me that much. In Styria we have a variety of water sources, which individuals or some small coverage, which also reach into neighbouring Austria, and certainly also the Austrians on our side draw some type of letter. From this point of view, we must be very realistic. I do not think that today's debate should be a criticism to the current minister, which was not our intention either, and not mine at all. We are about to try to move things forward on these known facts as soon as possible, so that we can say that we have done something with this debate to the benefit of Rižana and for you who are at sea and have problems with water. They are likely to be much greater in the future, so we must hurry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u76	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Boris Doblekar, and Mr Gregor Perič is to be prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u77	Thank you so much for saying that. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Dear Minister! Today we are discussing this constitutional right to drinking water for residents in the rice water supply area. The debate extended to all possible water pipelines, to all possible issues of water supply throughout the country, which is also right. I certainly support such discussions, both substantive and strong, to raise a number of questions and also to help the ministry, which is an expert body that then deals with them. We're politicians here, laymen who can't get to know each other at all. But it is right that we, as representatives of the people, talk about this, decide and help with our discussions to the Minister. This debate today is because you voted in favour of this parliamentary issue in the coalition as well. Many interesting questions have been put to ministers, the President of the Government, and you do not choose to support them, which of course saddens me. Very important things are on the wallpaper. For example, I did not know how many times for degraded areas, but you did not vote to open a broader debate, and the problem is across the country, which is also linked to clean drinking water. I'm a little surprised that you supported this question this time. So did we. We support the Slovenian Democratic Party always with all the parliamentary issues that we find interesting, and it would be right to open up such substantive themes here in the National Assembly and take the time to do so. Here you have a minister coming from your kind, and he's on some prangar, at some mini interpolation, but we could talk about this rice water supply and this problem somewhere else, not necessarily here in the National Assembly. But as a matter of fact, I support such discussions. It certainly saddens me that we have been talking about this issue for so many years, when this should have been resolved. Since the 45th, 50th, when this plumbing was being built, we have done virtually nothing to date. You've been in the government the whole time, the governments have been yours and they still are. You say it's not going, we will, I don't know when we'll be, and so on. There were also representatives of the local community here who unfortunately went, too bad they didn't listen to this debate until the end, because I think it's appropriate for them to hear everything. Given that you have touched on various topics: water protection areas, water pipelines, in short, I am also touching the issues of financing the pipelines themselves. On the side of the country, we know that the funding line is 10,000 trailers. It was said by the Minister that there would be an invitation to finance smaller pipelines in September. I don't know. I've never seen this call before. Maybe he will, maybe the minister will explain. Many times, for example, in this case, if we just look at the Coast, we see what the problems are. In fact, they live literally in a sewer, a polluted sea, now this problem and so on. When requests are made, the wishes of citizens, the landscaper for smaller water lines, for water consents, for construction of partitions, everything is drawn too long and no solution can be found. I also stress that the local community is also strongly involved and that the local community should have been able to move forward and address these things or build a new water supply, the B option, which we are all talking about. We in Lithuania, too, had to build all the plumbing ourselves, and we still have a lot of work to do. Just waiting for the country, I don't think it's in place. Because I will have to conclude because I have a period of time that I am running out of, I would only conclude by calling on the Ministry, the Minister and all those responsible to deal with these issues as quickly as possible, and getting it done immediately, without waiting for how long I don't know. But this is also a sample example that can be an example for the whole country and a lesson for all of us. In our lesson, all this history can be 50, 60, 70 years old when we were living in some dream and we didn't do what we had to do. And today we're hunting and searching for solutions and building other pipelines of Karavank, second tracks, third development axis, etc. We're a long way behind, and we've got a lot of work to do. It is necessary to shrink strength and start to really work, not just to discuss. Once again, I would like to ask you to support this debate the next time there are parliamentary questions, when there will be an interesting issue that will be of wider importance for the whole country. We will, too, personally and hope for new interesting substantive discussions in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič has the floor to prepare Mr Daniel Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Vice President. Hello again! It seems to me that there is a lot going on at the Ministry of Environment and Space, that these skeletons from the closet are jumping and I believe that there will be more in this mandate, and then we will give a lot of energy, we will be very loud here and we will be looking for the culprits, we will point our finger. Most often, though, after all this gossip, we are no closer to a solution, away from it. The situation that happened practically at the beginning of the summer, when those few wagons got wiped out and kerosene poured out, was one serious alarm that we understood very well in Istria and we all squeezed our fists so that it wouldn't happen. But the logical consequence is that the track, the first track, from Luke Koper to Divac is extremely burdened. Because of this burden, it is also a great challenge to maintain it and it is in everyone's interest to achieve the second track as soon as possible. It is also in the interest of all of us, especially the people of Slovenia, and also more broadly, to come to terms with the realization or the provision of another water source. That's what we've heard today at the final stage. I would like to thank, in particular, all those responsible, even more competent and slightly less competent people and services who have played a very good role in those most critical moments. In doing so, I am thinking of the Rižanski voivodship Koper, both the municipalities, in particular Cyprus, both the Slovenian Railways, the Firefighters, both the Professional Brigade and the Volunteers, both the ARSO and many other institutions that we have, the Geological Institute, which helped to make all this team on the ground do what was necessary. So at any time it was known whether pollution was occurring, whether this unfortunate kerosene appeared in the groundwater, and was heading towards drinking water, so that everything could then be done to ensure that the pollution did not also occur in the water pipes of customers or citizens and citizens. It saddens me that during that period there were also various disinformation that frightened people, how this kerosene had already appeared in the system, how the water smelled, how certain something was wrong, and then it spread virally. It seems to me that some have also used this for some kind of political struggle. That's how you do it. It's extremely low-level. We are repeatedly received on the Coast because we have such infrastructure that it is extremely difficult to dimension it on one side by the 90,000 inhabitants who are constantly living there, and on the other hand our population will increase by at least a third, if not more, to fly, and all of this infrastructure actually needs to be set up on many more inhabitants. We who live there have to pay for these nets. It is not always easy for local communities to provide a higher standard or a higher capacity for all these infrastructures and, on the other hand, to pay for this infrastructure. By paying for the network, the population in this area is much more burdened. We pay people of Slovenian Istria for cubic meters of water much more than many elsewhere in Slovenia for various reasons, also because we do not yet have a stable water source and we need to get this water from elsewhere, including Croatia. The story with Croatia is interesting and still goes back to the time of Yugoslavia. This connection with the Croatian water supply or Istrian water supply was made in the 1970s and coastal municipalities, or whatever the name was then, the self-government coastal community, I do not remember, contributed its resources to this network for a period of 30 years. After 30 years, this infrastructure also became the property of Croatia or its water supply. Since then, that was around 2000, we have also remained residents of Slovenian Istria in some rather uncertain situation, when we also depend on the good will of our friends on the Croatian side, who have not denied us these options so far, and I believe that it will still be in the future. This trust did not waver in those moments when it was the most tense between Ljubljana and Zagreb, and I hope that it will remain the same, because people in that area, on the ground, to say so, despite all the political events in the Piran Bay with the fishermen and I do not know what else we coexist and cooperate. This spill, this skeleton from the closet was also some serious test for the Ministry itself and for its services, because we must be aware that on the other hand there was an extremely strong pressure, which was also justified, of our economy and also of our ports, that as soon as possible a railway connection between the port and the other network, i.e. the railways inside the country and beyond, would be restored. There has been considerable economic damage and I am glad that this kerosene has not been captured or in the rice pipeline, and I hope it remains so. Where he is, no one knows, even experts who know these circumstances. The karst terrain is extremely unpredictable, which is another reason to do everything possible to reduce such cases, to minimize the possibility of such circumstances. Here goes the thanks to the Ministry and the Minister, and in the final stage also to the Kori mayor, who showed a very clear attitude. In fact, with some joint cooperation, you have all shown that such most critical situations can also be tackled in a way that the consequences are minimal or fortunate in this case. It was economic damage, but there was no environmental disaster in terms of pollution. However, when those wells were made, or when monitoring was carried out, certain pollutants were detected, or mineral oils. These mineral oils went in there probably not by chance, someone dropped them. This must be a sign for all of us, too, that there is never enough awareness of people, including those living in this area. And such areas, that I will not be discriminatory, are very large in Slovenia, and everyone must be careful what flows into the environment. In addition, when it comes to oils and other substances that once enter the groundwater and some serious pollution occurs, the recovery of such situations is extremely difficult, difficult, or larger, we can count on nature and time to do our part. That is why it takes a great deal of time. And we can't afford anything like that in Istria. If I go back a little bit. In Istria, we received the first water supply from a dictator who brought us plumbing — in one hand he had a water supply, if I say so, and in the other hand a bottle of castor oil. He left something positive, but when he left, we were very pleased. Then began that relatively slow cycle of establishing a water network. At home, they can tell me that in the early 80 ’ s, a few miles from Izola still did not have a water supply at home, and they had to get water by car to provide water for the most pressing needs. So we haven't had any water in Istria, especially in Istria, for a short time, and we don't really appreciate it very much, because we know it's limited as a water source. I think that in 2013 and 2014 one such interesting set of circumstances occurred when the Riesian water pipeline cured its specific capacities. In order for him to find out, he had to clear out certain coverages. On the other hand, there was a dry season, and at that time we saw what reduction looks like in practice or the fear of reduction itself has a very interesting feeling when you go past the tap, that you certainly don’t. The history of solving this problem is very rich. After all, today we have also heard about a number of different variant solutions. As has been said in the position of the SMC Group, I think it is very wrong that here in this room we as politicians defend one or the other or the third solution, because this must be done by experts. Only when the experts sign below, each of their fields of expertise, then we can do everything else as a policy – we provide the means, the appropriate political will, the necessary changes in the legislation and everything else. In the past, such speculations or favors were one solution, and then the favor of the other solution, including change of heart, was very great. After all, even when Mr Karl Erjavec was Minister of the Environment and Space, here I have an article from May 2009, there was a meeting where the solution to the water cover in Padez was favoured, and then a few days after that meeting, the Minister of Environment and Space took a more cautious view of what I understand in this sense, when the Minister steps for such a solution, which is extremely important and not for five or ten years, but for 50 or 100 years, he must be absolutely convinced that the matter holds water. At that time, apparently that project was not brought far enough for the current Minister of Environment and Space to stand absolutely firm behind it. If we go a little further in time, in 2011, we will get to those projects, as also discussed by our colleague Bandelli, from the time he was mayor of one of the Kraški municipalities. In February 2011, the Istrian and Krajski mayors settled, while one part of the article states that this project will have to be implemented by 2015, and I now quote: “But only if a contract on the preparation, implementation and operation of the drinking water supply system is put to life yesterday.” This problem, which has actually been brought to the political level, did not occur until 2015. It was a service problem. As soon as the mayors signed the Treaty in 2011, I think it was very clear that the route on which the water supply should run is so wide and that we have some legislation that commands certain steps in obtaining official permits. It was expected until 2014 and by 2015 there was no clearer response. At the SMC, the three Istrian Members then came up with a concrete solution that changed the law that restricted it, and I don't remember the exact title of the law now. And that wasn't enough. Because, as we've heard, there was a lack of political will and it was lacking at the local level. There were a lot of tension between the Istrian mayors on the one hand and the Kraški mayors on the other. Then, unfortunately, this project fell into the water. We're where we are today. Unfortunately, from 2015 until today, something essential has not moved, but today we have a nice opportunity to move things forward. In the past we have also talked at the local level, an initiative has emerged, and this is also one of the possible variants, the 9th variant in DIIP, the supply of drinking water by the Coast and Kras from May 2011, so the 9th variant is the desalination of sea water. In the past, much has been said about this in the Coast or Istria. We all discovered at that time what desalination was, in fact, and it was difficult to find an example of desalination or desalination in Europe. But you quickly found them doing so in a desert or something similar in the Middle East. Five minutes was enough to find that this process is extremely wasteful, consumes a lot of electricity, and as a by-product you get huge amounts of salt. Well, salt can only be a problem from the point of view of storage, because then we can use it for other purposes, for roads or something. But I cannot imagine such a solution to alleviate the problem of water supply in Istria. Some of them were very strong advocates, including certain pilot projects. One of these little salinization stations was set up in the Korinian marina. But I don't know any more about what he was like or what we've all been up to, because we've also spent public money on this. I hope it's something smart. If I keep going. I would like much more to see this debate today, as I have already mentioned, much more professional and much less political. But according to the format of the debate we have, it can only be political and cannot be professional, because we are probably not experts in this area with the exception of any rare exceptions. I would be much more likely to refer to the Committee on Infrastructure and a place where individual experts could also be invited to explain their views, views, reservations and proposals, and perhaps take a decision, maybe move the matter further, maybe give further support to the Minister and the Ministry, and send a positive signal to the local environment, which eventually came together after the accident. All the mayors, all the municipal councils, took some binding decisions and gave some clear signal that this problem should not only be addressed as soon as possible, but also addressed. If I go back to the beginning of my debate. I mentioned that when a minister wants to carry out a project, he must be 100% convinced that this project is the right one, the most appropriate solution. But he also needs to know how much it costs. At this point, we are not sure how much this matter costs or is the most optimal and, ultimately, the same is said in the State Council. I've got it written down somewhere. I can't find it right now. Let us use this time as much as possible to find out which of the four options we are talking about now is the best and then implement this project as soon as possible, so that we will meet all of these needs and this problem that we have in Istria over the last 50 years and more. After all, it is not only Istria’s problem, but it is also associated with the karst congregations, and it is also related to the challenges that the water supply in Illyrian Bistris is likely to have elsewhere. If we want to live off tourism, even during the tourist season, it is very uncomfortable when tourists come from the sea and want to take a shower, but they cannot do that. A lot of people understand that. They respect that. But if we have this opportunity to sort these things out, and I believe we have it, we also have enough political wisdom, let's take advantage of all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Daniel Krivec, to prepare Mr Franc Jurša and as the last Mr Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! I listened very carefully to the discussions, for some time in the office, for some time in the hall. They are mostly well-intentioned, even constructive, interesting. The questions asked by colleague Branko Simonovic were relatively simple: the measures taken by the Ministry in the event of pollution have not yet been heard, and how to provide water supply for this part in the long term, this area of Slovenia, is called the Coast and the karst part. In this area, too, there has been little overhearing. I will draw attention to the key issues that are problematic here, which are repeated and might already be perceived by the Ministry from the past. Remember the projects of regional landfills where the story was similar. The municipalities either adjusted to some extent or did not comply, the money was available, and at some point it was not available. And during a period of time, a decision was also taken in the National Assembly, even to vote on the Committee, because the conclusion in general in the National Assembly among Members was that individual municipalities of such large projects were unlikely to complete or reach a solution with this agreement. There was a vote on the Committee on Environment and Space on the transfer of these projects to implementation by the Ministry. You won't believe it. The vote was 9:9. At the time, the committee was chaired by a colleague, Breda Pecan, and was surprised that we did not vote. What do I want to warn you about? Just what's happening to us right now. All studies from the past indicate that water supply is necessary here to provide additional resources, municipalities agree at one point to a certain extent, there are individual authorities who need to give certain permits, it goes on for a while, and then there comes a time when the matter stops. And then the congregation can't cut it. This can be cut off by the state. In the case of such important infrastructure matters, the State will have to do its part in other areas. But in the field of road transport, I don't know, we have Dars, and at least to some extent we can combine some interests. In such a case, which is also important in our view for the coast, for water supply, for the provision of a compulsory public service — however, water supply belongs inside — the state will have to decide once and for all and cut things. Otherwise, there won't be another ten years. The same has happened in landfills, where this matter is now slowly getting revenge and these problems are only getting worse. I believe that Mr Zajc is not the most responsible at this time. However, if he does not offer some solutions, he will be equally responsible for not solving matters. And here's the key problem. You said it was for the experts to decide. Yeah, but these options are all on the table. Someone has to do this valorisation, the ministry has to set up a five-member group that has to give an answer within 14 days, which of these options are the best. But it's not like we're gonna be doing another study. It's out of touch, and it's a waste of time and money. True, though, it is fitting for someone to do an extra study to earn extra money. This is usually how the study says that there is no “no dick or mouse”. It is said that it does not decide and not suggest the Ministry's best decision, but leave the next study to it. That was too much in the past. In such an important matter, the State must assume its role as coordinator and responsible to resolve an important problem. It's the only thing that can keep us going. Finally, as in Magna’s case, the National Assembly may adopt the law, allowing the Ministry to carry it out. So we can't fool ourselves by not having any power, but we can't do anything. Like I said, it's been an experiment in the past. Coalition, the position agreed that these dispute over landfills are so far away that we will lose money from European resources and that these landfills will not be settled. And you won't believe it, it happened, and the vote was 9:9. And it was not decided to transfer implementation to the Ministry. Here we have a similar example, and you can push that this is also realized, that we do not blind the congregations and citizens, that we cannot do anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Jurša has the floor and then Mr Chernač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Vice President. It is difficult to say something new after all this discussion. But it is true that I can say something from my own experience. First of all, I would like to say that in no case should we accuse my colleague Simonovic of asking this question of the delegation and of requiring this public hearing. I have never advocated, and I have also advised him not to call for this debate, because no conclusion will be reached here. But given how current this topic was at that time, we can't in any way say that I shouldn't have put that up. There was an accident back then, there was an accident, and at the same time there was a tourist season. Therefore, it is logical that this topic was present not only in Primorske but in the whole of Slovenia. I, too, must admit, have been able to raise the question of the Member States in the 2008-2011 mandate and to achieve public hearing within the National Assembly on the theme of the watershed. In view of the fact that in the position of one of the members of the group, this pomur waterworks was also in some way exposed, I would like to say something for information in a brief manner. The first contract for this pomurski voivodship was concluded between the municipalities and the Ministry in 2005. Last year, or perhaps already before last year, this project was somehow completed to the extent planned. Solutions are not on the whole of Pomura because all citizens, citizens do not yet have healthy drinking water in their homes. But mostly from cohesion funds, the local communities co-financed relatively little, we managed to build such a project, which absorbed about 146 million, if I am not mistaken, cohesion funds. It's a tremendously large project. But what's really sad is that when we started, I also worked together, we made a deal, and we concluded contracts, we split the project into three parts, now that we have to finish the matter, and the local community authorities just can't agree on some of the issues. But they got the project, mostly funded, so they didn't have to give anything from the municipal cash registers. And that's kind of very sad. Since I have already mentioned the summer, the accident, some have also mentioned the percentage of water imported from Croatia, it is crucial that this water cover, as well as the water source, be built and transport water must be built at the same time. We will not have water in our possession, but we must lead it to certain waters, which then leads to households and businesses and so on.If the mayors, the mayors of this area who need this water, and the ministry together, there will be nothing from this story. I guarantee it. I am not saying that he is here, for example, because Branko Simonovich is my fellow Member, that Desus is here because he would like to drag some skeletons out of the closet, which is why he actually requested this discussion or was asked by his colleague Simonovic – no, because of the current event. If the mayors and the minister sit together, negotiate things, do not set up commissions, do not re-examine studies, then there can be relatively quick solutions. But you know, it's not gonna happen in one, two and three years. No, it can't happen because these are procedures. If we're just looking at how much service you have to gain, how many steps you have to take to get to all of this. This is a relatively demanding project and we support it. We will not reach any conclusions and conclusions here, but we want the mayors to step together to do something with the ministry. But without the mayors and without the Ministry, it won't work. But someone has to take over the function of the institution — whether it will be the institution of the congregation or the ministry. But there's another thing that's true. The Ministry is in Ljubljana and is established in Ljubljana, the local communities, the municipalities are where they are – in Cyprus, in Izola, Piran and so on, so that I will not list who are closer to this event. Those nearer have a much greater concern or need to be more concerned. I'd like to ask today if anyone has taken this responsibility in the past and started working on it intensively. Probably not, because if you did, then this thing would have been solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u85	Thank you. I think that this debate has been useful today, regardless of the fact that there is no provision under the rules of procedure for any decision to be taken. In the future, consideration should also be given to the coalition's concerns, in order to sometimes support another debate on the important issues proposed by the opposition. This is what the Coalition Member proposed this time, and we all supported it, and I think it was right that we supported it and that this debate took place today. Finally, what we have heard from the Minister today is that it is only this pressure, if I can use that word in commanding, that the National Assembly has helped to make things move, to start thinking about this project and so on. Hold what you've been told. The carriers were municipalities and were already carriers, said in 2011, but the case did not work out because certain administrations had to be provided but were not provided during that period. And here is the undeniable role of the minister and the ministry, as spoke of by Comrade Krivec Daniel. There are a lot of things that can be simplified. Why all environmental assessments are necessary for pipes that run in the same pipes. Old pipes are thrown out, new pipes are put out, only the dimension is larger, because the needs are greater, and everything needs to be acquired in a new way, as if it were a new project in an area where nothing has ever happened. This, I think, is a matter for the Minister and the Ministry to simplify these matters as much as possible if we want such projects to be, and this is an important one, one of the important ones, to be done faster than predicted. Because otherwise it will be another ten, twenty years before the coast gets an alternative source, which I don't think would be good, because we see that needs are growing and this problem needs to be solved in a relatively short time. As we can see, the solutions are, even more are, more options are possible, and I don't see any reason for this timeline not to move fast. Of course, on the one hand, this depends on the Ministry's regulation, where they have to change the logic that we have witnessed. I will tell her again, although my friend on the other hand, Trček, criticized me yesterday for asking what nonsense is going on when a forest pier for the fences in Mlinh near Bled was replaced with concrete, and because of this the congregation of Bled received a construction inspection, a request for removal of this pier by 15 August this year, why it does not change, and if we are doing a rondo, which is a major construction intervention without construction permits. The minister's answer was, "Yeah, we'll think about it, you're right, we also need a building permit for the Rondo." Please, this is completely wrong and wrong logic. Completely missed! Things need to be simplified where possible and where possible. If the pier was from the 13th century onward, it is not the devil that even now the congregation has not done the right thing with all modern materials. Something similar applies to these water-protective matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u86	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, on which the Minister and the proposer will be given the floor. First, I give my word to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Thank you to all Members and Members for the debate. The main point of all of your interventions, if I've represented you correctly, is not to masquerade things so that we can get things done faster. This is what I want, especially given that since 1965 these debates have been ongoing to find these solutions, and today we do not have them realized. But I'm sure that you've all gotten assurances about some timeline that was very optimistic, and then it didn't come true, it's been extended, or it hasn't even settled. I've already given myself a timeline that I've exceeded then, because when you want to be as optimistic as possible, you might forget a little about the reality that can then happen and assume that something will happen sooner and then it won't. Let's say this water law, which will bring about the fact that we will co-finance these smaller water lines from the water fund, is one example where I expected to have it in September already in the procedure, and we will have to run another inter-resort round, because such a simple solution as I thought at first is, it brings together more questions that need to be settled before we get to the National Assembly. In this case, it's similar. Studies, we've heard, they've been done, they exist, some have proved that this variant is better, some have proven that it's different. If all of this is true, I expect that this deadline, which is set in this task, is said to be from about half a year to 21 months, it will be shorter to come up with a solution in one year. But I prefer to see that now there is a more realistic timeline than I am now ready to say that in six months we will find that we will look at all the analyses, look at all the studies, refresh all the studies with new data and new changes in space, and that this will be completed in six months. If that's the case, it's so much better, but I'd rather give you some real timelines. But I agree with what has been said. When we look at this, we'll have to decide which way we're going. Therefore, it is so important that then, believe me, we see everywhere, on the third development axis, when a country decides on a route, you have an immediate opposition and a proposal for other solutions and it will be similar here. So when I decide, if I'm gonna be here when we make this decision, it's a good thing we can tell you why. So we can say that we've decided on some option because it's cheaper because it's more feasible, it's also one of the criteria, so we want to get to this new source as quickly as possible, so that we can discuss it on the basis of real data and reliable data at the time, and then we all agree on whether it's the best option. When we get there, that's how it is. If a choice is made for a new accumulation, if we look at what needs to be done, from the VAT, and then the accumulation itself, we are fast ten years, ten, twelve years. If we go to Malni, if we go to Clarici, about five years, four to five. Then it'll be a time stamp. This is why it is so much more important that we now find or optimize the water supply from the Istrian water supply. Now in the summer we found that this is a technical obstacle, not an obstacle to the amount of water. And this obstacle must now be bridged so that, in case we need additional water, while we do not have a new source, Slovenian, that we have this plan B so that the inhabitants of the coast will not be in any situation, when there is or less water, there may be some pollution without water. This is what needs to be done in the meantime. Actually, I don't have anything to say anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Branko Simonovic has the floor now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. First of all, I would like to thank all those who have voted that this debate has taken place today in the National Assembly. See, the people of Slovenian Istria – which is 90 thousand of us – have been dealing with water supply since 1965. Unfortunately, the system is such and such legislation that we were always dependent on someone to make this decision, not to talk about the options we had, Kubed and so on. We also see today that this is such a topic and an accident, which has happened that we all kind of want to do it as soon as possible and to realize it. I must say that I also expected in the debate the question of why the version adopted in 2002 and adopted by the profession had been stopped. From 2002 to 2006, it was designed and suddenly this option stopped. I really want to know what the main reason was. It also bothers me that if the profession has made up its mind, it is important to believe and not as some SMC Members point to who and say that the option should be chosen by experts and then discuss some options themselves. I don't think that's constructive. Mr Minister, my reflection on why this item should be placed on the agenda today has given you an incentive to respond effectively to your team's actions to kerosene – I hope it has not reached its source. I really expected you to be so determined and, with the support you have, also somehow break off this practice of appointing some of the working groups. An old saying: If you don’t want to do something, literally name a working group. I expected that and that you will continue with the project that the profession has chosen and set up a time frame for us, why and how we will get there. All those living in the coastal area know what water shortages and water closures mean. I was also in the economy when the hotels had to shut down water twice a day. That's a really big problem. I'm aware it's complex, I'm aware of the need to save it. Mr. Minister, you have the support of all of us here today to react. But it is true that you must make sure that your decision is the right one. I believe that you will do everything possible to shorten these arms and that we will continue where the project was stopped in 2006. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u90	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether you wish to discuss the matter further on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. As I see that it is an interest to read further that if you want to discuss also the proposaler Branko Simonovic and the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Simon Zajc, please also report by pressing the microphone button. In this case they will get the word as the last, first the minister and then the proposer. Now I'm opening an application for debate. We've got seven interviewees reported. The first one gets the word, Mr. Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u91	Thank you for your word, Madam President. But I was lucky to be first again. I won't be long. I'll just be a little short. I have already discussed, in five minutes, everything I meant to say, but I would say that I also listened carefully to the answer, the opinion of the Minister for the Environment, Mr Zajc. I believe they'll actually hurry. This is the essence, the point of everything, which we have also talked about today, that we need to hurry, in this case with solutions, and quickly find solutions and start working quickly. I am also pleased that he mentioned in the debate that the Water Act will also approach as quickly as possible to co-finance smaller water lines across local communities, which I am extremely pleased with. Finally, it may be just that I am calling on all Members and Members once a question has been raised, as Member Desus said, when the current event is so strong that we will all feel that this is also being discussed in the National Assembly, please press the key and confirm this. That wouldn't be bad. Not for every matter, but for those current things, it wouldn't be bad if we discussed it in the National Assembly. We've seen some interesting ideas come out, that a lot of things have opened up. Mr Perič also said that perhaps this debate would be more of a committee, which I agree with, but we are indeed all Members and Members here, because we are only on the committee, which is why the committee is. It is therefore right for everyone or everyone to be given the opportunity here. That's all. When there will be a very up-to-date question on the programme, especially with a preventive approach, which has also been debated today and we have somehow decided that we should work more on prevention, not on curativa, after the problem has already occurred – as in this case on the railway to the railway station or the railway station or more precisely on the edge. Because we know that we have a fairly long, tired infrastructure and that we also need to rebuild, which we also need to do quickly. So when there will be an interesting question, when I ask it again about what degraded area, as I now do about the Crab, where cyanide and various heavy metals flow into the land that pollutes water, we have in the Constitution the right to clean drinking water, and we poison water daily with tens, hundreds of liters every day. Pollution of water, groundwater, the environment is polluted, evaporated into the atmosphere and such cases are significant in Slovenia, not only in Rakovnik in the municipality of Šmartno pri Litija. A broader debate should then be opened and discussed here. And we will also help the ministry, the minister, who I must say is working hard, is successfully continuing the work of Lebna, and we will help him more, not harm him. When the problem that I have also opened up, where human lives are at risk, both children and everyone else in Hotič, for which I do not know how many times I have asked and asked when this will be resolved, when everything is actually ready to start work, it is complicated in the Ministry of the Environment with the water protection permit and so on, where children are at risk every day, pedestrians on the narrow state road and are at risk of life. Will we then open the debate here and discuss the matter when someone is already dead? Let us do this earlier, and let us also hurry up with such interesting current projects that we can already find out and something is waiting for them to get complicated. Many of you are asking interesting questions from Members of Parliament, and if it were my opinion, those laws would be adopted very quickly, but mostly in Parliament they would talk about interesting substantive things, because it would be a big contribution to all of us and the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u93	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! It was interesting to hear this debate today. I think that it has proved useful to repeat such discussions on the various problems that have occurred. But I'll come from one point of view. During the debate, it has been repeatedly exposed: bureaucracy, too much paperwork, too much of this. Yeah, well, after all, we're the ones who make the laws. Here we can get a little bit of ash on account of the fact that all the consents, all the papers you have to get for the investment, are in line with the law. And it is the law that prevents the investor from obtaining a building permit; besides, it needs the consent of the owners. I would focus on my mayoral experience in this area. We also built plumbing, sewerage and cable, with cohesion funds. We have two valleys, in one we have built; in the other we cannot build a municipality because it has no resources because the system of allocation of cohesion funds has changed and on the basis of this change it was possible to draw these funds from the Municipality of Ljubljana. Thus, all the cohesion funds for the periphery were inaccessible and went to a canal that is now being built in a water - collecting area — as has been said today — and small congregations or small congregations remain behind. Nevertheless, I would imagine that the criteria set by someone were said to be set by Europe, but I hardly suspect that this was Europe, and yet I think that this was our country that set the criteria for the allocation of cohesion funds and that these were not actually accessible to these municipalities. [[…]] If I go back to this plumbing in Rizana. It is not only the will and will and willingness of the minister, which is great, but it is a set of factors that affect the acquisition of a building permit; from the monumental protection, which is an extreme in all matters, to the other co-sponsors, which are more than 20. It's been a few years before you collect all this stuff before you get the ownership right to build it. Only then can you run for cohesion funds, without a building permit of course that's not possible, and only then can I, I'll say at home, plant the first shovel. I want the marines to have a healthy mind, what they have, very healthy, better than the Gorenjeks or more, and I think they're gonna make it. If they have managed to unite in the past in Primorsko and remain under our country, they must also be treated as such. But once again, let's not always refer to marriages. The laws are passed by this Parliament, and if this Parliament adopts such a law that prescribes so many and so many consents, we must be aware of the consequences of this. This only means that laws in this country should have weight, be written more operationally, not only legally, but also operationally, to simplify matters. In neighbouring Austria, we have good cases of how you get a building permit, I don't know, in one month. With us in a month, you can barely put together a role to play. So I also appeal to us to adopt in the future such laws as will be operational and will indeed allow certain things to be settled, among them the priority of this water supply in Primorska.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Matthew Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u95	My Group of Members spent the entire time in regular work, so I had no choice but to apply for this time-sharing. When I listened to today's debate, which I welcome and, above all, this is an incentive for coalition Members to support the opposition's proposal to hold a debate on several occasions. I think today's debate has been purely cultivated and on the spot and that it can contribute positively, even though it may be time-consuming for ministers, however you turn things around. Today, the minister spoke about this water or the problems faced by the Primors. And if anything, of course, the marines deserve water. Last but not least, we have the right to water in the Constitution and, as a country, we are obliged to ensure that the Primors receive this water as well. Pika. It's very simple. The minister said that there were some 17 solutions where we could increase the capacity or supply of this water. If I misinterpreted you, then you'll say otherwise, but I don't care about the thing I saw in Israel, and it's a sea-saltting facility. The thing that we saw live there didn't look like a block at first sight, or like a house on the 10th floor, where the sea was pumped to the top floor, and then the sea slowly penetrated through the rocks, over the sink, over such and other sands, and eventually went over the membranes. According to the information they gave us, about 90% of the water that Israel consumes is from the sea, but 10% is the classical water that they get from the Golan Planet and then mix it with that water, because it is important because of mining materials and other details that I would not now mention. But I've been thinking, isn't it possible there, why it's not possible in Slovenia? Last but not least, we are talking about an area with water problems, which is close to the sea, and where, in particular, the lack is very intense in the summer months due to the tourist season, because of the heat and similar things, which is also useful for the fact that this is once again an opportunity to generate energy that this unit also needs to salt the sea. It would seem to me, at least at first glance, an interesting combination to capture water from the sea, salt it and mix it and add it to this current that exists. If this works elsewhere in the world, it is difficult to understand why this would not work in Slovenia. But I saw with my own eyes – as students we were with a college in Israel and at least that southern part was completely deserted, naked. Ten years after we went across this area again, it was green. The reason was that a large number of these areas, which are now being flooded, are being flooded with water that they obtain from the sea or by salinization. In this debate today, I would like to hear from the Minister, because I have caught that this variant of dissaltation has also been thought of, and then that this was not the right option, that it was not a good option and then abandoned. I am interested in the reasons or where this information could be obtained, for these reasons, why this option of sea desalination and thus water supply to the Primors has been abandoned. Where was the main problem; is this an extremely difficult financial operation to deal with, or are there any other problems? But I would like to understand why something is possible in a country and not in Slovenia. I'd like to know from you, Minister, if you could instruct me where to get this information and what was the underlying reason why this option was abandoned.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. Some information, if we are already in the process of desalination, is certainly also available in the Rižan water pipeline in Koper, where, as I mentioned in my discussion, they have already gone to some such pilot project. What they found, at least I didn't see, was one of the ideas or I see her as a member at some point as a political fly. Why am I talking to a political fly? Again, if I refer to DIIP, the supply of drinking water by the Coast and Kras – now I will not find – aha: desalination of sea water, variant 9, this is from 2011 and all the karst and Istrian congregations are signed below, writes: “One idea was also to get drinking water from sea water. We believe that this option is theoretically possible, but it is too expensive for Slovenia because we have enough freshwater resources." So we have enough water, we do not have enough water in the area of Slovenian Istria, but we can bring it from elsewhere and this is the goal of today's topic. But I wanted to emphasise something today – I think this is the third time I have stressed – that we are not here today to choose any of the three or four options that are on the table today, because let the profession do it in an appropriate way. Above all, none of the options are advocated in the SMC; neither the Fall, nor the Little One, nor the Clarice, or something fourth or fifth. Personally, I don't care what variant we're going to, too. It's important that we provide water. It is therefore a little strange to me that some fellow Members then send or defend some variants slightly more than others, if we do not yet have purely clear concepts from a time point of view, as far as it is necessary to realize an individual, both from an economic point of view, including in terms of sustainability or reliability, and ultimately security. Each option has its own pluses, as well as its own minuses. Speaking of which, we're talking about the fallout cap. The coverage of Padež extends mainly to the area of the municipality of Hrpelje Kozina, but I think that another part of the Theatre, and there are already clear signals that people are close to some huge coverage that will cover many areas and also change not only the landscape, but bring behind them many other things, perhaps not the most. This is then a task that falls to the Ministry of Environment and Space, which must bring this matter together with the DN, to reconcile all interests, we know that it takes a long time for these things, and this solution is also the most expensive of all. At this point as a Member, I cannot say whether this solution is the best or not. Some say it could be optimal, some don't. I can only believe it or not, but without some serious arguments we are having a hard time talking here and these arguments must not be political, but must be professional. I have a feeling that today this debate has almost gone towards a debate of conscience, particularly the bad conscience of some. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Vojko Starović has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I am a little older here between us – even the second, only Jelinčič, which is not here today, is older than me – and I would also be the director in tourism, when we ran out of water on the Coast, needed to be restricted. This goes back to the '80s. What did we do then? We had a coastal community, so there was a connection, there was some kind of creation, and from it came the Rižan waterworks, there was a work that was able to react and react. It was the Gradole project; with the neighbouring municipality we agreed, it was the neighbouring municipality, we were not yet in different countries, and the Gradoles were made and it was made just like this, so that the next season was no longer a problem. In doing so, I would also like to say that it is also necessary to realize that the rice resources, Rizana, depend on time, much on precipitation such as annual rainfall, and very fluctuating, so we need an additional source of water and then we provide it from two additional sources. So things are solved. But now we have three congregations, a fourth congregation, when it was agreed, as well as projects designed to connect with the karst water supply, began to fall into the water because we cannot agree. However, the congregation is the one who, according to our legislative authority, cannot do so. The ministry can coordinate, pressure, that, third, but it can only assume its share of responsibility. I think that here, our fellow Member, Mr Trček, was right that we were missing something, some creation, some landscape, because we could do this a little better. I just think that with smart negotiation and with initiative – not a two-year study, Mr Minister, but with the initiative – it is possible to cut down and do something, especially on projects that have already been done. We do not need to do everything completely smart at this point, if we first make a link that is closer to reach, we will ensure, but in the long term, a project like the Fall. I am not here to defend any matter in particular, but it is what I have been looking at, and this is what ours have always claimed to be the right and long-term solution. So we need to approach the problem: what we can do immediately and what we can do in a few years. I think the ministry could take the initiative here, as it reacted at the time: come, sit down with the mayors and find this solution, including with Crassus. I think it's a responsibility. We like to search for sinners, and now we will look for sinners for 10 years, 20 years, 30 years ago, one looking for sinners from 1945 and so on. Let's stop this, let's keep looking, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on, let's move on. That's what I'd say, and that's an invitation to the minister. This debate that Branko started is also the real one. For what? Because it pointed to a systemic problem. Because such infrastructure facilities as water supply and water supply cannot solve the congregation on their own and it is difficult to deal with. It's a practice, it's a fact we can't overlook. That is why a smart intermediate phase and the initiative of the Ministry of Field Affairs are needed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The word is now given to Mr. Minister. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u101	Thank you. The answers to two questions seem to me to be still in my debt. The question was, what happened in 2006, that everything had stopped as far as accumulation was concerned. This was the 2004-2008 government period and at that time, on 16 November 2006, a meeting between the ILO was held between the Minister and the Court of Auditors. After that meeting, they decided to freeze their activities on the project until further freezing and to obtain assessments of foreign experts and obtained these assessments. These assessments shall be made as follows. Foreign experts said: “Accumulation Mola and Klivnik can supply Rižanski water supply if they maintain an adequate minimum flow into the river River. It is also necessary to take into account exceptional dry periods, the minimum flow of the river is not yet specific due to the change in circumstances. Existing accumulations can also cover the needs of the Rižan water supply by 2062 and the need for water of all three water lines, rice, karst and Illyrian bistriski. Given that water supply can be provided by properly managing existing accumulators, it is not recommended to build a new accumulation at this time. The objectives achieved by additional accumulation would not counterbalance the large financial and environmental burdens of such a project.” That was the reason they stopped it then. The project for Illyrian Bistrica came the longest, and was then stopped or not realized because of various problems. Now we just have to move on from this. I too was at one of the seawater stations in Cyprus. When our parents spoke to the Israelites, however, the Israelites said that you were not going to build such an object if you had water. So you don't salt the sea if you have enough water, and Slovenia is one of the most watery countries, so it doesn't make sense for us to do that. The Israelis, for example, are doing more hundred kilometers of water for irrigation, and it is hard for us to imagine that Malni and I will pull the water down. So there are different circumstances. Soiling water in the first place is very wasteful, of course also ecologically problematic, we need to put it on our Short Coast and a lot of questions. But the Israelis themselves have said, what you have, as much water as you have, you don't have to do it, and they wouldn't do it if they had as many water resources and water resources as we have. In the meantime, we have shuddered many times with our legislation, with various complications, but this is so, you know, depending on what we have on the subject, we put ourselves on that side more. If we are actually talking about protecting water resources, of course we are all very in favour, it is good that we have such legislation that is good. But next time we talk about not being able to place any of the railings or anything like that, we will be back on the wallpaper because we do not give our consent or demand no restrictive measures. But then we come to the fact that this legislation that we have, which is good, of course, has to be taken into account; that this means, of course, a few additional measures, maybe something more expensive, maybe a little longer, but that is just avoiding the potential for some water source to become polluted. It must then be understood that, for example, our directorate gives a negative opinion or something like that. When we talk about water, we are all aware of the importance of being careful enough. However, there is room for improvement and hastening some procedure. What I have heard in this Chamber, in particular, is how many people are willing to turn around in this legislation, how ready they are to decide how to organize their work. That's what matters most, not so much, that we're complicated in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u102	Thank you very much. As the last one gets the word, Mr Branko Simonovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Two things I would also like to point out that all those who are more interested in this issue can also receive a summary of the Public Care Regulation with drinking water of the Slovenian Istria and the last Kraj region prepared by Andrej Kryžanowski of the University of Ljubljana. Let me say that here are also calculations, financial estimates processed by 5 variants and after what I have here, also the most financially advantageous option chosen by the profession. One more detail; when we read these reports – all the documents I have are from the public company Rižanski voivodship in Koper. I have noticed somewhere that more than 50% of all activities have been carried out in order to be placed in the premises, namely to prepare all the project documentation and the national location plan. I hope that we will continue at this point very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u104	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. I also conclude this point of the agenda. I am adjourning the 11th session of the assembly, which we will continue by voting in half an hour, which is at 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 14.29 and resumed at 15. uri.)
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u105	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session of the assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will proceed to the voting in the following order: 14, 4, 3, 9, 10, 12. And item 17 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, so please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Thank you. We continue with the 14th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the motion for a resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. At the same time, I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendment adopted on the home working body would have made the motion for a resolution inconsistent. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Who wants it? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Miha Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, chairman. In Levi, we strongly oppose this resolution on the national security strategy. Mainly because the 40-page paper on national security itself makes speech less. What actually threatens Slovenia, what actually threatens the world? Home poverty, global poverty. Global inequality and inequality at home and all of us as inhabitants of this planet are particularly at risk of climate change. All of these topics have little space in the Strategy on National Security to Fight, but this resolution, with a very strong NATO-friendly ideological lens as a priority of threats, places war on the Russian Federation, some all present but severely abstract hybrid threats and wants to introduce even more control over Slovenian citizens and citizens. This resolution is an ideological pamphlet to justify the further strengthening of Slovenian repressive apparatus aimed at Slovenian citizens and citizens by pronouncing some phantom external threats, but it also lays the groundwork for the further loss of Slovenian public money for needless weapons under the Next Pact – of course, we are talking about those medium-sized battalion groups and 1.2 billion budget money to go into foreign military industrial complexes – and in this way subsidised the largest countries within NATO. These are all the reasons why in Levi, we believe that this resolution should be rejected, re-written, priorities, what national security is and what it actually threatens, thoroughly revalued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Anybody else want to talk? No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. I'm breaking up again. [[advertising from the hall]] Ladies and gentlemen, I've waited a little while for you to share your experiences, and now we're moving on. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 29. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on the Regulation of Certain Matters for the Final Judgement of the Arbitration Court on the basis of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of this law. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 75 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda – consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Copyright and Related Rights following a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 58 votes in favour, none against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 9th item of the agenda – second reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Act on the Coordination of Transfers to Individuals and Households in the Republic of Slovenia, in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 24 September 2019. We therefore decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 4. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Miha Kordish, probably on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u108	That is right, on behalf of the Left Group, in which we have joined this amendment and will also support it. Basically, this law is about drawing up two-year coordination of social transfers and family benefits and establishing one-year coordination. This means that the budget will account for the poorest, most exposed, at the expense of scholarships, recipients of social assistance and thus the further saving of €6 million. At least this amount was mentioned by the Ministry of Labour in the original assessment of the financial implications. The current threshold for the risk of poverty is 13,3 %, or if I translate it into absolute numbers, that is 268,000 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens living below the poverty risk threshold, 45 000 more people than before the crisis, but now in the middle of the conjunctura, when the opportunity is perfect, the government is determined to deal with poverty, confuse it, or even eliminate it definitively, it is happening quite the opposite. We are faced with a series of antisocial cuts into programs that support the weakest and help them from the spiral of poverty. With our amendment, unfortunately, harmful provisions cannot be fully drawn up, as we have tried with that supplement that we have submitted for consideration by this law on the Committee. But we can do something different; we can change the conditions under which this harmful anti-social law enters into force. And that's exactly what we're doing. Our amendment stipulates that this transfer of social transfers and family benefits by increasing the cost of living from two years to one year can only occur when the number of people living under the poverty risk threshold falls below 6.7%, that is, compared to the current number when it is halved. This amendment seeks to remedy, to prevent the worst consequences of the anti-social measure in a way that would take it far into the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u109	Thank you, Member, for explaining your vote. By doing so, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting on the amendment of the left-wing Group to Article 4. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 6 to 52 votes in favour. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendment, as well as the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the second reading of the amendment to the amended bill has not been adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Mr. Miha Kordish, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u110	Thank you. We strongly oppose this bill in the left hand side. Not just that! All the recent attempts of the Sharcha government, which are witnessing and interfering with social transfers and family benefits, and instead of eliminating poverty, they are deepening this. The law, which represents the coordination of social transfers with the growth of living costs from two years to one year interval, is harmful. No matter what his lawyers say at the Ministry of Labour, it's a law that tries to save on the poor with technical distractions. We are firmly opposed to this in Levica. If anything, it should be done exactly the opposite; acquisitions such as raising social assistance to 402 euros should be followed by further gains in poverty eradication, not backward steps that refer to the current scope of social transfers, which is one of the arguments used by the drafters of this law. That way we have savings where there shouldn't be saving. At a time when the government boasts at a record level of its budget, at a time when net profits in the economy amount to €4.2 billion, and finally at a time when the government is preparing a tax reform, with which it will, for the third time in a row, pay the highest wages. This law must be rejected, it is harmful to the poor, it is an antisocial law. For something like this, it's not only my words that need to be drawn to, that we can take into our hands the amendment with which the two-year coordination has even been introduced. These amendments have been submitted or supported by the SDS, NSI and SNS groups in 2008 with an explicit explanation that two-year coordination with the level of growth in living costs is being introduced because it is more favourable for recipients of social and family transfers. A reversal in this family’s income means, of course, that poor people are saved to save on scholarships to save on disability. With some political consistency, corruption and social standing in this national assembly, we can gather enough parliamentary deadlines to say no, there will be no savings on the poor, and they will join us in voting against us. At least that's what we hope for in the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Dear Members and honourable Members, we vote. 82 Members and Members were present, with 51 to 30 votes in favour. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men under the Regular Procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 4. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 12th item of the agenda – the first consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Penal Code. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Penal Code is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[in favour of 75 votes in favour.]] [[Nobody.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Justice as a working body. This concludes this agenda item. Dear Members, we are moving on to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY — MANAGEMENTALLY VOLUNTARY MATTERS. First of all, the proposal for the appointment of a President and members of the National Council for Culture. The proposal was tabled by the Government. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Mrs Ursula Cetinski to the National Council for Culture for a period of five years and Mr Mitja Chander, Dr Andrej Gaspari, Dr Maša Jazbec, Mr Iztok Kovac, Mr Jurij Krpan and Mr Marko Vatovec, with a term of office of 27. 9. 2019. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 2. [[in favour of 49 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. - I'm sorry. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the discharge and appointment of a member of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund. The proposal was tabled by the Government. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling for the discharge of Mr Vinko Möderndorfer in the Administrative Committee of the Prešeren Foundation for the duties of a member and Mr Aleš Novak in his capacity as a member, for a period until the end of the term of office of the Management Board appointed by the Decision appointing the members of the Management Board of the Prešeren Fund of 12 February. Seven. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. The proposal was tabled by the Government. In view of the withdrawal of consent to the nomination by the proposed candidate, the Government has amended the proposal accordingly at the meeting of the parent working body, so that the remaining three candidates, Mr Jureta Brankovic, are proposed for the members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. Alexander Iglicar and Mr Mladen Terčelj. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, which made written reports to the assembly and submitted proposals for conclusions. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposed decisions. In doing so, I inform you that, under the third paragraph of Article 13 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act, any decision will be taken if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. Pursuant to the fourth paragraph of Article 13 of that Act, the National Assembly shall vote on each candidate separately. And we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Jure Brankovic as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency for a period of four years. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 20. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing a mag as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency for a period of four years. Alexander the Iglisar. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present and 49 votes against 6. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Mladen Terčelj as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency for a period of four years. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present and 49 votes against 6. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against six.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Maribor District Court. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Ms Simone Murko to the judicial office of the District Court at the Maribor District Court. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which Mrs Simona Murko is elected to the judicial office of the District Court at the Maribor District Court. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Maribor. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Ms Ana Pečnik as a judge at the District Court in Maribor. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision, by which Mrs Ana Pečnik is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the Proposal for an election to the judicial office of the District Court at the Regional Court in Novi mesto. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for the election of Ms Magi. Karle Balažic Nahtigal in judicial capacity at the District Court of Justice in the New Town District Court. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision which elects Mrs Mag as Judge of the District Court in the New Town District Court. Carla Balažic Nahtigal. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the proposal for election to the judicial function of the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to elect Ms. Mojce Gosar Kegel as Judge of the District Court of Justice at the District Court in Ljubljana. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision, by which Mrs Mojca Gosar Kegel is elected to the judicial office of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the examination of the motion for election to the judicial office of the District Court at the District Court in Kranj. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to elect Ms Jane Škerbinek as a judge at the District Court in Kranj. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision which elects Mrs Jana Škerbinek as judge of the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 40 votes against none. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Slovenian National Commission for UNESCO. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Ms Nina Maurovic as a member of the Slovenian National Commission for UNESCO for a period of 4 years. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 27. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the detection of abuses in the case of Franc Kangler and others. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. First of all, Dr. Matthew Tašner Vatovec has the word on behalf of the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have already opposed this proposal in Levica when this commission of inquiry was being set up, and the reasons are more than obvious. The fact is, the State Council acted here as the godfather of France Kangler and, of course, the godfather of his efforts to overthrow the judiciary in this country. Regardless of what the actual trials have been like, the mistakes that have taken place in these trials, it is unacceptable that the Council of State proposes and that the National Assembly should set up such an investigative committee, both in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the Council of Justice, and other legal professionals, contrary to the constitutionally stated division between the authorities. This is an illegal intervention by the legislative branch of the judiciary. It is also, not least, an attack on the independence of the judiciary; in short, we have a violation of at least three articles of the Constitution. This should also be added to the fact that the group, which is still in fact the only one presented by this proposal in this investigative commission, has also contributed to this increase. It is said that three members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, one member of New Slovenia and one member of the Slovenian National Party. Three members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, a party that has been persistently trying to bring down the judiciary in this country and put it in its proper place, so there is no reason to lose words about the fact that this would actually be an independent investigative commission. Let us be clear that this is a politically motivated commission that is trying to protect its satellite, Frank Kangler, and, of course, to continue its campaign against the judiciary in the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, from this point of view, we have already communicated in Levica when the President of the Mandate-Election Commission called on the parliamentary groups to appoint members, saying that we will not participate in such an investigative commission. We will also vote against the proposed composition today because it is as if it were to keep the herd of sheep to wolves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u113	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr. Marko Bandelli, SAB Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u114	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the SAB Group, a number of concerns regarding the determination of this investigation have been noted from the very beginning. On the other hand, when we present our views today, we can reiterate that we understand people who would like to understand what is happening in Slovenian justice. At the time of the examination of the act establishing this commission of inquiry, I have pointed out that we understand the plight of Franz Kangler, who has been in some proceedings for so long, and was eventually forgiven. The number of procedures raising suspicion and in this respect it is possible to understand the desire to investigate and clarify the alleged irregularities that are to take place, but these issues must be dealt with by those who are called to do so under our legislation and constitutional order. We must all be aware of the competences of the individual authorities and where the limits that are not already allowed to be crossed on behalf of anything. The whole matter is an exceptional contradiction of circumstances. The principle of the division of power set out in Article 3 of the Constitution is clear and we all know it here. According to him, the power in the Republic of Slovenia is divided into legislative, enforcement and judicial, and it is particularly important to stress that in its work each of them must be independent and independent, and must not be subjected to any pressure. Furthermore, Article 93 of the Constitution stipulates that the National Assembly must order an inquiry into matters of public interest, either at the request of a third of its members or at the request of the Council of State. On the one hand, we have an article of the Constitution which clearly limits the division of individual branches of power and their powers and, on the other hand, an article which commands an order of inquiry if the latter requires an appropriate part of the Members or the Council of State. In a specific case, these articles collide with each other. This is also reflected in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that this results in a number of conflicts. This, on the one hand, pointed out that both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation would be violated by any non-definition and non-establishment of the Commission of Inquiry. On the other hand, it stated that the subject of a parliamentary inquiry is a dispute, both in terms of content and in terms of certainty. Even though the treatment is intended to be related to the persecution of France Kangler and others, these “others” are nowhere subjectively explained and broken down. This raises reasonable doubts as to whether an object which focuses solely on one person is a matter of public interest or whether it is in fact a matter of pursuing the private interest of the individual. Of course, the Legislative and Legal Service has also pointed out the most prominent and problematic thing that the Commission of Inquiry must not interfere with the exclusive powers of the executive and judicial authorities. So which of these violations is the superior, the more intolerable and appropriate? In the SAB Group, we have already said that we agree with the opinion of the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice, which I would not take back from this point. The only right thing for both institutions in the further situation is for the Constitutional Court to decide on the constitutionality and effect of the admissibility of the parliamentary inquiry. This is, after all, precisely so that, in such dilemmas, we are looking forward to this decision together with appropriate action. When I speak of appropriate action, I am referring to the suspension of the enforcement of the act establishing this investigation. Finally, I would like to add that we will abstain from voting in the SAB Group because of all the concerns about this parliamentary inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u115	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mrs Anja Bah Žibert on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u116	Thank you very much. On 12 July 2019, the National Assembly ordered a parliamentary inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions to participate in the preparation and execution of political and criminal prosecutions against France Kangler and others. By adopting a decision at the Mandate-Electorial Commission on 19. 9. The Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation have been violated in order to transfer members of the Parliamentary Commission to one of the following meetings. This is a publicly eloquent recognition of the President of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission at yesterday's emergency meeting, which acknowledged the violation. This reference to the Mandate-Election Commission would certainly not have been made if the head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliament, Daniel Krivec, had not been aware of this at the beginning of this meeting of the National Assembly, resulting in a written warning by the President of the National Assembly, Dejan Židan, in which he points out a violation of the Rules of Procedure. The President of the National Assembly also warned that the Constitution in this part was clear. When we have a request from the Council of State or a third of Members, the parliamentary commission must be set up. The fact that the Vice-President of the National Assembly, Tina Heferle, has allowed for a serious breach of the rule of law by means of the proposed decision to postpone the decision on the appointment of the parliamentary commission of inquiry raises serious doubts as to its suitability and ability to act as Vice-President. Her reference to the fact that Attorney General Drago Shket has brought a dispute before the Constitutional Court is irrelevant. Finally, the Constitutional Court did not hold back the articles requiring Members to appoint members of the Commission under examination immediately. Therefore, there is no doubt that there is an abuse of power. As it is said, the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation provides for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the parliamentary investigation means the exercise of wider social control. It is the control mechanisms that restrict and control the demon of power and hold the ruling power within the limits of legal and legitimate conduct and action. The Commission of Inquiry was already set up at a meeting of the National Assembly in July this year and the rules on the next step, namely the appointment of members, are clear. They should be appointed at the same or no later than at the first next meeting of the National Assembly, but the coalition has stood up to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the laws and the Constitution, and has voluntarily decided not to allow the Commission of Inquiry. Does that sound familiar to you? Of course! During the previous term of office, the recycled coalition unconstitutionally stole the mandate of the President of the Slovenian Democratic Party and the then President of the National Assembly, Miran Brglez, publicly promised to take political responsibility if the Constitutional Court decided that the conduct was unconstitutional. And that's what the court decided. How, though, did the then president of the National Assembly decide? Not only did he not take on any responsibilities but he is today even a European Member of the Social Democrats quota. It would be good if the current President of the National Assembly would also teach those members of the Mandate-Election Commission, who, despite all the known facts at yesterday's meeting, voted again against the appointment of members of the Commission of Inquiry. It would also be useful to look at Article 2 of the Law on Members, which clearly stipulates that Members of Parliament shall exercise their mandate in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In all of this, therefore, very logical questions are raised. Coalition, why are you afraid of the investigation committee about Kangler and the others? What are you afraid of? Perhaps the discovery of another judge who favors you more or less openly and at the same time under the cover of an independent authority thinks that there is only a blue sky over him, and that he has no shame in violating human rights and saying judgment in the name of the people, but he knows very well that he has long had nothing in common with the people? [[sign for the end of the debate]] If that's the case, then it's crystal clear why you're afraid. Let me conclude by saying that the ideal leader of the violation of the Constitution, the Parliamentary of the National Assembly, is the representative of the LMŠ Group of Members; the party that leads the coalition is the party that leads the country. The president of LMŠ promised new samples in the election campaign [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u117	Dear Member, you've exceeded your time. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u118	Right away. I suggest you don't burden yourself with new samples, [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u119	and therefore I ask you to stop your debate [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u120	Constitution and laws to be respected [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u121	What I'm asking anyone who stands [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u122	They're quite enough. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u123	in this room. [[…]] Thank you for your position. Ms. Tina Heferle, Marjan Sharca's emissary group. Madam Ambassador, the minutes are yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. If I start in the back. On 19 September, we voted on the Commission's mandate to move the agenda item on the appointment of members of the Commission of Inquiry to one of the following meetings. The reasons why we have made such a procedural proposal will be further clarified below. First of all, I will reply to all those who today are aware that we have violated the rules of procedure with such a proposal. Yeah, we didn't. This is what two simple facts speak for. First time. The fact is that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is our small constitution, lays down, inter alia, that a parliamentary inquiry is governed by specific rules of procedure, but the other fact is that this specific Rules of Procedure do not contain provisions which, for example, regulate the course of the debate, rules on the provision of replicas, nor any rules on the making of procedural proposals. This is what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are talking about. It is true, therefore, that the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Investigation are a more special provision, but this does not regulate all procedural situations, and when a more specific regulation does not regulate certain situations, it always makes sense to apply the provisions of the more general regulation in a subsidiary way. The procedural proposal which I made on behalf of the LMŠ Group on the Mandate-Electorial Commission is not specifically regulated in a more specific regulation; it is not yet specifically prohibited, but is envisaged and regulated in a more general regulation. Therefore, not only was such a procedural proposal legitimate, it was also legal. If I return to the substantive reasons why we have made such a proposal at all and why we have decided in the LMŠ Group that we will not participate in this parliamentary investigation in any way, the matter is relatively simple. The Supreme State Prosecutor and the Attorney-General, who represent the summit of a mountain called the judiciary, have submitted to the Constitutional Court an initiative to initiate a procedure to assess the constitutionality and legality of the act establishing the parliamentary inquiry for which we are establishing the Commission today and a constitutional appeal to the Law on Parliamentary Investigation. The Council of Justice, which is also the top of the judiciary, has expressed its strong opposition to this investigative commission and has pointed out the danger of carrying out any and especially political pressure on judges. Last but not least, we have hosted the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Constitutional Court, who in one voice warned and condemned the establishment of this parliamentary investigation on the grounds that judges and prosecutors are not political officials and cannot be called political responsibility under the Constitution. Here, I should like to point out that the Law on Parliamentary Investigation explicitly provides for a parliamentary inquiry to be established solely and solely to determine political responsibility. For the LMŠ Group, the functioning of such an investigative commission, by calling judges and prosecutors to political responsibility, constitutes a violation of the Slovenian Constitution and a grave breach of the legislative branch of power into the independence of the judiciary. As I have already said at the Mandate-Election Commission, if we want to maintain some integrity and credibility of the institution we represent, we should never, at any time, allow ourselves to lay the foundations of our constitutional order, the division of power and the respect for the independence of the judiciary. That is why, in our view, prior to the appointment of members to the Commission, it would be imperative to wait for the decision of the Constitutional Court to see whether the functioning of such an investigative commission is, at all, constitutional and admissible. With regard to the allegations that we are violating the Constitution by blocking the appointment of a commission, let me explain the following. Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia lays down only the obligation for the National Assembly to order a parliamentary inquiry, which is also at the previous meeting of the assembly. And further, to appoint a commission there. The Constitution does not speak anywhere about the time limits when the Commission must establish itself, but only about the obligation to name it. So, we ordered a parliamentary inquiry in accordance with the Constitution, and at the next step we did not say that the Commission of Inquiry should not be, we simply proposed a postponement of its appointment to a time when a constitutional decision on this matter would be known. Again, legitimate and legal. If I finish. In the LMŠ Group of Members, we will all vote in our conscience, as always, without creating accounts and different reasons and separate opinions, because we are a party with democratic values.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u125	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your position. Dear Members and Members! [[There's a riot in the hall.]] No one bothered your representative, no one commented [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Your representative's discussions, let's give this standard to keep, please, for everyone. Mag. Bojana Muršič, Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u126	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Let me just say in the introduction that the Social Democrats in this commission of inquiry will not cooperate and we do not support it. Why? First time. The parliamentary investigation shall be conducted on matters of public interest in order to contest the actual situation which may be the basis for deciding on the political responsibility of the holders of public powers, amending the legislation and other decisions of the National Assembly under its constitutional competence. All those who have read this document, this request of the Council of State, see that it speaks only of one person. About Mr. Franc Kangler. That is why we ask the Social Democrats where the definition of the proposer is that matters are of public interest. This is an obvious matter of personal importance, and there could be more. Another time. In its 1999 decision, the Constitutional Court took the view that the subject of a parliamentary inquiry could not be civilised and that it was limited to the constitutional powers of the National Assembly. This means that the subject matter of a parliamentary inquiry must not affect either the powers of the executive branch or the jurisdiction of the judicial branch of authority. The right to determine a parliamentary inquiry does not also mean an absolute right, which is unlimited and we can do what we want with it. It's limited. The purpose of the parliamentary investigation must therefore respect the principle of the division of power and, on the other hand, the constitutional right of the individual. Article 125 of the Constitution and the principle of the independence of the judiciary prohibits the other branch of authority from taking decisions relating to specific open or closed proceedings. Parliament's decision cannot therefore be legal and the inadequacy of individual judgments and judicial proceedings is therefore an issue. The difficulty of the request for a commission of inquiry is going in this direction. Third time. Identifying the political responsibilities of holders of public powers, which are independent and independent under the Constitution and the law, is unacceptable. Judges may not be heard in the parliamentary investigation procedure on matters which have been or have been the subject of a judicial decision. Nor should the legislative or executive branch interfere with the work of prosecutors. Fourth time. The fundamental assumption for deciding whether a parliamentary inquiry remains within the limits of its competence is the specific definition of the subject matter of the investigation. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly warned the proposer, the State Council, that it should adjust accordingly, limit the subject of the Commission of Inquiry in its request, but the applicant did not or did not wish to do so. Fifth. It is more than obvious that in this case it is an abuse of the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation for political purposes, which goes beyond the competence of our National Assembly. For us, the Social Democrats, this is unacceptable, so it is right that the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office to the Constitutional Court has already given an initiative to assess constitutionality, which also relates to the establishment and subject matter of this commission of inquiry. Similarly, the Council of Justice foretold. Finally, the National Assembly is primarily a legislator and this should be our fundamental function. However, the mandate of the National Assembly is becoming an increasingly investigative body of some kind, since the powers of the Commissions of Inquiry and the supervisory bodies of the National Assembly of Abuse are being conferred on them rather than on the polygon or stage for political accounting. Social Democrats are deeply aware that mistakes, irregularities are taking place in the judiciary and in the prosecution. It is very likely that there have also been more resilient cases in the public. It is unacceptable for us, too, that certain such irregularities and anomalies in the public are not explained. The Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office should have done much more here. However, in our firm belief, the Commission of Inquiry, which will walk on the edge or even on the edge of constitutional regulation, is not the right way to solve these solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u127	Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for your presentation. As the last on behalf of the parliamentary groups, Mr Igor Zorčič, Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u128	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Colleagues, colleagues! I am pleased to have today's last presentation of the Group's position. Maybe I can convince someone else, i.e., I've heard that there's going to be a lot of stamina in the hallways and that eventually this constitutional investigation committee is going to work. I hope that we will not be alone in the SMC with one honorable exception, as we were on the Mandate-Volution Commission. At the time of the request for a parliamentary inquiry, the Legislative and Legal Service has made it clear that the request for the establishment of an investigative commission submitted by the Council of State is not the same as it should be. The elements of the requirement are not precise and specific, and the parliamentary investigation can only be directed at those holders of public functions who are politically responsible to the National Assembly. The Legislature further found that the request for a parliamentary inquiry did not contain sufficient justification for the matter being of public interest, i.e. one concerning the wider community, since the only emphasis is on the request on the person of Franc Kangler. The establishment of such a commission also poses a risk of a violation of the constitutional regime, which is at least Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for the division of the executive, legislative and judicial branches of government, which is one of the fundamental requirements of each democratic state regime. To make matters very controversial, there is also a strong response by the judiciary, the prosecution, the KPK and GRECA; this is a group of anti-corruption countries in the Council of Europe, which decided in June, due to this case, to urgently assess the division of powers between the legislative and judicial branches of power in Slovenia. In short, a lot of violent responses. In the SMC, we hoped that the President of the National Assembly and the MVK would not drive this matter so far as we are now deciding on the composition of the so-called Kangler Investigation Commission. If we vote today, this will be a shameful decision by the National Assembly, which we believe will have many far-reaching negative consequences for democracy, for confidence in the institutions of the country and for the reputation of Slovenia in the world. This will not only be a politically irresponsible parliamentary adventure, but a direct breakdown of our constitutional regime. Let us reiterate once again our position that in this matter it is the farce of the Council of State at the initiative of France Kangler, who, when requesting the appointment of a parliamentary commission, abuses his role as a state councilor and pursues only his own interests. Franz Kangler has repeatedly repeated in the media the sentence in one of his court cases that the judge should tell him that there is a danger that Kangler will return to politics. What was meant by this sentence is now clear, namely, that Franc Kangler is using the obvious policy for his own interests, which comes indirectly from the opinions and actions of the PKK, the Council of Justice, the Council of State, GRECA and all those who have just awakened at this action. In the position we have already put in this case, we referred to our famous story about the Kozlovski Judgment in Visno Gora. Today there seems to be no more room for satire and laughter, but nevertheless I will make the case that we will not look at the SMC blindfolded and vote against it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u129	Thank you, Mr Member, for also presenting your Group's position. With this, honourable Members, we have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President of the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We vote Mr Franz Breznik on behalf of the parliamentary group or in our How? [[…]] [[…]] In a personal name. Here, you want to explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Why is it in the public interest to make such a composition of the Commission, and with what reason do I vote in favour of this composition? The first issue is that we should look at it, as Keith Miles wrote in today's Finances, the Economic Freedom of the World, the 2019 Annual Report. Slovenia is 67th. Of course, we have been lagging behind for Estonia, Lithuania, Latvia, Bulgaria, Slovakia. It is very interesting, however, that we have also fallen behind Albania this year. It is particularly critical in the field of justice. I can say and repeat once again that in the area of justice, the impartiality of justice, we are also lagging behind for Russia. Only enough that citizens and citizens know where you're taking us and what you're representing. Why is this committee in the public interest? On October 19, 1988, Udbov killer Vinko Sindičić wanted to kill the Croatian migrant in Scotland with five shots, unfortunately or fortunately, Vinko Sindičića survived and at that time wanted to make a special alibi for Mr Vinko Sindičić, a Yugoslav communist system for this killer, so that he was not connected to Yugoslavia and the secret service. One of the people who prepared this alibi and who traced it was Judge Janez Žirovnik, who even became a judge, a member of the so-called federal judgment, then even worked in Owl, and this man ordered and issued and signed more than twenty orders for so-called hearings to Mr Kangler. I ask you whether you think this is in the public interest, and ask all colleagues and colleagues if you think Slovenia is a normal country. I ask you again: Do you think this is normal? I will therefore vote in favour of such a composition, in particular for the establishment, especially because there is no absolute distinction between the three branches of authority, but between the three branches of government there is a so-called relative distinction [[advertising from the hall]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u131	Mr. Ambassador, you've used 15 more seconds than you deserve. You also have your seconds at your disposal, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u132	Yes, thank you very much, President. I've been thinking for a long time whether or not I would have answered. And since I know Franc Kangler and I have to say that we're almost friends or we're friends, I have to say that we're going to make more trouble with this investigation committee than he's ever had in his life. I'll tell you why. When I think about it and when you say that everything in this judicial system is wrong, only one information is important. Kangler has been convicted 20 times of certain cases, and this court, which you call a criminal, I don't know what it is, has set him free 20 times in some way. What's wrong with this court? What do we do now? So, do you want it to still be Kangler's fault, or Kangler shouldn't be guilty? I don't get it here. And when I said to France, "France, you were in this country, the state of law, for every mistake you made twenty times forgiven!" And what are we going to talk about, my dear? Thank you very much. I'll hold on.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-09-26-SDZ8-Redna-11.ana.u133	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 19. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 11th meeting of the Assembly, which we continue on Tuesday, 1 October, at 9 a.m. Goodbye!
