ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 14th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Joseph Lenart, Mag. Andrej Šircelj, Eva Irgl, Iva Dimic from 16.30 p.m., Ferenc Horváth, mag. Carmen Furman, Susanna Beautiful Šimenko, Felice Žiža, Matjaž Han, Dušan Šiško, Ivan Hršak, Jan Mahnic, Tomaž Lisec, Jelka Godec, Franc Rosec, Just Bevk from 12 noon onwards, Jani Ivanuša, Lidija Ivanuša and Jerca Korča. Once again, I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 13. On the agenda, it's a discussion of the Ministry's response to the mag infrastructure. Alice's brother-in-law's e-mail question to Miha Cordis in connection with the closure of the railway crossing at the Skofi Loka. At its 13th meeting, the National Assembly decided to hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure of Magi. Alenka Bratušek to the question of Mr Miha Kordiš in connection with the closure of the railway crossing at Trata in Škofja Loka. I give the floor to Mr Mihi Kordiš for an additional explanation of the proposal for a discussion on the Minister's response. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you, Chairman. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues! I've been counting 30 years, ever since I can remember, living in Skofja Loka. For as long as I can remember, there is also a railway crossing next to our railway station, which we are talking about today. This transition is used daily by 250 countries in the village of Trata. It is also used daily by 450 employees in nearby industrial plants, but this may soon change. The Slovenian Railways and the Ministry of Infrastructure have decided to close this railway crossing together. Why? The official response is for security reasons. Indeed, this transition is not entirely in accordance with certain acts and regulations. What ladies and gentlemen who want to close this transition forget is that the security risks by closing this transition are actually increasing. Individual lives may now be at risk, and history does not remember a serious accident on this transition. As the locals were able to tell the firefighters at the assembly, there will be a significant extension of the intervention path for firefighters and other vehicles if the crossing is closed. At the same time, alternative access to the industrial zone, which lies next to the village of Trata, as well as to the local residences of Trata narrow, is such that in the event of a major accident they may not be able to recover, while fire trucks and other intervention vehicles will not be able to access until the end of the event. Let us not forget what happens if 250 plus 450 people suddenly have to withdraw from these narrow roads. Not to be a hypothesis, there was also an episode from this year when it burned in the nearby Knauf factory and 64 firefighters from nearby fire companies and from Trata took part in the intervention. The Knauf factory is a risky factory, accompanied by an oxygen plant Messer, which is also a risk, in the middle of the village is a divided gas station. As mentioned, firefighters were able to say that their intervention path was extended by five minutes at the assembly of the nationals at which the proposal to close this transition was addressed. This is five minutes, which is the difference between life and death, the difference between burning someone's house or keeping this place alive, the difference is whether an accident in a nearby industrial plant is confused at the right time or the whole factory flies into the air and takes you with it. The formal reason for closing this transition arose when a mile away was opened by the undercarriage. Now this alleged disputed crossing of Trata is to be closed and the local and all other traffic is to be diverted to the said underpass. But this undercarriage was built for industrial purposes. The crossing at Trata Train Station was overloaded with freight traffic and remains overloaded today. Although the vast majority of trucks have in fact moved on to submerged n-kilometres further towards Ljubljana, what 10% of them still drive after the existing transition. This is the only real problem this transition has. We therefore take the following position in Levica. Firstly, the crossing of the Trata railway station should remain open at least until the modernisation of the mountain railway line, in the context of which a more secure version of the out-of-war crossing must be taken care of. As part of the modernisation of the mountain railway, therefore, the needs of the Trata and the employees of neighbouring industrial plants should be ensured by a suitable means of transport. At that time and only then can the said passage be closed. What can be done immediately for the well-being of the countries of Trata and for greater security, however, is that at the time of the transition an appropriate signal is established, which travels freight transport to the sub-shipment of n-kilometres higher, which will thus not ruin the life of the Thracian countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm handing the word to the Minister-in-Charge. Alenki Brother. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The level crossing is the crossing of a public categorised or non-categorised road that is given for road traffic and railway lines at the same level that does not include access to platforms and service crossings. Level crossings are one of the most critical points in road traffic. According to Slovenian rules on road and rail safety, a train or other means of transport on the railway tracks has a higher priority due to the high weight and consequently an extremely long stopping distance than other road users. In most cases, accidents at level crossings occur due to the fault of road users, according to the findings of the Public Agency for Transport Safety of the Republic of Slovenia. Better security therefore requires greater attention, caution and respect for traffic rules and road traffic signals. The extraordinary events that took place at the level crossings are of course accidents, and 29 extraordinary events took place at the level crossings in 2018. One participant died, sadly, and nine of them were injured. By December 10th, however, there were two fatalities, one of them a 15 - year - old boy, and 14 injured. The legal basis for the prohibition of the use of the level crossing is the 12th paragraph of Article 31 of the Railway Safety Act, which allows the Minister responsible for transport to prohibit the use of road-rail crossings. When I swore my oath as Minister of Infrastructure, I swore here before you that I would respect the Constitution and the laws in force in our country. This is the only thing I'm following with the abolition of the Nile Passage. If I hadn't done that, I could have been asked for responsibility. But let us now look at this concrete level transition. This level crossing does not comply with the provisions of the Railway Safety Act which does not allow for a level crossing between the import and export sites which are on the main routes in the transport area. The transition is also not in line with the other provisions of the law, in terms of the distance between the niche crossings, the distance of the road crossings from the crossing and the proximity of the checkpoints. The story started already in 2018, when the Commission for Level crossings 4. Ten. 2008 found that the transition did not comply with the provisions of the Railway Safety Act. On the basis of the Commission’s decision, the then Minister responsible for Transport issued a decision stipulating in the first paragraph that the municipality and the Slovenian Railways must end this level crossing. I agree with Mr Kordish that things can be settled and will be settled when we restore the burner, if I may say so, at home. At the Ministry of Infrastructure yesterday, we wanted to confirm the project in the Government and place it in the budget. Unfortunately, because the project doesn't have yet, that's true, an approved investment project, the government didn't hear me. This can cause major problems, and perhaps we will not even succeed in making these two most urgent sections when the line is closed. But anyway, the burner's on schedule, the burner's being renewed, and then we'll, I believe, settle this, too. Dear Member, I ask you to understand that as Minister, I must and will and will always respect the laws and rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mrs Tadeja Šuštar, New Slovenia's Parliamentary Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u6	Thank you, President, for your word. Many local Tratas in the municipality of Škofja Loka signed a petition that opposes the transformation of the level crossing of the railway on Trata in the immediate vicinity of the railway station Škofja Loka. According to the new route, only pedestrians and cyclists would cross the route and vehicles would use 2.1 km of underway. The inhabitants of Trate and the congregation strongly oppose this, so they are preparing a consultation in Škofja Loka on Thursday. Representatives of the competent Ministry of Infrastructure DRSI and Slovenian Railways were also invited to attend. The arguments of the Ministry of Infrastructure are that the level crossing of the railway is contrary to the law on rail safety, the rules on level crossings and the rules on upper structures. At the Ministry, they also believe that the locals have a two-mile drive, which allows all drivers safe access to their residences and the center of Škofje Loka. The decision to reshape the transition was issued 11 years ago by the then Minister of Transport. The Ministry's opinion is that if we want to speed up the train ride, such unprotected crossings will have to be stopped. In addition, a comprehensive road-railing solution will also be implemented as part of the comprehensive regulation of the railway line. The police say the crossing is dangerous. In particular, freight vehicles, tractors, which sometimes even persist on rail tracks, pose a major risk. The Ministry compromises its proposal to close the crossing for motor vehicles, but the crossing of pedestrians and cyclists is still permitted. Locals and firefighters point out that this level crossing allows them fast access to two large industrial facilities in the area and that the use of a very transport chassis would extend their response time by between three and four minutes, although interventions in the event of an accident count every minute. The level crossing of the railway line at the Škofja Loka railway station on Trata between 6 and 22 p.m. daily crosses more than a thousand 500 vehicles of residents and employees in companies on the northern side of the railway line. If a thousand 500 vehicles carry out an additional 2.1 kilometers a day, that means an additional 3,000, 150 miles a day. In one year, this means quite a million additional miles. There is also information that there has never been an accident at the crossings. Residents also require that the crossing be lifted only when the underpass or overpass is arranged in the same location. The Municipality of Škofja Lok also responded. One of our strategic objectives in the area of sustainable mobility is the comprehensive functional urban and transport regulation of the entire influential area of the Škofja Loka railway station, as we are aware of the inadequacy of the existing situation, transport conditions and the security of the transitions in the area. This applies both to the adjustment of access to the platforms and the adequacy of the platforms themselves, as well as to the regulation of the level crossing of the railway and the safe access to the railway station of Škofja Loka for pedestrians, cyclists, users of public transport and cars, and to the regulation of a sufficient number of parking spaces in the affected area of the railway station. In the municipality of Škofja Loka, therefore, comprehensive functional arrangements of the integrated influential area of the railway station Škofja Loka are desirable, not partial regulation. In Novi Slovenija we see a solution to prevent only the driving of trucks through the passage. For other motor vehicles and pedestrians and cyclists, the crossing remains open until the Ministry makes an integrated railway line and all level crossings. The inhabitants must be heard and the undercarriage or overpass must be made at the same location.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you, Madam Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mag. Andrej Reich on behalf of the Party's Group Alenka Bratušek. Mr Member, you have five minutes, you can take advantage if you want, you can't.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! Today we have a debate on the answer of the Minister of Infrastructure to the question of Miha Kordiš on the closure of the Trat railway crossing. At the outset, I must express my surprise at the fact that such a question can be found on the list of oral questions in the light of the business provisions. In accordance with Article 243 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the questions raised by the written application on matters of local importance are to be referred to the competent minister and he will then draw up a written reply. However, the renewal of the rail network throughout the country is in the interest of all of us. Applications and requirements to speed up connections and improve the general situation are common. We hear many times that rail lines after Slovenia have not been properly updated for decades. And that's true. The Slovenian railway network has long been neglected. In recent years, and especially in the current composition of the Ministry, a number of things have begun to move. For example, some 40 kilometres of railways have been regulated since September 2018. However, there are many projects across the country in implementation. As a rule, however, infrastructure projects that improve matters also bring some discontent. The most disapprovals are encountered in the local population, which needs to adapt to and cancel certain long-run things at the expense of the changes. The habit is an iron shirt, they say, and it's often hard to take off. However, it should not be so when things happen on behalf of ensuring greater security. Among the problematic issues to be addressed are, in particular, level crossings. There is no exception to reducing their number of aspirations for Europe and Slovenia. Rail transport is considered to be the safest, most critical or most frequent road crossings. It has been shown that the problem is not only the passageways protected by the Andrey Cross but also those where the safety is cared for by semi-prisoners or prisoners. In the vast majority of cases, accidents are caused by a human factor, such as drivers who, with unwary and often hesitant conduct, pass through a passage where the prisoners have already been released. The potential danger applies to each of the crossings, but of course the fact that some of them are more dangerous than others. During the last ten years, most fatal accidents have been recorded, with Šiška coming out in particular. The last tragic incident at Ljubljana Stadium, Jacques, speaks eloquently of the fact that the best measure to increase the level of safety is the abolition of level crossings or their reduction to the smallest possible number. For example, the transition in question is not secured by prisons, but the proximity of the train is warned by both sound and light signals. Unfortunately, practice shows that this is often not enough. Now to the crossing of Trata. As early as 2008, the Minister of Transport signed a decision requiring his regulation. This is supposed to happen after the surrender of the undercarriage and the execution of the exodus crossing of the foothills. On a visit in April this year, the Commission on the Transitions of the Troop only confirmed the old findings. The proximity between the checkpoints is inadequate. The same applies to the distance between the level crossings and the signal signs for stopping trains. The current regime of transition is incompatible with as many as three legal and sub-legislative acts. The decision on what needs to be done, especially since it is taken on the basis of security assurances, is therefore clear. In addition, it can be considered as one of the measures that will, within the framework of the upgrade of the Ljubljana-Esenice railway line, ensure greater railway capacity and consequently higher train travel speeds and shorter travel time. This is what the people of Slovenia want for a very long time and what they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Branko Simonovic, on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! The abolition of the Nivoj railway crossing in Škofja Loka on Trata is opposed by the inhabitants of Trata village and the local community. Such a negative opinion of the peoples is understandable, since the railway crossing is a lifeline for the inhabitants of this village. The agreement of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which was issued on 29 May this year, is also understandable on the proposal of the Commission for the level crossings following the review of the documentation available and the re-examination itself on 11 April 2019. It should be said that the Railway Safety Act does not allow for a level crossing between the import and export sites on the main routes in the transport area. The transition is also not in line with the other provisions of the legislation, in terms of the distance between the niche crossings, the distance of the road crossings from the crossing and the proximity of the checkpoints. We also cannot oppose Minister Alenka Bratušek's reply to the question. She said that, as Minister, she had sworn to work in accordance with the law and was obliged to respect the law on railway safety, the rules on level crossings and the rules on upper structures. She also said that security and people come first. The non-conformity of the Ljubljana–Esenice crossing with the local road refers to the proximity of the checkpoints, the inappropriate distance between the level crossings and the signal signs for stopping trains. Perhaps one of us thinks less important is the agreement of the Ministry of State to close the border crossing in Škofja Loka on Trata, if that is of local importance. But for the people of Trata, this is a very important question. Incentive news or information on level crossings is to be read from a reminder of the level crossing arrangements prepared in the Office of the Ministry of Infrastructure of 17. 12. 2019 and signed by Secretary of State Nina Mahler. In this reminder, it is explained that on the basis of the documents adopted, the Ministry is planning a comprehensive regulation of the railway line at the Ljubljana-Jesenice section. The section covering the railway station of Škofja Lok, including the regulation of level crossings in the station area and the open railway area, is currently in the stage of drafting the project task for the development of the implementation plans. The measures provided for in this area will provide a lasting and comprehensive solution, in accordance with national and European legislation. They also wrote that a comprehensive solution to the regulation of level and out-of-war crossings could be different than the current situation. In Desus, we are confident that today's debate in the National Assembly will also help to regulate this railway transition in accordance with legislation, safety for the population and the satisfaction of the townspeople of Trat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Boris Doblekar, the Slovenian Democratic Party's emissary group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u12	Dear Members and Members! Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Minister of Infrastructure, who has been with us every day in Parliament. Obviously, there are quite a number of problems or perhaps this proves somehow that people want to see modern infrastructure in the first place, along with water and electricity. Today we are talking about the Minister's response to the Member of Parliament's question, Mr Kordiš, regarding the abolition of the Nitrogen crossing in Trata, Škofja Loka. Let me first say that this level crossing is secured by prisoners, so there will be no mistake. I've been a railway driver myself, I've been a train driver, I've been driving trains, I've been a mountain track a number of times, I know so well all the conditions on the track, how it's driving, what's safety in rail traffic, where the problems are, where the problems are, how it's driving across the open road, how it's driving through a fixed area, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be, how it's going to be. You know, drivers of personal vehicles or trucks, tractors, especially on the mountain track, where the crossings on the fields, literally, sometimes overlooking, are imagined, is poor visibility, is bad weather and these problems often occur. He's always afraid of a driver like the one who'll cross this aisle. This transition to the railway station in Škofja Loka, which is secured by prisons and sound and light signals, is problematic in the opinion of the Ministry under the law on railway safety because regulations and laws need to be respected and respected. As I am aware, an agreement was reached years ago between the municipality and the railway that when the railway approach is built, when the safety of crossing the railway, this level crossing at the station of Škofja Lok or on Trata would also be closed. This approach was then built, and the level crossing is still open and operational. Let me also say that at this level crossing at the train station, where the stations where the tracks are concentrated, security is in my opinion less threatened than on the open road, because there are, for the first time, reduced speeds at the station, secondly, stopping passenger trains and then taking off, they are lower speeds, we have traffic, we have mobile signals that are additionally guarding the station or transporting trains, we have import and export signals. In short, this transition is much safer than those crossings on an open track, where there are high speeds and only prisons that are fitted with special equipment for train rides. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party understand the problem of the countrymen, understand the problem of firefighters, but somehow we do not understand this fact that once there was another leadership in the congregation, there was obviously some agreement that was now no longer in force. I believe that they will find a common language, and together with the railroad and the ministry, they will solve this mystery for the benefit of all. It's hard for me to judge here now or stand on either side because I know these things, but I also know the legislation on rail safety. The proposal was to maintain this rail level crossing in such a way that it would be useful for pedestrians and cyclists, so that there would be altitude barriers that would not allow motorized traffic. In view of the fact that the proposal to cross this crossing of the vehicle was only personal vehicles, not freight, then I wonder how the firefighters would then, even though they long for this transition to remain functional, lead through this transition. In addition, I wonder how the firefighters will go to an intervention through this passage, if there may be a malfunction, or if the ramps will be closed for a longer time, or if any of these truck drivers, which sometimes stop on the tracks themselves, will have to go around and use this new built-up approach, which will be much faster. I am also interested in whether there is a question here of whether there is a municipality or a civil initiative that now wants this rail level crossing to remain on Trata, perhaps someone might ask what will happen if there is any accident at the time of the decision to close this transition. Who will answer if anyone is run over, if, I don't know, God forbid, mortal victims who often appear at these railway crossings are actually very risky. You mentioned it yourself, we know the cases from Ljubljana, from Šiška, where usually young people, children cross the railway line with headphones in their ears, they don't hear the train, they literally don't know where they are, a little phone is watching and the worst thing that no one wants, especially the parents of these children who are always worried about all those children who are moving around the railway area. If this transition is to remain in use for pedestrians and cyclists, it is necessary to build mazes, a barrier that motorised traffic does not pass. We already know cases like this. Where a pedestrian or a cyclist cannot be directly across the track, some obstacles are placed, it must actually stop and also make sure that there is no train on the track from any direction. It also makes a difference whether it is a single track or a two-tier track. There are also great differences in how to cross the railway crossing. The Ministry has its own, the municipality and civil initiative, I think that on Monday, if I know it, you will also get together in the field, in this transition all stakeholders, the municipality, namely the local community, and the civil initiative to keep this railway crossing. I believe they will also be present with the Ministry of Infrastructure. I hope that you will actually find some common solution that will be suitable for all in terms of greater user safety, i.e. the safety of pedestrians, cyclists, especially vulnerable groups, do not forget them, these are children and older ones who know that they are a little harder to cross such crossings. I am also pleased that, with our pressures, amendments, justifications have somehow achieved, of course, we have not achieved what we wanted in the budget to be allocated money for the whole modernisation of the mountain line, which is bloodyly deserved, in the fact that the mayors have already reserved their funds in municipal budgets for modernisation, as regards co-financing by the local community. We know that everything on the track does not pay the state budget, the Ministry of Infrastructure or the Directorate. It saddens me to hear that something is already getting complicated and that it is obvious that this part of the modernisation of the mountain line will be moved beyond that time frame when the railway caravan tunnel is being renewed and that the track will be closed for trains that will be on the road for six months. I hope that this will not come to a complicated conclusion and that the route will not be restored at that time. There has been so much promise, our amendments have been rejected and I believe that you will only succeed, with your influence, with your justification and perhaps also from this point of view that you are coming from Gorenjska, that this route will be fully regulated, that it will fully approach the regulation of all fixed areas, stations, stations, railway crossings, that this will finally be regulated as appropriate and as necessary. Let me add that, let's say the suggestion that now the underpass is built here in this place, where there is a level crossing, given that there is already one built, I hope to say that this will probably not happen soon, given how many projects there are still waiting for, such or similar throughout the country, so I'm a little skeptical when this approach would be built here. Sometimes we are a little machete to all these problems on the railway track, in regulating railway areas, railway stations and often do not work for the benefit of users, for the benefit of people, even too little money is devoted to this. If I'm next to Skofi Loki, I'm adding only one more case with Trata, which is very sad. The construction of the station in Grosuplje, where they themselves provided funds for the garage house, the state withdrew its hands and the station itself will not settle, which is very sad. If I'm done. Our position is to find a truly common language, to come up with some optimal solution on the same transition. The Krajina want to stay now, the decisions and the laws are different. It is necessary to step together and find an appropriate optimal solution with your hand. All of this, remember, in terms of greater safety in rail transport, that people will safely cross the crossing or that they will use as many of these approaches as possible or overpasses that are very rare, but also happen in our country. It's the only right solution, the only smart solution. Given that we are going in this direction, overpasses and approaches are being made and the trend towards breaking the level crossings continues, and I hope that it will continue as quickly as possible. I wish you good luck in the discussions so that in terms of greater safety for all users, greater safety in rail transport you can find that common optimal solution and then come to the common language. That there won't be a lot of disagreements and that people think that the state doesn't want to settle anything, that the railroad doesn't care about what's not true. Railroaders are always trying to make transport safe, so that traffic is as fast as possible, as comfortable as possible, but of course they are limited by certain means and more than that is not possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mag. Bojana Muršič, Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you very much, President for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia received its first railway line in 1846, bringing rapid economic development and expansion of urban areas to cities and towns along the then route [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u15	Dear Member, just a moment, please wait. Ladies and gentlemen, the rest of you present, I would like your attention to the Member of Parliament. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Until 1954, we built 35 railway links in the area of today's Slovenia, which were not only local or regional, but also international. All these railway links were of paramount importance to the economy and passenger transport at the time. Important railway links include the mountain line, which is of great importance for the transport of different cargo within and across Slovenia. In addition, daily train compositions bring a large number of passengers who migrate daily to attend school or go to work. The Gorenje track is not only important for local and wider regional development, but also plays a major international role as it continues to be in neighbouring Austria, with which Slovenia has a large share of exports in the economy. The Ministry of Infrastructure, together with the Slovenian Railways, modernises and jointly aims to make connections faster, more comfortable and, above all, to ensure sustainable mobility. Through European funds, a number of investments in public rail infrastructure will be carried out until 2022, which will also cover the entire line sections, including the proper implementation of the crossing of roads and railways. In the Social Democrats Group, we advocate the view that public rail infrastructure needs to be modernised and modernised, as it will only be possible to achieve the objectives of sustainable mobility, carbon neutrality and release traffic jams and chaos in major urban suburbs. Only modern and high-tech railway infrastructure will provide better conditions for more and more people to decide on the use of public rail transport. In any event, different hubs and crossings of railways and roads must be resolved in such a way as to ensure greater safety in crossing the railway line while ensuring smooth driving of train compositions. Existing railway lines need to be renovated, restored and made more secure and functional than they are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Ms Mateja Udovč, Group of the Modern Centre Party, has the floor. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u18	Dear President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleague and colleague! Today we will hold a general debate on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure to the question of the closure of the railway crossing at Trata in Škofja Loka. I come from this environment alone, and I am very aware of how important this railway transition is for the local population. However, we are reluctant to ask in the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre whether the National Assembly is a suitable place to discuss the topic, which is so very locally coloured. Given that we still have more than 400 level crossings with the Andrej Cross in Slovenia, it might be more appropriate to discuss the safety of railway crossings in general. In a specific case, however, we are also asked whether this level crossing is truly so safe that it is necessary to close it, whether it is merely a hypothetical threat. Or it's just blindly following technical regulations, because unfortunately we don't have statistics on the number of accidents on this transition. We also do not have data on the number of accidents at other nearby railway crossings. However, if we look at the subject in the light of the budgetary debate, we cannot avoid the lack of the necessary budgetary resources for the reconstruction of the mountain railway. Nevertheless, the competent ministry has ensured that the reconstruction of the railway line will begin in the following year, at the same time as the reconstruction of the caravan tunnel. We have also received assurances from Members that sufficient resources will be provided. The saga of the Troop crossing on Trata has been dragging for more than ten years. As early as 2004, a study was conducted entitled Urbanist ventilation of the area along rail lines at the Škofja Loka railway station, which envisions both a new approach to the industrial zone and a new approach to Trata village. At the same time, the railway station Škofja Loka is also to be arranged in an integrated manner. The Municipality of Škofja Loka is expected to do this in partnership with the Slovenian Railways. In view of the current situation, we see that the activities in this regard are not completed. Local residents were promised to provide an alternative as part of the modernisation of the railway, the Ljubljana-Kranj-Jesenice railway line. This means that, until this alternative is provided, the abolition of this railway transition is problematic. We do not mean to be stubborn in defending the existing situation, but we are convinced that the Ministry of Infrastructure, Slovenian Railways and Municipality of Škofja Loka should in a reasonable way seek solutions to ensure the safety and adequate mobility of all participants in road and rail transport. The abolition of the niche transition is particularly problematic in terms of the general safety and transport accessibility of the local inhabitants of Trat. The agreement to end the railway crossing given by the Ministry of Infrastructure on the basis of a proposal from the Slovenian Railway Commission is also problematic because the closure of the motor traffic crossing would also extend the intervention path for all intervention vehicles. Railway crossings provide greater accessibility to areas where both residential and economic facilities are located. But we all know that in the event of an accident, how important it can be every minute. Last but not least, we must not forget that we are talking about an industrial zone, an area where serious accidents that can also have major environmental consequences can occur, so it is essential that the intervention path is as short as possible and as fast as possible. And that we will not be misunderstood, the arguments put forward by the Minister regarding the closure of the transition, which relate in particular to the provision of security, are entirely in place. At the same time, we must not overlook the arguments of the local population. When the news of the planned closure of this railway crossing reached the local Trat and the Municipality of Škofja Lok, a consultation on this topic was immediately organized. Unfortunately, no common agreement has been reached at this meeting. The locals and representatives of the municipality have been admiring the position that the railway line will be maintained in its existing form until the entire renovation of the mountain railway. The representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Slovenian Railways, however, defended the official position of these two institutions on the partial closure of the level of transition. The current agreement of the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is intended to allow only pedestrians and cyclists, remains valid. However, according to our information, the traffic regime on this level crossing has not changed yet. Traffic is still permitted for motor vehicles up to a specific total weight, cyclists and pedestrians. We believe that, with more effective control of the traffic of freight vehicles through this transition, the current transport regime could be maintained until the construction of an appropriate alternative facility, but as already mentioned should be a common challenge for the Ministry of Infrastructure, Slovenian Railways and the Municipality of Škofja Lok in the coming period. We would also like to point out that this railway crossing closed for all freight traffic in 2016, resulting from a new import road to industrial facilities. In this regard, the local community has repeatedly pointed out that the implementation of this measure has been poor. The traffic signs with which such a traffic regime was marked were also poorly visible. As a result, there have been violations. And the key question here is why the consequences of the apparent lack of police and red tape control must now be borne by local people, for whom this railway transition is of great importance. Nevertheless, we must bear in mind that rail transport is an important part of sustainable mobility. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, it seems to us that further discussions are focused primarily on addressing the issue of the closure of the railway line, together with all stakeholders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. As the last to represent the position of the Group of Members, you are Mrs Natasa Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you, Chairman. Your Honor! On 29 May this year, the Ministry of Infrastructure issued an agreement to end the level crossing at Trata Railway Station. This should first be transformed into a transition only for pedestrians and cyclists, but completely closed after the construction of an out-of-war crossing. Automobile traffic is supposed to be diverted to a mile away. The reason for the restructuring and temporary closure of this transition, which we do not know how long it will take, is that the transition does not meet modern security standards. The transition is a lifeline for the inhabitants of the village of Trat. The entire local community opposes the closure of this railway crossing because the closure means the interruption of one of the main transport lines used by the local Trate, Škofja Loka and the wider environment. And worse still, security for the population, which is the excuse for closing this transition, will not be strengthened, but vice versa. The roadside on which the road will be fully diverted is a good mile away. Environmental firefighters tried the intervention route through the underpass and found it extended by 4 to 5 minutes. That is the difference between saving a life or not for someone who needs emergency medical attention. That's the difference between who burns down the house or not. Since the existing transition leads to an intervention path to the surrounding industry, this is also the difference between timely accident control and possible explosion. It's not just a hypothetical scenario, as it was heard here today. This year, the factory Knauf Insulation was on fire. It was burned in addition to a gas cylinder warehouse where helium, argon, ethylene, oxygen and stargon were stored under high pressure. If they hadn't sent 64 firefighters in time, those tanks would have blown up. In the event of a fire, firefighters from Trata, Gostec, Škofje Loka, Stare Loka, Groharce and professional firefighters from Kranj will not be able to drive to the location of the event on roads leading from the undercarriage along the railway route, compressed road through the village of Trata or after August across the field. In addition, the Knauf Insulation factory is not only critical. This is where the gas distribution station and the Messer oxygen plant are located. When we talk about the issue of fire safety, we must not just talk about the arrival of firefighters at the scene of a fire, one of these very critical sites where this major explosion can also occur. What about evacuation routes for residents and residents? Just imagine chaos at the same time using these narrow throats by firefighters in one direction and residents and residents in the other. The general confusion in the event of a greater fire would only extend the duration of the intervention. In Levica we advocate the view that the Trata railway crossing must remain open until the end of the upgrade of the mountain railway. This should also include an appropriate out-of-line crossing for the local Routes and the employees in the vicinity of the existing crossing, which has been used practically since the railway line runs here. In addition, boards and signalling must be placed on the transition immediately, which redirects road freight traffic to a kilometre of underground transport in the industrial zone. Only in this way would we achieve improved safety at the existing transition and divert road freight from the transition, while at the same time not closing one of the key crossing points for the country's and country's Trate. Most importantly, they would not have closed the evacuation route in the event of a fire and extended the intervention routes to firefighters, paramedics and other intervention services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded our presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Before we go to the general debate and before I give the floor to the applicant, I just want to inform you that the list of applicants has already changed significantly. We currently have 9 Members and Members of Parliament. Let me give you a heads-up on the first four. The first one will be Mrs. Tadej Šuštar, followed by Dr. Franc Trček, then Mr Željko Cigler and then Mrs Nataša Sukič. Mr. Speaker, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, chairman. Whenever there's a link between the railway and the road, so when we have a intersection directly across each other, the situation is risky, it's risky. But she's either at risk in the same way or in the same way that we risk every time we get in the car and get on the road. The most we can do in such a situation is to secure and properly arrange a passage across the railway. However, we will never completely eliminate the risks, especially those posed by the human factor. Because we can't. Even at this railway crossing on Trata, no one says that it could not be better. Moreover, the common position of the entire local community is – and this is the position that we join in Levica – that the transition should remain open for as long as it does not provide an alternative, more precisely, an overpass, perhaps an appropriate underpass near an existing transition. And when this subway is taken care of, the passage across the railway, which is linear, so risky in any case, can be closed. While this is not the case, the Trata railway crossing remains the main power supply for the villages of Trata and for 450 employees in the surrounding industrial zone. At the same time, it is also the main intervention path, which is significantly prolonged if the transition is closed, and the local village of Trata, like the employees of Knauf, is, for example, exposed to additional risks. So the transition closes for a reason and with a reason of security, but in fact, if we close this transition, that means exposing the surrounding population and employees in the industrial danger zone to an industrial accident, the firefighters will not be able to get to the scene in time and – what? Messer's oxygen plant is going to boom. In one of the views it was said that matters of local importance should not be discussed in the National Assembly. If an industrial accident occurs here, such as may occur, especially if intervention vehicles are not able to arrive at the site of the accident in time, it will not be local news. It will be a terrible accident, they will be dead and such an accident would find their way into the national media, it would not be local. But we don't want anything to happen to us if we can do anything about it. And to keep the crossing at Trata train station open is a measure to increase the safety of the surrounding population and employees in the industrial zone. If this transition were to be so formally problematic, it would have been closed a long time ago. He wasn't. This is an argument of respect for the laws, if we don't close this transition, we don't respect the laws, and that's not the case. Only in our country do we have a few hundred outposts. There are a number of them in Skofja Loka alone, which I do not know legally, but in fact are more dangerous than that. The further problem we have in addressing the issue of railway crossings in a comprehensive manner is also the following. There is no provision for the modernisation of the railway line at this point. The current closure is expected to take place in the next steps. First, the crossing is closed only for motor vehicles in order to remain open only for pedestrians and cyclists and, as part of the modernisation of the mountain railway, an out-of-line crossing is to be built, but again only for pedestrians and cyclists, not for cars. So what we would like to achieve with today's debate is two. Firstly, this transition remains open, as it is, until the modernisation of the mountain railway. Secondly, that the modernisation of the mountain railway includes the construction of a subway for the purposes of accessing the countries of Trata and employees in the industrial zone around where the current transition is located. Thirdly, to ensure that the signal is finally properly and in a comprehensive manner that will move all the trucks from this rail transition to an industrial chassis some mile further. This latter is the main operational problem facing the local community, regardless of which political party a more vocal member of this local community belongs to. We are all in the same position, independent of our other political colours. For a better performance I have prepared some graphics more precisely on the Internet, so you will be more easily able to imagine with Google maps what it looks like. This is a train connection. There's a train station here. This is the passage we're talking about, Knauf, and here's the slightly higher O2 Messer village, Trata. There's this undercarriage right here. That, I repeat, is an industrial submersible. It was built for the purposes of industry, for the purposes of access to the industrial zone, trucks and the like, but not as an alternative to the day-to-day migration of nationals and employees. Here's another picture that illustrates how much longer the intervention path is. You don't even need firefighters to tell you this, Google can tell you that this route is longer than two kilometers or as far as driving time is concerned for 4 minutes. Now you're walking across the line here, then you have to make all this turn here through the industrial undercarriage to get to the same location. I think it would be more than reasonable to conclude that this railway crossing should remain open. I mentioned earlier that we also have far worse protected passages across the railway in Škofja Loka. Just to find the right picture. Here it is, we have more in the Skofia Loka. If we go from Ljubljana towards Gorenska, we have it in Retec, Godesič, then in Virmaš and in St. A ghost. All these transitions are potentially more problematic than that in Trata. The question here is, why the hell did the bureaucrat machine get into this very transition and want to lock it on the door. I think it's just following some of the paper regulations you've been sticking around to hook them. There is no strong political lobbyist or any other interest at the back, and this is a classic example of bureaucracy that sings itself, even though that would not be necessary. Most of the views, including the position of the Minister, if I am not mistaken, began with a paper trail in the story of closing this transition with 2008. At that time, an act was indeed issued by the Ministry in order to go into the process of closing this transition. This was confirmed again on 29 May this year when the Ministry of Infrastructure signed the closure decision. But there is another document, a document that is a promise to the environment at the same time. Ideal study, 21 pages long, dating back to 2004. From this study it is very clear what was promised to the population there: the transition is closed, yes, but it is built, for the first time, an industrial chassis and, for the second time, a subway is built for the purposes of access to the countries. That promise was not respected. It was just an industrial undercarriage. And that's it. However, on the nose it forces itself to close the railway crossing at Trata Station, although in reality there is no real need. The locals do not remember the mention of a valuable accident that would occur on this transition, so there is really no need for life to do so right now because — what? The biggest concern here is once security remains. Security for sure. If this transition is closed, the intervention path is extended, the roads through you are inappropriate for any mass evacuation or access to intervention vehicles, and there is actually an industrial accident on hold that can be very serious. Perhaps another aspect that has so far not been mentioned in the debate and in the views of the parliamentary groups. This transition currently uses all kinds of different vehicles. Thirsty is driven by farmers who access their fields, and forklift is driven by forklifters, some kind of local delivery. Now imagine what happens if all this traffic is diverted to an industrial underpass and is the only way it can be redirected, the main subscriber of Ljubljana–Skofja Loka. We'll meet forklifters on the main road and tractors that aren't even registered to drive there. These are all the examples that the natives who live there can tell and who are monitoring the traffic passing their village. This is about as if a brush of tractors were used in the Celovska vehicle and forklifts. Do you know what the traffic load is like? I wouldn't even start here with security. I think the problem stops at a traffic jam. All the real reasons testify against the crossing of Trat closing. At the same time, bureaucratic provisions, the law, the regulation and so on, which mark this transition as something inconsistent, suggest that an alternative is still to be taken care of, an even safer alternative, and this is the construction of the subway in the context of the reconstruction of the mountain railway. Until then, let the crossing remain open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First he gets the word of Ambassador Tadej Shuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Signalling devices must ensure the highest level of safety regardless of age and origin, so they shall be regularly inspected, serviced and updated. Finally, these are safety devices, which means that they protect and that every indication of the operation of the device shows a smooth operation, errors, disturbances, all. In the event that the security system does not work properly, the train shall be stopped, which shall apply to all level crossings. I have one more thing to point out. When one makes it clear that the prisoners have not been released, the prisoner is not a security element. The safety component is red flashing lights, light should be taken into account, not waiting for the prisoners to be released, although the release of the prisons is also controlled. In the event of a malfunction or a malfunction, the train stops before the crossing, waits, catalogues and then slowly passes over this passage because, last but not least, the traffic rules give priority to the train. That is how security is ensured in all cases. This is generally the case with regard to level crossings. The case on Trati is not lonely. During the modernisation of some routes, several crossings with prisons have been closed by construction of out-of-war crossings, undercarriages, overpasses, or some overpasses, and some are intended for only pedestrians and cyclists, and motorized traffic has been carried out through new facilities. In this case, I think it would also be appropriate to leave this concrete passage at least for pedestrians and cyclists, possibly also for intervention vehicles, in order to install a flood wave that prevents other vehicles from being driven. Why? Because if the transition is completely closed, people will still pick up some shortcuts and walk across the railway line, which is significantly more dangerous than they do at the official secured crossing. As far as railway safety and modernisation are concerned. Level crossings are allowed to reach a speed of 160 kilometres per hour, and all crossings along the routes at speeds above 160 kilometers per hour must be off - limits. The mountain line, such as it is now, will never be modernised or upgraded for speeds higher than 160 kilometers per hour, and not least is the transition to a fixed area where speeds are even low, since the vast majority of trains must stop. As far as firefighters are concerned, driving them through the undercarriage — the undercarriage is 580 metres from the prison — represents several minutes of longer driving. That's true, but even prisoners can be closed for five minutes. Or is it possible that in such a case, they are slaloming through prisons? In such cases, the longer route may still be more time-consuming as the transition is within the fixed area. On an open track, the prisoners begin to descend during the train ride and are calculated to close for about 10 seconds before the train arrives. When the train passes by, they immediately open up behind it, everything can take less than a minute. This is different in the fixed area. The train path must be secured in time for the signal to be released to take the train to the station. If two trains cross, it is not necessary to open in between, but they can remain closed where the road must be secured for the opposite train. And we're in five minutes fast. In this case, several times a day, I hope to claim that certainly some twenty times. So, yes, we're for modernisation. But things need to be changed, too. What is what actually increases security, and what reduces it? The closure of the protected passage will lead to dangerous routes across the railway, as people will always look for shortcuts. However, all devices and regulations are designed to accurately prescribe train driving protocols in all possible situations. Therefore, let us say there is no reason for passenger traffic on the new route to Kočev from year to year under the pretext that no signalling devices are installed on the track. Even on the route without signalling devices, the traffic may be smooth. It is specified exactly how it is to be treated in such cases. The Jarše station - Mengeš station, which I drive several times, has no signalling devices, drives over it daily practically 40 passenger trains and so far there has never been an incident because it is governed by rules. Although there have been several accidents on the level crossing, solely due to the lack of drivers, the speed of the train is low, and transparency is good. Since the section of the line is a level, it is a state of transport culture in Slovenia. In recent times, even more accidents have occurred at otherwise secure prison crossings than at unprotected ones. Let me just remind you of three catastrophic cases this year in the Mine area. In one case, the collision of a passenger train with a truck was even so severe that the train could no longer be repaired on the prisons because the driver did not take them into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Now it's the lefty package. First of all, Dr. Franz the Duck, followed by Turtle the Brick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. I'm gonna take this package. I thank my colleague Tadej, who is quite a few things in principle. You know I'm in love, it's almost addiction, the train and the railroad. I've had everything. I remember, once, the Roma tied up the locust when they were picking up the herbs, and we ran her over. I was on a train at the Mine when we ran into a car. Last time the cable broke off, we were on the train for two hours. It was on the train, too. My mother passed out on the train, and we didn't know where the ambulance picked her up. So that's what I know. My colleague said it very well. The problem is also our traffic unculture. You know, I've lived a lot of lives in my rich life. I didn't turn my back on Comrade Kordish for rudeness. If I now mention Maribor, where I live for the longest time in my life, is in the second place of Škofja Loka, where I was a citizen for a long time, first I lived in Karlovac, then in Podlubnik, and finally I was also on Trata, and I know these things and situations very well. When I heard that, I remembered a case in the previous term, the Magna case. When people there, who will build them a factory, a painting shop, ask a little questions about what is going on, then the big SMC – probably a colleague of Perič will want to do something procedural again – something when it was necessary to talk to people in Hotch, and no one came from executive power. It's literally nobody. This problem is a problem that I am tying to something – I know that I am already small and I repeat myself – I like it very much because in English bureaucracy is usually called civil servants. In short, they serve civilization, people, citizens, citizens, citizens, citizens, citizens. But I don't have to translate the terms servants. I think you're actually running into two problems here. One problem is that we haven't had serious urbanism in 30 years and that we actually underestimate people. Somebody thinks of something, okay, come on, if there's no fluids there, because maybe they won't do some civil initiative, and they'll sign it, and we'll get to it somehow. That's not how you do it. In the 1990s, then as a young researcher, as a spatial sociologist, there were a lot of Dutch people working through the Twinning project and related projects across Slovenia, explaining to us how they have developed participatory models of putting certain things into space. I was still young, like Kordish in the previous term – these hormones are working a little bit, and Kordish has calmed down, and he has grown — and I thought, what are you selling me? But no. You know, these are some elaborate approaches to how you handle these things. And if this were worked out for me, if our bureaucracy, as the Secretary of State says at probably the most challenging ministry at the moment, for the environment and space, would not be bureaucracy and there would be no need for such meetings. After a meeting yesterday, where we are or are, with exceptional New Slovenia and us, everyone would abuse the Slovenes, wherever they live, we could be at home today. We have a problem. If we compare, we have a little bit more or too many of these transitions. We should also think about certain pits or trenches, as it is done, so that you do not have some level crossings. In this particular situation we have some perplexity, or if you want to simultaneously use space and time, my colleague Dr. Hočevar would say the same scene, with industry, with some locals and with some regionality. Or as Micah put it nicely, we have an industrial undercarriage, we have a main bypass, and we have a problem with some local traffic, and someone has come up with it, I don't know if it's even been in specific situations, but let's close it down. If we had better public passenger traffic, local passenger traffic, which may not be as bad in Škofja Loka if we had a respectable system of regional cycling routes, would probably be less than 500 people driving from there to the shuttle, even with a car. So then it's done with taxes. Certain German cities have this: if a company signs or people sign that there will be so many and so many vehicles on a public transport shaft, then you pay less tax because you occupy fewer parking areas. But of course, you have to provide people with an alternative first, not a screwdriver. And here's the problem and actually this case. After all, it is also a transition that is not as risky as many others, Tadeja listed some of them, and I would like to give you a few more. We're talking about a green Europe, a position, I think even NSI – a little too much advertising for you today – has been calculated that this is over a million additional kilometres per year, and it seems to me that, Miha, there is still an underestimated number of those who go to checkout, that's probably even more. On the one hand, we will spread out how we are all green, and on the other hand, we will show, in practice, that this is not the case. I admit that this mandate is a little small – but in fact, Mrs Bratušek, although I believe that you sincerely want to move something – when I listen so many times “I want it, but then it gets stuck there in the government”. I will not read Article 114 of the Constitution again. I don't know if I'd been in the government and I'd be trying something for a third of my term, and I'd be head-to-head with a wall of butt, I'd call a press conference, and I'd say, look, I wanted to do everything, kid, I can't work with these, I'll back out. I am also speaking as President of the Health Committee, colleague Bratušek. After all, I love you and I'm worried about your health. But of course, this is a problem for some governments, because certain people step into oversized shoes — and I don’t mean you here. There is also a problem for us politicians, including the media space, including what Masha said – who will even want to go to minister or minister. That I won't be too long. When placing anything in space, we or the locals are an integral part of this placement, which is not a policy or profession, I don't know who can't overrun. We live in a society where bureaucrats just don't go on the field enough. We've probably made it so complicated through the law that someone doesn't have time, but who hides somewhere, that other façades work even more. We had quite a few heated discussions on cohesion issues. It saddens me that I was almost the only one at that long session who was essentially asking about cohesion issues, if we're being honest. That's now the fifth candidate or candidate I've bothered with with a so-called back office, a field office. In these cases, you also need people who go through some school to communicate with people. You know, when you get into a situation like this, of course someone's going to go crazy, someone's going to burn, sometimes it's going to happen that someone's really going to have to drive 230 meters longer. On the project we had a situation in Port when the priest realized that the pharaohs would really have to drive a few hundred meters more to the church and made such a fine that we had to draw the whole project again. We're doing this to spatial sociologists, we're anticipating future conflicts, and we're trying to minimize them if we don't get rid of them. In short, Mrs Bratušek, at the Ministry of Infrastructure, we should urgently hire five such sociologists – I am advertising for my good former students. In short, when it comes to these matters, it is necessary to talk to the local population at the beginning of the planning. Many times too — here, colleague Meira Hot, as well as colleague Perič, could confirm to me as an ex - parishioner — that even the congregation has a few fascias, that you do not know, and then the mayor usually pushes the parishioner or the parishioner, and all the manure pours on you what you are doing. Here we also have a problem of some different territorial levels of the country, which, as civil servants, must cooperate with one another. The second is that this is also a budgetary problem. We should finally put an end to these small-scale projects, which we simply scattered a little bit around the room, if you are from the right political quotas, then someone will be elected for the next term. And there's always something -- I'll say what I have at the end of my tongue -- we're shitting. We have a specific situation here, we have three of the oldest Slovenian cities. Škofja Loka is a pearl. I regret to visit her too few times. I have to go. It's not funny. And then with a move on Trata – Miha mentioned a few more passages, in short, let us say from Medvod to at least the end of Trata to Kranj – save as a whole. Now some former mayor is looking at me. Bohinj too will have to be saved as a whole. We should also start talking about TNPs about what we're going to do with this TNP, not fighting for the next 30 years, but not where the TNP is going to be. It is also the responsibility of the policy to sometimes rise up a little bit above whether I will be elected or not. Each of us is before we go into politics with a leg and a half, with the whole ass out of politics. Then we have these stories that are already in the Guinness Book of Records, this happy, unhappy Ribnica-Kočevje railway. Minister, I also have some information to install some old equipment and there may be someone messing with something with the money, but let the KPK deal with it, specifically in this case. Not to talk about the route against my birthright white landscape. And that's worse than when I was a pub boy and started going to high school. Some serious companies, the Swiss Confederation, are well aware that Rajh has a brother there in the mid-80s when these spatial software began to work, decided that the basic backbone of public passenger transport of the railway, the citizen and the citizen would have 30 minutes until the first train station. Okay, you've got a lot worse where it's a little harder. And then based on that, you generate social space development, infrastructure, urbanism and so on. And then you have a little different than – now I've been to KOGE – around the clinical center in Ljubljana. What do we got? We have something that used to be half the suburbs of Ljubljana, not to be offended there in Vodmat, you have some half-breeded cottages there, people with some parking spaces serve, we have some accommodation, we have one place in Slovenia with the most people, over 8 000, and we have nurses who will be hunting and looking tomorrow after Ljubljana where they will park. We have the same in the National Assembly. The National Assembly does not even know where our people will be, especially those with lower salaries, parked cars. What does that tell us? This tells us that after 30 years we are still a society and a country that does not think ourselves. That's because we come from this petty politicization. In particular, in this case, this transition should be closed to the freight transport to go on the industrial underpass, allowing local traffic to continue there, Miha said very well because otherwise we will put it on the main pad or on the regional road. When – I hope – money will also be found for the mountain route, then it is probably necessary to think about and think about an approach that may not be exactly this location. However, so many locals are reasonable, if this is the case, because they are already relatively close there, a slightly more complex situation of railway infrastructure is, and this is it. And I know that people there are so reasonable, so much more reasonable than most of us in Parliament, that this can be done with them, as our colleagues say, “shut up”. And that's it. This is done in societies that respect their own citizens and citizens and who are able to think for themselves. I hope that we will have another debate on Slovenian railways, which must become one guide if you want, green Slovenia, but not a sparover of some few right-wing SDS political options, a little crossed with the Hanovo work of SD. Because I know exactly what's going on there. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u27	Proposer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u28	During the intervention of Comrade Franjota, I was able to gather together graphic material to substantiate the argument in my previous debate. To start where access to the industrial zone leads and to the village of Trat if the transition closes. Here, I've waved this picture before. [[shows photo]] Here is the passage, if closed, the whole traffic on wheels is diverted to the industrial chassis. The alternative to powering you and Knauf is this road. But even if you go to Google Street View, let's say if you can't see from this map, this road is narrow, especially in this last stretch, and it's problematic. I didn't make that up, that's what our local firefighters said when they tested it all together. They say that, by the way, this is the main alternative. So not only can the intervention path be extended, it can be completely disabled, perhaps even very likely to be disabled. We have other access, but these accesses are absolutely inappropriate. Let's say these two roads through you are a little bit narrower, you drop them through a column of fire trucks that will lead to the end if they lead to the end, so that all angles from the byte will be picked up in between. Or a third alternative, one big curve here across the field, after grammes, after August, which we all believe can be agreed that there is no alternative. In short, the only way around normal access to intervention vehicles, and ultimately also to personal transport, is through an existing transition. No industrial undercarriage, which is one kilometer ahead, can absorb all this traffic properly, channel it. There are only more problems, including more security problems. One of these many problems has also been mentioned — that tractors drive through this passage, taking local supplies, even forklifters. All of this would then be translated into Loka-Ljubljana's main raid, or Ljubljana-Loka, and you can imagine what chaos and what burden this means for this subscriber. I'm talking about this road. [[shows photo]] Here is a intersection that leads to the industrial undercarriage and leads forward to Škofja Loko. The next intersection is Lipica. Now imagine, this is the main entry in Lipica to bring a forklifter down here and drive towards Ljubljana. Calmly, a kilometer, two of us are going after the main raid with the forkkeeper against Ljubljana – no, of course not. Same intersection, except on the other side. [[shows photo]] You come here from the train station, you see Lubnik back here, and this road is the road that leads towards Ljubljana. Further, the third point that I would like to highlight with graphic material is the remaining railway crossings, which are probably all more risky than the one we have on Trata, but unfortunately they are not looked at in full. I'll start at the Ljubljana end and then I'll move on to the Gornji. Railway crossing in Retec. Unlike the train station in Loka, where the train is already blocking, it is slowly taking the train here. What you see back here is -- you know what? Children's playground. That's the Retecs. Next up is Godesich. This is basically a forest road, not too busy, mainly some tractors, access to the surrounding guest and so on. Then we have this industrial undercarriage in the middle of the train, which brings me to the upper leg of the bad railway, if I say so, Virmash. This transition was an accident this year. So not that rail crossing on the track that is now closing, this passage was in an accident when they crashed, if I'm not mistaken, a passenger train and a truck. To conclude the last passage, I can call it my home passage into the Holy Spirit. One anecdotes of one of the surrounding locals associated with this transition. These prisoners are pretty flabby. They're pretty flimsy, because if a train comes from the end, it closes right in front of the rats, if it comes from the bad side, it closes down, I don't know when. And it had already happened that someone in the car was waiting for three quarters of an hour before the closed cells when the train was coming or was supposed to be coming from the Ljubljana route, that is, from the railway station of Škofja Lok forward to Gorenjska. What happened? The man picked up the phone, started calling what it was now, thinking it was something to open – yes, yes, some, up, down, the prisoners stayed, eventually people unpacked from the car, put these prisoners up on their hands and took them across. But now it's going to be one of the railway crossings that is probably the most secure one that is most in daily use – which is why people are the most cautious in this use – and which, of course, can be closed. Moreover, I will take a step further, which must be closed, but only after an alternative, undercarriage, is provided as part of the modernisation of the mountain railway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have only three more registered members: Mr Željko Cigler, first of all, Mrs Nataša Sukič and Mr Boris Doblekar are preparing. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u30	Your Honor! Dear Madam Secretary! The debates on transport in this National Assembly are recent – I mean, I don't know how it was in the previous term – very dense, which highlights the importance of this sector for life and development in the Republic of Slovenia. Today's debate opened by fellow Member Kordish is not at all a problem of local rank. The fact is – and I will end up giving cases from somewhere else – that this is a national problem. In fact, when we open crossings across the railway, if level crossings or crossings are secured only by the Andrey Cross, as fellow Member Doblekar said, having experience in rail transport – this means slowing down and disorderly rail transport. In short, rail passenger traffic, as well as freight, does not work this way. However, we know that when the National Assembly adopted the strategy and resolution on the development of transport in the Republic of Slovenia in 2016, it gave particular weight to rail transport. A guest and a fast, accessible rail passenger transport would greatly relieve roads in the country. To know what I'm talking about – the collapse that's happening every morning, I'll say only against Ljubljana, not to mention other major cities, because it's the same thing, either from the bottom, the Stairs or from the seaside, when all the personal vehicles are for work, the trucks on the road. That's when traffic stops, Slovenia almost doesn't work. If we had regulated rail traffic and space for it, a place to benefit, perhaps a little to the detriment of freight, the situation would be different. This sustainable mobility was endorsed by the strategy and resolution adopted by the 2016 National Assembly. As I have already said when we speak, discussions in this National Assembly are now drawing particular attention to where we are going to put, how much we are going to finance, and where fast roads will take place between places that really need to be linked. The railroad's gone sideways. I'll tell you, if there were countless level crossings or crossings of the railway only with the Andrey Cross, with which it is secured, passenger traffic from Velenje, Šmartny ob Paka, Braslovč, Polzele, Žalca do Celje, if I only take this section, mine, from where our Minister of Home also took place significantly faster, quickly. Many more people would use it, and roads would be less burdensome. I would also say that, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would make the energy and climate plan much easier to prepare if it were to work on the development of rail transport, especially to say passenger transport, because it is completely neglected. Just updating the railways would enable – fast, guests and users to have safe passenger traffic. Believe me, Madam Minister, if it comes with a guarantee law – I know that this is not a cheap matter – for this purpose in the National Assembly, I think that there would not be much to think about here in support, but it would be achieved almost unanimous. That I won't be too long, I'll just say this. So that no one would say about Comrade Kordiša who made this proposal for Trata, which is in fact just one of many, but still a sensitive example of how the environment and the population suffers at this end, I will say this. I am from Celje and in my congregation we have on a road where all day long there are loads between 15 and 20 thousand vehicles, this is the road to Lava, which directly connects to the Celje bypass, the level crossing. The dangers here are very large, a lot of passenger traffic, I'm going to say squires, truckers, buses, first aid vehicles, firefighters and so on. For this transition all the permits have been obtained, all the consent has already been obtained – but there are not a thousand 500 crossings here, I said between 15 and 20 thousand a day – and this transition awaits. 500 meters lower, in Vruncheva, where the school comes directly from – the level crossing of the railway secured only by prisoners. If you go further towards the Savina Valley, I said before, do not count these crossings, and all these crossings cause both passenger and freight traffic in this part of Slovenia, but I think it is identical elsewhere, very slow and almost inoperable. And that's why passengers and cargo move to roads where it doesn't work anymore. These crossings also need to be rerouted, if viewed as on Trati, to the point where the underpasses, overpasses or other forms of out-of-military crossings are arranged. For this reason, I believe that, Madam Minister, this debate needs to be supported in this direction and that a proposal should be made to support you in this sense, in accordance with the resolutions and strategies on the development of transport and in order to be able to make a national energy and climate plan, to prepare a document for the National Assembly, which I believe you will receive, as I have already said, high support. However, it seems to me, once again, illogical that only one such transition would be closed in Škofja Loka on Trata, because there are many such cases and there is certainly a need for residents, pedestrians, cyclists and passenger vehicles to ensure that this transition continues to be used while ensuring that the rail crossing is ensured as soon as possible by out-of-military crossing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As a last word to you, Mrs Natasa Sukič, prepare for Mr Boris Doblekar. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! There's been a lot of talk on this subject today. I'll try to sort out some of the points I want to make. We are talking about a case of an intentional closure of the military transition, a case that should not actually be. It should not be — why? Because of various questions or problems that we are witnessing to them. The safety of yes, of course, even in the face of horrifying statistics, if we think that there have been 819 accidents at the level crossings of the road since 1995 that required 176 victims and 370 wounded. I'm talking about the whole country or all of these crossings across our rail network. But what happens in the case of Trat? I've already made it very clear in my position today, and my colleagues have repeatedly underlined this. First time. Security is sought through a serious discussion with the local community, despite taking into account the opinion of the local community. Worse still, beyond the opinions of the paramedics — those who know exactly what the shorter and longer intervention route means, what the difference of four minutes in intervention for the safety of the countries in general means, perhaps to save the life of someone who needs paramedics, because, I don't know, he may be a victim of cardiac arrest or something like that. Can you imagine? Four minutes is a huge difference in this case, and we have clearly demonstrated and proved it. Of course, security is not only a multi-military transition, it is not only a prison, it is not just a signal, but it also feels like where this transition is, where you put it, and how, of course, you really arrange it to work at a given location. Today, we have also shown that trucks could have peacefully diverted to where all motor traffic should now be diverted, and everything else could have remained calm in this location, where there have been no casualties for years. On the other hand, we have many cases of transitions calling for after the action on behalf of security and for a long time no action is taken. For example, in large urban areas, Ljubljana is already such an example, we have many real tragedies. Only in November, we all know the case of the boy, across the High School Bridge, in Goriška, who probably missed a flashing signal. Apparently, they found headphones and telephones at the scene of the accident, maybe he was listening to music, and he thought of himself as missing the flickering. There hasn't been a prisoner in years. And I think it was, if I saw it correctly, just at this passage of five fatalities, or at least a few fatalities, maybe I won't overdo it, I don't know if it's five. I read it somewhere else. And just now, I think, it's closed, that's where this passage is closed. The municipality of Ljubljana promises an approach. And it hasn't worked out for a long time. I took a little look, according to 2018 data, Slovenia has a thousand 150 kilometres of railway lines, over which it leads 745 level crossings, of which, at least in 2018, it may now be slightly different, 426 unprotected, most on regional and side lines that are not part of the core network. So let's not just talk about the route to Gorenjska, let me give you an example of the Ljubljana–New City–Metlika route. There are 110 unprotected passages, 43 between Trebnji and Sevnica and 34 between Grosuplje and Kočev. And, of course, accidents happen. Today we have touched on a number of issues that relate to this problem. Although Trat’s example may seem a small case to some, it is indeed an example that we can relate to a number of important questions that we have touched in part today. Not only about the culture of drivers in traffic or about safety. They relate to issues of sustainable mobility, to questions about why, for the devil in this country, we do not really focus all our efforts on really speeding up our rail network with everything that belongs to it, it is by approaches, signals, prisons, to take absolutely all aspects of security into account, but not only security, of course, and something else. Let's say we cultivate thinking, mentally shift citizens and citizens into the possibility that rail transport can then also be used, which would be a big step forward in terms of achieving carbon neutrality, which is so much talk about. Not that there is still a lot of focus on motor traffic, but then we have these problems with transitions that are quite, a lot of them are poorly protected and there are tragedies. However, it is important to highlight the dialogue. Civil dialogue with the local community should lead to such measures. Dear Minister, I appeal to you to discuss yourself, perhaps personally or, I don't know, from the Ministry at some appropriate level, with the local community about this particular case and really look on the ground, Micah has shown us nicely how to extend the intervention path, how many minutes this means and what the difference is. But these minutes, of course, can be a huge difference between life and death, either an individual or if there is an explosion, because there is an industrial zone and there is a possibility and there has already been accidents. I would like to conclude here, but I think we would still need discussions in this National Assembly in a broader sense on railways in general with us, on railway infrastructure, about why we are not focusing enough on modernisation. I am also concerned that yesterday we should talk about this Stomlion cartridge just in order to update the route from Ljubljana to Gorenjska, and this has been moved so far. I hope that this does not mean that these 100 million euros will not be found and that what has been announced for 2020 will not be realized. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u33	Your Honor, thank you for your discussion. Mr. Boris Doblekar, you are the last in this circle. Since there's only a few minutes left, I believe there will be a division of votes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u34	President, thank you for your word. I have listened carefully to the discussions which were mostly by the members of the Left, from which he is also the proponent of this debate on the crossing of the railway in Škofja Loka. I have heard quite a few different opinions and suggestions, such as the proposal that this transition to the railway station in Škofja Loka or, in particular, on Trata remain only for pedestrians and cyclists, for which a proposal has also been made and is expected to be accepted or confirmed by the local community together with the Infrastructure of Slovenian Railways and, of course, add its contribution to the regulation of this transition. In fact, if only in such a form this transition would have been necessary, it would have been necessary to create protective mazes to wait before the crossing and then safely cross the railway line. As far as intervention vehicles are concerned. This option, too, would, for example, be acceptable if only for pedestrians and cyclists and even for intervention vehicles. You'll probably talk about it to all the stakeholders. I'm afraid if that were the case, then the freight traffic would be called trucks, and as Ambassador Miha Kordish said, the forklifters, the tractorists, I don't know what's going on there – of course, as soon as possible, everyone will be driving – probably still taking advantage of this transition, even though it would only be allowed for intervention vehicles. As far as intervention vehicles are concerned. When the transition is closed – which I think is quite a bit of a time, given that it is in a fixed area where the movements are also carried out, the mobile composition of the industrial train tracks is called that – it is probably an obstacle to intervention vehicles, that is to say firefighters, paramedics, police, who must necessarily go somewhere. So that they will certainly use this new variant in such a case, is a real road approach under the railway which is, I think, a kilometer away. As far as your view is concerned, some railway crossings are protected only by the Andrej Cross or are not protected by light signals and also by prisoners. Even such transitions are in fact much and still much too much, although I have also heard the idea that it would be good if more were to make transport, especially rail and probably also road traffic, move faster. This is just a matter of safety, safety in rail transport. The train certainly has the advantage, the train does not choose, there is speed, there is weight, the speeds are on such side lines about 60, 70 kilometers per hour, on regional routes up to 160 kilometers per hour, on the Stairway or Ljubljana–Maribor on certain sections, where these turning points must still work well and also be properly set to close the crossing in time with the prisons. A lot of times, for example, a vehicle collides with a prison cell or wants to get through when the prisoners are closing down. This is where security is taken care of. As soon as the prisoner touches the car, it is very weak in a certain location and breaks off. This is not a physical obstacle, which would have come quite often for some of our drivers – that some iron or iron- concrete fence would have fallen down. There is no problem, then we would run into that concrete and not come to the track, but here it is made so that this ramp breaks down very quickly and immediately turns to the passenger or train dispatcher, that the crossing is unprotected, and immediately all security measures are taken to stop the train in time from the prison, if possible. The process is very reliable, perhaps from other times, but obviously there is no other solution. If the train dispatcher gives the order to the driver who drives the train, or when the passenger — everything is connected to each other — he finds that the crossing is not reliable, even if the ramps close normally, but if something shows him that there is a mistake, whatever it is, he gives him a task and then the driver has to stop and know exactly where he is before the crossing. There are kilometres of stones along the track, 100 metres of rock, to know exactly where the driver must then stop at the crossing. And even as the train driver approaches this transition, when he sees that the cars are standing, that the prisoners are closed, that the signalling works, he must stop before this transition. Which is a little illogical – you see that everything counts, it's all closed, because you can see it at 100, 200, 300, 400 meters, depending on visibility, but you have to stop there. Stop before the transition, then once a long blow, write down, so those car drivers look at you strangely, oh, what's going on now, or the driver doesn't see that the crossing is secured. He's got to write it down and then take it away. Everything is recorded on the card or on the tape, so everything is recorded. In any fixed area, if there is such a transition, the train crew on the passenger or freight train shall exit, go to the crossing and take the red flag or at night the signal lamp and stand there and give the signal signs to the driver so that he can safely drive along the track where the road is across the railway. When the train gets across the aisle, it stops again and waits for the train crew to get on the train and move on. In short, such security measures are really being taken here, so that no accident can actually occur. Once again, I will say that there is a very large difference between these crossings in the terminal area itself or in the open-line crossings. In the case of Trata, this transition is in fact even more secure because it is also protected by an import signal, in the event of any malfunction, this import signal falls immediately to the red and the driver must not stop, it must not import into the station under any circumstances. This is also the case in Zasavje, for example, in Kresnica, where there is also this railway crossing, I would say, in the permanent area, near the mainland, between the import signal and the import site. The discomfort of the inhabitants there and of all the drivers who must, in fact, as already Parliamentary Sukičev said, I think – are waiting abnormally long. Because there this transition is linked to import and export signals and it is necessary to wait. Even if there is any damage to the movement, when the blade of the switch does not sit on the track, of course it shows a mistake and the passage is simply closed then and the vehicles are not allowed across. So the railway really cares about the biggest safety card, that is, the safe management of rail transport. In the case of Trata, I cannot say otherwise than that it will actually be necessary to find a common language, all stakeholders, both the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Infrastructure Directorate, the local community, the municipality, the mayor, the mayors, the mayors, the councillors, the civil initiative and the presence of the Slovenian Railway Infrastructure, which is responsible for its infrastructure, will be provided with security in the framework of the money available to them. So you'll find some optimal solution. I believe everyone will be drawn to their end. It is true that some of the desires of landscapers and landscapers, drivers, drivers, economies that are in this place, farmers who have tractors who would also like to come from point A to point B as soon as possible, and something is of course legislation that is very strict and restrictive in this area. I believe, I know that the Ministry will rely on the legislation and these decisions that have been issued. I must say, I'm afraid this transition will soon be closed, unless you find a case of a solution. You may want to draw at least the most urgent part of this transition for at least some users. At the end of the day, maybe that's all. Once again, the call to the Ministry, we now have Minister Alenko Bratušek here in this broader debate to actually approach, to do everything you can to approach the restoration or modernisation of the mountain line completely at a time when the Karavanke tunnel will be closed when freight traffic across the border to Austria and beyond to Europe will not take place in particular. At that time, rail passenger traffic can be carried out by buses. That's not new. In fact, we could have arranged a number of things along this mountain line. Of course, there are different other sections of the line, especially those of the side. Yesterday, I mentioned, Novo mesto, Metlika, Karlovac, that is, if money were to be able to work rationally with money, but if we had enough money to draw on European funds – we know that the problem is that we can get some substantial resources – we could make this railway infrastructure very modern, while we are purchasing new vehicles, new vehicles, so that the rail traffic could then be more used to make trains more full. That's what they say. Trains need to be faster. They're comfortable, but faster. That's the problem. And that, too. Once, when companies gave or paid only a train ticket instead of money, the train was called a train ticket, people used the train more. This was also introduced on the railway. When you get money for travel expenses, then every individual's decision is what I say is right to decide. If you want to be faster, which is essential today, you just go after the car and then you cause traffic and you pollute the environment and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish, the proposaler of Micah Kordish wants the text. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I have spent all my time underlining the point of why this transition should not be closed or closed until tomorrow without an appropriate alternative being provided first. The process of closing this transition is also problematic: completely without any dialogue, top-down. The bureaucrats remembered and stuck themselves in this transition, and now we're going to close it down, and they're going to lock it down regardless of all the protests, calls, interventions, requests for talks that came from the local community. In fact, there is no dialogue regarding the process of closing this transition and there is no dialogue. And it's against the Municipality of Škofja Loka, against the National Community of Trata, against the local firefighters, they're free, there's practically no man in the local community, whose life touches this transition against being shut down. It doesn't matter what political party it comes from. I'll tell you, our mayor is from a non-participating list, our deputy is from the SDS, the main activist from Trata Regional Community, who organized the National Assembly and also the petition, comes from the SMC and so on, I'm from the Left. We're all against the fact that it's going and it's just like this transition is closing. On the other hand, we have a bureaucratic apparatus, which, for no good reason, simply decided that he doesn't like something here, he doesn't even know what it is, except that this is something in conflict with the rule and the law, which is why security is at stake, and now I want this door-to-mouth, with my head through the wall closed. On 19 October, the above-mentioned assembly of nationals took place. From the note or minutes of this Congregation of Landscapes, the final decision or last paragraph in this note is: “The debate has shown that no consensus can be reached at this point. Representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Slovenian Railways insist on closing with arguments of the signed protocol and security. The locals, the municipality and the KS are opposed to closing with arguments that there is a significant deterioration in traffic accessibility, that there is no improvement in safety, and in particular that the promised alternative transition has not yet been realized. As a result of this, it is not possible to consent to the implementation of the envisaged closure.” In short, not only is the matter substantively such that it does not drink water, but a step forward would be to trigger any serious conversation here that is not a bureaucratic command, what and how it will happen. I had little hope that today’s meeting would not pull off – here, now we have been here for two hours and 15 minutes – because the representatives of our Municipality of Škofja Loka and some representatives of the Slovenian Railways have returned to the location last week. I haven't been able to get any notes yet, which is why I haven't mentioned it yet, and I had little hope that the Minister would say it on her own. In short, they met again at the site, and it was supposed to be said that this transition might not be closed. I can't tell you exactly what and how, again, I haven't gotten the memo yet. But I'd be very happy if that were the case. And if that's true, I'd be happy if you could confirm that, Mrs. Alenka Bratusek, as a referee minister. If you confirm, then my next question – if we did so in our position, we would have concluded today’s meeting. On a substantive level. The transition must remain open to the point of providing an alternative to the undercarriage. This alternative should be placed in the context of the upgrading of the railway line, since it is not currently envisaged, only the out-of-line crossing for pedestrians and cyclists, but not for cars, is envisaged. Finally, where immediate action is needed, it is necessary that the freight transport, which, despite the construction of the industrial undercarriage, is still passing through the Trat railway crossing and is snorkeling past the village, past the country’s houses, is transferred altogether to the industrial undercarriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will give the floor to the Minister and the proposer. First she gets the word Minister Mag. Alenka Bratusek, who doesn't want to answer. I also give the floor to my proposaler, Micha Kordiš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, chairman. I mentioned the argument, even repeated it several times, I hoped for more response by the representatives of the Ministry of Infrastructure, especially by Mrs Alenka Bratušek, and apart from the introductory position there was no controversy at all. I feel kind of like the way the local Trate and the employees in Knauf feel when they came from the Ministry and told them they'd close the gate, and that's it. Despite all the letters and calls of any serious dialogue. The assembly of the locals, which was organised, was organised by representatives of the Ministry and the Slovenian Railways, who said so. We didn't really talk there, I was involved, but there was no serious discussion. If I am correctly reading the political will and situation at this meeting, it seems that there is no other than to make a political problem from one railway crossing, for political reasons other than for valid, reasoned professional reasons and for security reasons, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Slovenian Railways will not be paid off. It is simply at this point the only way I see it is that I think it would be much more useful, much better if, with the local community and the local drivers of the closure of this transition on Slovenian railways, the Ministry of Infrastructure finally entered into an honest dialogue, but at least until the end of this dialogue, if not further, the moratoriums should not apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-12-20-SDZ8-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. There is no wish to debate, so I am concluding the debate. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 14th meeting of the National Assembly. I want a nice holiday for everyone. Good-bye!
