ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the ninth meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič, Matjaž Nemec, Marijan Pojbič, Ferenc Horváth, Yuri Leup, Natasa Sukić, Violeta Tomić, Felice Žiža, Victory Jelinčič Nobility and Lidija Divac Mirnik from 2 p.m. I have invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, the Ombudsman of Peter Svetino to the 13th and 14th agendas, the representative of the State Election Commission, the representative of the Council of Justice, the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic and the candidate for the Constitutional Court of Justice, Dr Roc Čeferin, to the 16th agenda item and the representatives of the Government to all agenda items. Once again, my respects and respects, a lovely greeting! We are moving on to the agenda of the 9th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 7 June 2019, with reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the items from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The Government proposes that the agenda of the 9th session be extended by the following point: Proposal for an Act on the Inventory of Species of Brown Bear (Ursus arctos) and Wolf (Canis lupus) from Nature (ZIOMVN), urgent procedure. The proposal for enlargement was received by means of a proposal for a law on Wednesday 12 June 2019. Does the representative of the Government want to explain the proposal for enlargement? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we propose the examination and adoption of the Law on the Inventory of Stocks of Brown Bears and Wolfs of Nature as a matter of urgency, since it is necessary to adopt the law in order to avoid the difficult remedial effects that arise from citizens. The Law on the Interventional Seizure of Species of Brown Bear and Nature Wolf was prepared due to the consequences arising from the judicial detention of the shell for the purpose of managing the population, resulting in an increase in the density of both species, both brown bear and wolf, to the extent that these animals have changed their behaviour over the last period, which poses a direct threat to the inhabitants and their property. Species are in favourable condition and the population growth trend has been pronounced in recent years. Today's situation can no longer be solved only by exceptional shootings after decisions, because these shots do not sufficiently affect the regulation of the high density of populations. The fact is, unless a large population density is immediately managed, they will continue to grow and very likely to cause increasing damage in settlements as well. With constant contact with humans, great beasts can be used to people in relatively short periods of time and people who do not perceive the shooting more than a threat, they also appear more and more in settlements and areas where food is the easiest to reach. In such a situation, there is a very high real fear of animal attacks on humans. For this reason, we propose the adoption of the law by emergency procedure and the extension of the meeting of the national assembly to deal with this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for your explanation. Would you like to speak to the representatives of the parliamentary groups? No, no, no. Thank you. This concludes my presentation of the views on the proposal for enlargement and brings us to a decision. Members and Members shall be free to check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. I'm breaking up. Please check your cards again. Is it working now? Yeah. We vote on extending the agenda of the 9th regular session. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 69 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will treat this as 1.A point on Thursday, 20 June 2019. With this we are going, honourable Members and honourable Members, to set the agenda in full. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda which you have received by reference and with the addition adopted. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 4. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the agenda for the 9th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received in writing 53 questions from the Member States within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the arrangements of the leaders of the groups of Members of the Council of 13 November 2018. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition, the question asked by the Ambassador of the Left Group and the question posed by the ruling coalition Member will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government shall respond to questions within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, they all have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for a substantive debate on questions. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government shall provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point they apologized for today: Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr Miro Cerar; Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Kseniya Klampfer and Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrei Bertonzel. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. Mr Marjan Sarec will answer the first five questions. Mr Blaž Pavlin will be the first to ask him the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u4	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Minister of your Government, Minister of Education, Science and Sport on the back of parents and their children involved in non-governmental primary schools and kindergartens, plays all the principles of the rule of law. In New Slovenia, we believe that the amendment to the law on the organisation and financing of education and education adopted by the Government on 6 June is based on a decision of the Constitutional Court, as the proposal does not provide for the same funding for all public programmes in primary schools. The proposed amendment creates a new unconstitutionality. In addition, a public debate on amendments to the kindergarten law was concluded last week. Both marriages cause unrest and resentment among parents and their children who attend these primary schools and kindergartens. They wonder what they deserve to be treated like that. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you: What will you do to protect this minority in our country, which has been violated for years? How will you make sure that the Constitutional Court's decision on equal financing of all public primary school programmes is implemented as soon as possible without tampering? How will you ensure that these children and parents are compensated for all material damage due to a year of persistent violation of the Constitution due to failure to comply with the Constitutional Court decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u5	Thank you for asking. Mr. Prime Minister, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u6	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. First of all, let me remind you of some facts, namely the facts set out in the Constitution, the Basic School Act and the last decision of the Constitutional Court, which, under the assurances of Minister Jernej Pikal, has been consistently implemented by the proposed amendment to the law. However, public primary schools are obliged to provide the law with both a compulsory and an extended programme and, among other things, 18 compulsory subjects are legally ordered. On the contrary, private primary schools establish the programme by means of their acts. They are obliged to provide instruction from only nine compulsory subjects and an extended programme for them, even though it is largely provided, is not mandatory. The law doesn't oblige them to do that either. Why am I exposing these differences between the mandatory and the extended programme? Because the word “compulsory” is also based on the decision of the Constitutional Court. To avoid the obvious, I will rely on the writings of the Constitutional Judges. For example, point 20, I quote: "The primary education required for pupils must be financed from public funds." [[…]] End of story. I stress that “which is compulsory for students”. And a few sentences continue to be the same as the 20th point of the decision, I state: “The second paragraph of Article 57 of the Constitution therefore grants students the right to visit the compulsory public programme free of charge.” End of story. Again, I stress the word “mandatory”. In short, there is no mention of the extended programme in the decision of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Decision refers to a mandatory programme, not an extended one. The mandatory programme will also be funded by a hundred percent in private schools, a marriage novelty prepared by Minister Jernej Pikalo. Just like in public. The legal position of the initiators of the constitutional judgment will not deteriorate. The novelty provides for an appropriate transitional period. The proposal for a law on the organisation and financing of education and education is now in the parliamentary process and, of course, you will also have a general debate. Amendments are always possible. The current version of the text is probably not complete. The Minister shall ensure that this bill follows a constitutional decision. If anything shows up during the debate, it is always possible. It should be recalled, however, that another constitutional court has made an exact diametric opposite judgment. I repeat, the debate will be held and the Minister will ensure that this is in line. But if an amendment is accepted, it will be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Member, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u8	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! I conclude that you are familiar with the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on legislation on the organisation and financing of education and education, published on 22 May 2019, which warns, inter alia: "In relation to the proposed third paragraph of the amended Article 86 of the Act, we would point out that the initiators who have succeeded in the previous initiative will be given the proposed arrangement for the financing of private primary schools in a worse legal situation than they are in accordance with the applicable regulation for which they have submitted the initiative to the Constitutional Court." It also has doubts as to the proposed fifth paragraph of Article 86 of the Act, which provides that private schools, other than primary schools, are provided with 85% of the funding provided by the State or the local community for the implementation of the public school programme. Such an arrangement places private schools in an uneven position and there is no legally justified reason to do so. They also stated that although the State also provides for further education, only primary education is provided in the Constitution, it is compulsory and financed by public funds, which is an argument in favour of the fact that private primary education cannot be financed to a lesser extent. How could you so clearly overlook the opinion of your legislative service in the process of addressing the bill in the Government? But if you haven't missed it, why have you ignored it and adopted it in government?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u10	As I said, the Ministry ensures that this bill implements a constitutional decision. It also responds to the fact that the idea of this point is on the ground, but this law focuses only on the financing of private primary schools, because these were the subject of an assessment. That's the Ministry's argument. Once again, however, it is possible to table an amendment and there is something else that can be changed in the course of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Members, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u12	Dear Prime Minister, with the adoption of the new ZOFVI in the Government, you have taken on a great deal of responsibility for all the consequences of this act. Parents are outraged that such an attack on the rule of law and such an attempt to discriminate against a minority may take place in the 21st century in the middle of Europe. Instead of bringing together measures to strengthen civil society for greater tolerance and respect in our society, children involved in non-governmental primary schools and their parents being brutally attacked by the authorities. As if this is not enough, a change to the Kindergarten Act is announced, which will be a new blow to children and parents. Children need love, peace and an inclusive environment. We are therefore working hard for their parents, and we rightly expect support from the country. Tired of all the burdens of working and family life, parents still have to fight the country. Dear President, children also ask you, "I will still be able to attend this school next year, and I will still be able to attend this kindergarten." Since the children are the greatest wealth and future of Slovenia, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to my question of correspondence.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your procedural proposal tomorrow, 18 June, in the framework of the votes. This brings us to a second question. You have the floor, Mr. Dusan Shisko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u14	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia we built the first power plant on Drava 100 years ago. In Posavje, where I come from, unfortunately, it was not until the end of the 20th century that the first power plant on the lower Sava near Vrhove was built. After the adoption of the Law on Lower Sava in 2000, there were also hydroelectric plants Boštanj, Blanca, Krško and Brežice. In HESS, preparations for the construction of HE Mokrice, which is the last in the planned chain, were completed last year. In addition to electricity throughout the country, it also gives people around the Sava more protection from floods, helping to improve infrastructure, develop agriculture, tourism and the economy in general. However, just before the construction began, a small, six-member NGO, the Fish Watch Association, with a complaint to the Administrative Court as a party to the proceedings, practically stopped a project worth almost EUR 200 million. On the one hand, we are full of words about renewable energy sources and the fight against climate change, and on the other we allow small groups, for vague reasons, to stop development and environmentalally important projects under the cover of nature protection. Obviously, the State has made a mistake by allowing any group that has a public interest status to participate in the proceedings by actually acting against the general interest. Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I ask: How long will the environmental and other non-governmental groups be able to stop investments of state importance without taking into account the wider national interests? What and when will you do so that such cases as HE Mokrice will not be repeated?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador! Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your question! Let me start by saying that the question is addressed very correctly and it is not only Mokrice, but it is a broader problem in Slovenia. I will also later get Mr Zorčič's question on the second track, where the situation is very similar. It's true, it's important to protect the environment, it's important to realize that this planet is the only one we have, and we won't have another. On the other hand, it is true that only by stopping every project will we not go far. When I was on the 50th anniversary of the power plant, I specifically said that now is the time to decide whether this time in history will be as perceptive as the time when something happened or the time when nothing happened. And that's a very crucial point. We have recently protected Mura, we have fulfilled what we have promised. But some still don't. Every day I get mail, I get different initiatives: stop this construction, stop that construction, close the TER 6, close the BARK, I don't know what else. And that, I agree, is not the right way. I think that the Ministry of Environment and Space will have to approach the preparation of legislation that will overwind those organisations in the public interest – I stress, in the public interest. Not every NGO is in the public interest. In this way, if every construction starts to stop, we will eventually have to make a decision to return to the caves. And we shall not live by the candles, because this is also harmful, we shall burn the fires, but also the fire shall be contented in the end, because it also emits solid particles and other things. It is therefore necessary to approach this with a considerable measure of reason. Because even those who are the worst environmentalists use mobile phones, they use cars, they use anything else that modern technology takes over. And it all works directly or indirectly on electricity. If we don't have clear concepts of where we're going to get this energy, and even if we're trying to reduce energy consumption, we certainly have to work on it, but if we're going to approach it hecticly, because today it's a trend that every environmentalist is, if he is, or if he isn't, then he can write us badly. Let me pull it up. It is necessary to protect the environment, not to act like the previous generations, when they've spent about, I don't know, five or ten generations of what is available to us today, but on the other hand without energy sources, we're really going to end up like this, this weekend there was an interview when the director, I think HESS, said that then the alternative is to drive the dynamo in the basement. So, a healthy measure of reason and, above all, understanding one another. We always go from one extreme to the other. At times, we have not protected the environment, but today we are protecting it so much, in sayings that we are blocking ourselves in many projects. If we don't want any energy sources, let's say what we want, and we'll approach it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u18	Dear President, I hope your predictions come true. I still remember well in 1990, when my town of Krško, in fact its old historical core, was swimming on the water and when firefighters and citizens themselves made great efforts to save what was possible. I am not against those who seek to preserve the natural environment, but to advertise now that the power plant chain at the bottom of the Sava is at its end, it is not variable, and it is because of one fish itself. About how many people won't have a job, how many experts don't know what's going to happen, or whether they should go to work abroad, I didn't even talk. Does anyone wonder how much it costs us to lose electricity that we will have to import or gain in a more dirty way? President-in-Office: How and when will you ensure that the citizens of Slovenia and especially the inhabitants of the Sava River will not be victims of small groups and interests that are very likely behind them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u20	The latest developments are that the court has brought the matter back to the ARS. That's how the procedure goes again. But as I said, our legislation is so cloudy on certain matters that everything actually lasts a very long time. That is why I stress once again – yes, we have protected Mura and we will protect something else, but everywhere in Europe we can have windmills, but birds are different, and apparently they can't fly these windmills, and butterflies can have all kinds. With all due respect to nature, but I'm sure that's not the way to go. I expect that this is an over-breeding of legislation, because I repeat: we will need energy sources in the future. Not to be the same as in Germany, which decided quickly to shut down all nuclear power plants, but now the consequences are showing that this was a quick decision, because electricity will have to be obtained somewhere and, of course, in the cleanest way. But the question is whether those who block everything stop everything, realize what it means. But maybe in a week we could take everyone's electricity all over Slovenia, and then maybe someone would think about what life would be like. And once again, I'm not opposed to environmental protection, not at all, just not by exaggeration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u22	Thank you. Citizens find it difficult to understand that, for example, developed countries such as Denmark have almost half of the electricity produced from wind power plants, and we cannot place them within a few decades even as many fingers as we have on our hands. Austria has 30 power stations on Mura, and we don't even allow serious planning. We'd rather burn import coal and pollute Slovenia. We have missed a lot in this project of the century for our region, including the possibility of ensuring navigation along the Sava River, but we must not allow ourselves to stop what we have achieved with great anguish already. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, this is a serious problem which, in our view, is causing great damage, as such conditions hinder the faster development of the country. In accordance with Article 246 I request a general debate in the National Assembly, because we know what was going on in Magna not long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your motion tomorrow as part of the vote. And now you have the word of Dr. Ange Logar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u24	Thank you, President. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, after some broadcast on RTV Slovenia, which was just accidentally released two weeks before deciding to sell A Bank, you made contact with your only banking-economic message on your Twitter profile. You wrote down, quote: “As seen yesterday in the bank recovery broadcast, SDH should give careful consideration to the continuation of A bank sales. In particular to non-questionable funds.’ The next one is really clear. I want to know: In addition to public pressure on the SDH supervisory board, has any non-public, secret matter been carried out? I read that in your government there are fashion pressures from different men in black, what owls, and what intelligence and security services. I want a very specific answer. In particular, you point out that the banks should not, in particular, sell to questionable funds. Two Hungarian OTPs and the Apollo Fund are competing for the Bank. This is the fund that Cerar's government sold him to NKBM. So there's only one fund. Are you saying, Sir, that the Apollo Fund is a questionable fund? Are you thus directing SDH supervisors to exclude one of the tenderers from the sales process? I also want a very concrete answer here. Why do I ask that? You have announced your public pressure on SDH under the pretext of some of the alleged new facts in the Brezno show, which in its essence distorts the truth about the bank hole. In the mandate of this government, you have not even blinked your finger to speed up the prosecution of banking crime or to improve the conditions of banking crime. On page 25 of your coalition treaty entitled Combating Economic Crime and Corruption, I quote: "For greater efficiency in the prosecution of economic and banking crime and corruption, we will analyse the work of the specialised departments of the courts and prosecutors so far and adopt appropriate adjustments." Boom. Then you name Harry Furlan as the Attorney General. A person who is practically most responsible for the fact that nothing has happened in this country in the pursuit of banking crime. Now, my question: Was the appointment of Furlan to the Government meant as a reward for work or work as part of your joint efforts to review the truth about the bank hole, the Czech, the bank holes were not at all, they forced us from Brussels for miscalculations, or did you consistently fulfill the commitment under the previously mentioned coalition agreement, analyzed the work of SDT so far and found that Harij Furlan was the biggest obstacle to a more effective prosecution of banking crime and withdrew it by raising it up? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr Logar, for that question. If we start with secrecy. I don't pressure anyone. If I tweeted, it was all more than a secret. I do not use practices like this during your government, when Director Kovacič, NKBM, or your President, reported to you on a client's email exactly how this is happening, and various cow deals with Mercator and such matters. I think it was a lot more secret out there. As far as the various funds are concerned, I have in mind, above all, general practice when it was sold to the funds. Adria Airways sold out the warehouse, and we see where we are. As far as the pressure is concerned, I'm sure they're gone. SDH is an autonomous body, and I don't know how much more money they have in SDH than I do. If I have 3,000 300 nets, like I get out, they definitely get them, I don't know, 11 gross I think it is, but count. So I believe that they are able to make their own decisions in this country without being ultimately responsible for everyone else. But as for the various, I don't know, you expect me to personally prosecute criminals or so-called bankers, as you wrote on your profile. Even in your mandate, plus the one-year leadership of this government, there was a lot going on when you wanted to make up for what you had previously failed for so many years. Our client is now almost a year in this state policy, so I don't have to be asked about it. But you can ask yourself, because even if we were in government with you, it wouldn't be any different. You're an old client, too, and after all, you have the only party president who's been directly in the Communist Union. No other party, even the SD doesn't have it anymore. I don't have to be accused of some old practice. You also had an investigative committee on banks. You said you were there, I don't know what you found out, but that was more of a political hearing than anything else. Yeah, I want this cleared up, too. There were many, many grandmothers in this banking Slovenian system who then brought this weighty child and the problems we have today into the world. It started a long time ago, it also started under the 12-year rule of the LDS, and certainly, even then, the acquisitions started to take place, indeed more successful than in 2008, when they bought shares with expensive loans, and then they were worthless overnight. Some friends of your president's, some of your teammates, and so on. In short, you're not pointing the right way. I'll be most pleased if everything clears up what happened in the past. We also have an investigation committee on DUTB. I'm happy to see those results. As for Abanka, however, I have every right to express any thought. It's probably some big story. And the prosecution is a new fact to me, because I've never seen it before. There are certain things written in the complaint, and everything couldn't have been all right. I am not saying that there was no bank hole, but the question is whether it was properly assessed. That's a big question. Of course, today is the situation. Today it's hard for me to talk back because I wasn't even on one thing. However, a bad bank was established, as your client and your people were mentioned in the documentary. You were all there in one way or another. I wasn't the only one there. That I'm going to be personally hunting so-called bankers now?Oh, my God! I expect the relevant authorities to do their part. I have expectations, and I hope so.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u27	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Member, would you like a supplement?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u28	Thank you, President. I don't know if his Prime Minister listened to me or anyone else, but he didn't answer my question at all. As I understand it in the whole part, he's not pressing secretly, he's pushing only publicly. That is probably why SDH moved today’s meeting of the Supervisory Board from 2 p.m. to 2 p.m., as these public pressures continue. About the bank hole, Mr President of the Government, you have a very determined position. Very determined. At a press conference ten days ago, you said exactly this, quote: “We know for a while that this bank hole has been estimated at too much.” That's not a condition statement. This is a very determined statement that leaves no doubt. Given the fact that the President of the Government, who has access to various sources, including secret sources of data, has said that it is therefore necessary to explain. That's why I'm asking: On what grounds do you claim that the bank hole was overestimated? I want a very specific answer. Even the one you've known since. Don't suspect. Since when do you know that? And don't look for excuses in some famous pain study. You know, as long as someone has a well-paid contract with Banka Slovenije, stamps the same horn with Governor Kranjec, when the next governor terminates this contract, everything is wrong with Banka Slovenije. Which proven or legally binding document gives you the power to make such an explicitly determined statement? The basic calculation of the bank hole, as we know, was prepared by the government of Alenka Bratušek. The State Aid Memorandum was prescribed either by Alenka Bratušek or Karel Erjavec as foreign minister. It's still a secret for me. Nobody wants to say it. I don't know why. Colleague Alenka Bratušek said at the hearing before the commission of inquiry that she didn't remember. It's a win-win answer. And here's what I'm going to ask you: How can you have two ministers in the government who, according to you, have explicitly accepted such conditions that the bank hole has been overestimated? Did you at least have a conversation with him?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u30	Thank you. How can you have a party president who can't explain 200,000 euros in assets? Even the government fell for it. That way I can ask you back if you want. We know what was going on. As far as the police are concerned [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] How? We respect the courts [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the National Assembly, allow the President of the Government to respond to the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u32	Yeah, yeah, I'll fight my word, nothing to be afraid of, 'cause we're used to it. Police since 2013 [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u33	We're here to protect you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u34	implements banking crime measures as a matter of priority. [[…]] During this time, the police filed 172 criminal charges with the State Prosecutor's Office, and at this time, 16 cases of banking crime are still being dealt with. So the police work. As for the fact that the hole was estimated to be too much, we can also see from the complaint itself that the methodology was wrong. It is true that this methodology was covered by the then government. That's right. But surely there are such and different indications that everything was not exactly as it should have been. The fact that you're asking me, how do I know, is that today I think it's clear to every citizen that it wasn't everything, especially after everything we've seen. These questions of yours aren't exactly in place right now. But as for Harry Furlan, I don't know him personally, I never even talked to him, so I certainly don't mean to pressure anyone or do anything else. As for the conversion of words, you're already very well-dressed. And that's your policy for years, starting with those liquidations, the discredits, and I don't know what. In my home too, your media has consistently claimed that the fence is higher, and it has not even looked at the right side, but it is persistent when people continue to count how many there are, they have just claimed their own. It's about the same thing. Your conversion of words has long been known. I believe your commission has discovered a great deal to help solve these problems. However, your government has also contributed much to the state of the country, although it has not really been as long as the LDS and any other government. I agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u35	Thank you for your answer, Mr. President of the Government. Mr. Members, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u36	I don't feel challenged, but I feel sorry. In his reply, the Prime Minister compared a five billion-dollar bank hole to a wall in his wall. Look how sad that is. What we've all paid out of our account is banalized to the height of its fence. Sorry, this is not part of the debate in the National Assembly, but not at all at the time of the debate, the parliamentary issue, President of the Government. No, Prime Minister, you can't ask me back. We could if we were in a reverse role, but we weren't. The Members' questions are intended to ask the President of the Government and the President of the Government for answers. But not that there is a known issue: my father is stronger than yours. Like they used to go to kindergarten. This is the level of debate that you have now had in this response. I've quoted only your statements. The statements of the Prime Minister have power. They may distort markets, may affect the rating of countries, may affect the sale or non-sale of a state-owned undertaking. You did it with your statements. In your statements, you also said that the bank hole was overrated. Dear Prime Minister, I advise you to read once again the Constitutional Court's constitutional decision on qualified securities. In point 124, to make it easier for you, it is precisely stated that in an administrative dispute, the court will decide whether or not the bank hole has been properly assessed. And that'll be the only legal evidence. And you, now, five or ten years before this happens, are already publicly misleading Slovenian taxpayers, that was the case, so that you can pull out another set, that is, we will not sell the Bank. Finally, we will, because the European Commission will demand this, but the damage will be measured in an additional half billion. That's what I'm telling you right now. As is the fault of Cerarje's government, which stopped the sale of the New Credit Bank Maribor. The honourable President of the National Assembly, because I have not received an answer, I would like to vote on this parliamentary question and hold a debate in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u37	The honourable Member, as you wish, will vote on the issues tomorrow. You have the floor, Mr. Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! I'm going to ask you a question about housing policy or transferring apartments from a bad bank to a housing fund. As far as housing policy is concerned, I think that the picture in Slovenia could not be clearer. This country has not had housing policies for a quarter of a century and the generations that are coming are increasingly under the burden of this state's inactivity in this area. The problems are known. In Ljubljana, if you go look, it costs just over 60 square meters of apartment 290,000 euros today. Not much better on the coast, 70 square feet costs 240 thousand euros in Koper. If you are two young people with average Slovenian wages or less, two thirds of people are less than the average wage, they want to afford it, they literally have to be in charge for even an active life period, it is said for about 30 years, and pay off expensive credit just to get to a small apartment. It should not surprise us, therefore, that we are reading about increasing migration abroad, 8 thousand a year to read about how the Finances wrote a while ago that almost every other young Slovenian by the age of 35 lives with his parents. And the reason is that he can't afford to have another life. Or, according to housing funds, they manage to accommodate only a dozen eligible applicants for rent there. In short, we have a big problem. I think we agree on that. Even if we go to look at the coalition contract, things are very clear, talking about 10,000 new rentals, talking about the regulation of housing law and society, our last agreement with the government on the transfer from the DUTB to the housing fund, from the bad bank to the housing fund. In a bad bank, there are quite a few properties and apartments that are directly suitable for us to start putting this policy on our feet. However, the problem is that such things are always a matter of interest. Here we have come under a particular interest, this is the interest of a bad bank or its management and liquidity. What interests me, Mr. President of the Government, is: Why in this dilemma, where you have to choose between the young people who need these apartments and the balance sheet of the bad bank that you want to improve by selling these apartments, you choose a bad bank and not the future of young people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u39	We have a procedural question. Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. After the discussion and questions have been concluded, I wanted to draw the attention of the President of the Government and you, as President, to remind the President of the Government, who is the guest in this house, that for the second or even third time he has not answered the questions and is essentially avoiding the answers. I would also point out that, in the case of a bank hole, it is not a fence, it is an invention, but a naked fact that has been adopted in the National Assembly virtually in the previous term. Complaints were made directly by the Head of the NPU, Mr Harij Furlan, who is now appointed Attorney General of State. It is unacceptable to me that this is how attention is diverted into such an important matter where we all know that practically nothing is happening in this investigation. This issue was definitely on the spot also because of all your statements at the press conferences. We do not want the banking situation in this country to worsen with such inappropriate debates, which they also listen to in the public eye. I therefore remind or ask the President to warn the President of the Government that questions raised by Members should be answered in the National Assembly. That is also what this instrument is designed for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u41	Your Honour, you have made a procedural proposal, which has already been put forward in some way by your predecessor and we are voting on this proposal tomorrow. I would therefore not like such procedural proposals to be repeated. We have another procedural proposal. Mr. Ducky, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u42	Thank you. I have to take this. You reached out to Luke Mescu, although it was previously announced procedurally. Another time. The head of the parliamentary group has misused the procedural proposal. Stick to the rules of procedure and do not abuse it in a political battle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u43	If we continue to do so, we can have procedural proposals all day. And that's not how we're going to proceed. This will continue our normal session. Mr. Prime Minister, your word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I'll act as a guest next time, but, you know, answering something that offends you is nothing uncultured. I'm gonna stop saying there's gonna be something wrong. Your Honor, thank you for your question. It is good that we have also opened up this subject that we have agreed to resolve together, and it is part of the agreement. Actually, it's the same goal. However, if you ask me why it is the way it is, and that it cannot be free, it is because of legislation, which is in breach of the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. On the one hand, we have a housing fund that, as a national housing policy provider, takes care of a balanced supply and facilitates access to these dwellings. On the other hand, we have DUTB, which has to provide the highest possible return for the state and taxpayers for the seized property. This is a DUTB mission. Therefore, the free transfer of assets would be contrary to the law in force. DUTB must ensure economic use, act as a good host and be defined as an economic company. If DUTB did not carry out its task in a profitable manner, damage would be done again to taxpayers, which is not in accordance with the law and the law does not allow the DUTB public law entity, such as the housing fund, to conclude a free legal transaction. The law requires the opposite. The DUB must act profitably, but the end goal will be the same. Housing will be transferred, or real estate, even what is not yet built, and we will eventually reach the same goal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Member, please, you have a chance to complete this.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u46	Thank you. The target is not the same. Why do I ask you that? The bad bank currently has over 100 different properties, lands, apartments. We initially suggested that all of this should be transferred to the housing fund and that the housing fund should sell it, and that it would be given the means to build it. If we're gonna get to 10,000 flats, we're gonna have to get him stronger. That didn't go through, and that's why we came up with a compromise. We've proposed what he wants directly from the housing fund, 17 locations. Nor did this go through, and now we are at three locations proposed by the Government. So, only 3 out of 100 will be transferred. The target is not exactly the same. Another time. Your legal reservations are met by our proposal for a law that we have proposed on Friday as an alternative to your decision, which we believe is illegal. There's a response to everything you're referring to. So we can handle this legally, you'll have to show your will on the government's side. Third time. I think we need to somehow take a little wider picture of what the DUTB is and why it doesn't want to give these properties. It is an economic company, as you say, but an economic company, which, as the Court of Auditors found last year, operates ineffectively, uneconomically and untransparently. It works by initially selling out everything that was worth it. The photo was sold for €18 million; it was sold for €80 million; Helios was sold for €145 million; it was sold for €572 million. And where's DUTB today? There are 700 million liabilities, only 150 million more capital, and now there will be 143 employees, as many as there are in Spain, with only 100 more, and 40 times more assets, those employees who spend 10 million a year on their salaries will try to improve their balance sheets by the end of their existence in 2022 by selling the apartments they should or could put into use. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President of the Government, you have the opportunity to respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u48	Thank you. Here I also have some properties that the Housing Fund has identified as suitable. Most suitable: Podutik Glinke, Ljubljana; Brod Drage Novo mesto; Pink Valley, Nova Gorica. These are the most appropriate. Then, secondly, suitable: Parmova, Ljubljana; Vrhnika; Rožna dolina, Ljubljana, Podutik, kamenolom, Ljubljana, Zgornje Gameljne, for Rašica factory, and Šmarje pri Kopru. These were, in the view of the Fund, the most appropriate. It is agreed that the Ministry of Environment and Space, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, will draw further conclusions justifying the need to increase the intended assets of the Housing Fund. What you're saying is back, about Helios and other things, I can't judge because it happened a long time ago. I can agree with you that this has been rude, but we can't do this again today. DutB, however, is forced to act as an economic society. This is what law and legislation says we must respect. There's no other way. You can put some cases elsewhere, but our legislation is the way it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. You have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u50	Thank you. First. I can't agree with you. We write laws in this house. The law that you state has been duly corrected. You have a proposal submitted to the National Assembly that responds to all these findings and allows the transfer of all locations that housing funds could use to provide housing. Second. When you say we can't go back to the helios, futons and the like, and the operation of a bad bank, I agree with that in part. It's true, we can't make these mistakes back. The problem we have today is this: the bad bank will operate for another two and a half years, until the end of 2022. What they're doing now is, instead of giving up these properties to the housing funds, they want to sell them as much as possible so that they can patch up the hole they created with those sales earlier. In the end, the country will still – hold me to the floor – fall between 400 million and 500 million debt when the bad bank closes because it has been operating so uneconomically so far. And now it's just a question of whether or not we're going to be building apartments with this work, say Parmova is one such case, and then you have 14 other locations all over Slovenia, not just in Ljubljana, where we have to decide whether we're going to use these plots for dedicated housing, it's said that public rental apartments are being built there, or whether we're going to let bad banks sell them to a private person who won't make affordable apartments there, but will probably build some commercially more interesting things – Airbnb, hotel, market rent and so on. If I use a paraphrasing, if we're going to let the DUTB company, say let the farmer sell this field to someone who wants to do parking there, then we won't be able to get angry in a few years, why we didn't plant corn there. I propose that we hold a general debate on this in the National Assembly, which would also extend to the business model of a bad bank over the next two years. It was precisely because of this case that I went to re-examine it and I am sure that we should actually close this institution prematurely, because in the next two and a half years, it does virtually nothing but expensive real estate sales, which could have significantly better public use in housing funds and so on. At least one year after the latest reports, which is still missing, he still spends ten million euros on employees' salaries, which is more than the value of these three housing locations the government intends to bring to the housing fund. So you'll take less than they spend a year on wages.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr Member, for your procedural proposal. We are also voting on this proposal tomorrow. You have the floor, Mr. Igor Zorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u52	Dear Prime Minister of the Government, the second track of Divaca-Koper is one of the most important projects, which is key to the economic development of Slovenia. The Slovenian public and the economy have long been aware of this. Unfortunately, the political reality is such that it has been impossible to realize it for many years. The former government moved the project from some dead spot. We came after two unnecessary referendums to a special law dealing with certain project-related issues. We've also reached the building permit, the envisaged financial structures. We are also pleased that this project is a priority for this government. Preparations are in full swing. The government approved the investment programme, signed a concession contract between the Government and 2TKK, and granted a loan to the European Investment Bank. What I want to ask you is this. The former government has advocated financing the project in a way that would minimise the burden of public finances. We have also committed ourselves to this by coalition partners in the current coalition contract or agreement, where we have written down that we will start the process for granting the so-called Junker Fund guarantee. However, it follows from the recent forecasts of the Ministry of Infrastructure that the European Investment Bank’s loan would be secured by a State guarantee, which is a departure from this coalition commitment. According to these predictions, I'm asking you: What are the plans for the financial construction of the second track project, in particular in the work relating to the loan guarantee and the impact on the public debt of the State? The guarantee of the Juncker Fund provided greater control over its implementation, i.e. through the mechanisms of the Juncker Fund itself, which is not available in the case of the State guarantee. Given that we had one project, this is TES 6, in a similar combination of the EIB and the state guarantee, we are of course interested in: How will the Government, in the event of a guarantee, ensure control of this project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your question. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Your findings, of course, hold. These are not just expectations of the public and desires anymore, but they are facts and we have finally moved from words to action. We need a project, we all agree with it, and now it's time to start building it. However, not on the condition that we are saving partial interests and that these partial interests would somehow dictate to us. It is also true that we had referendums and civil initiatives and everything else we can remember. The timing of the delay often substantially undermines the total value of the investment, which is not in anyone's interest. And when it comes to money, it always gets stuck. This is why the Government has recently taken some important measures that have brought us closer to the final conclusion of the financial structure. Let me say, although the second track project of Divac-Koper will not be subject to the instrument of the European Fund for Strategic Investments, this will certainly not jeopardise the financial structure or the implementation itself. The fundamental substantive reason why this project is not eligible for the already mentioned guarantee is the under-representation of a private investor. The European Investment Bank considers this to be a public sector project, as the country's participation in the 2TDK project is high. In the light of the legal arrangements, 2TKK is already included in the state sector, which means that the loan of the company will also be included there. One reason for the inadequacy of the guarantee, which is not essential, is also the non-participation of the Länder in terms of cross-border action. It should be stressed, however, that the signing of an international agreement, which should also be ratified by the National Assembly, is required for the cooperation of the latter countries, and that the approval process itself has been very time-consuming since negotiations with other countries have not even begun. It would also be a guarantee as collateral for this project in the light of the identified management risks that would be very expensive, certainly more expensive than State guarantee insurance. According to the Ministry of Finance, it is therefore now envisaged to secure the European Investment Bank’s loan with State guarantees. This is one of the conditions for this bank to sign and start drawing on the loan. Loans from commercial banks are in the process of obtaining and evaluating bids, but it should be stressed that loans represent less than 40% of the project’s budget value. The project will mainly be financed from European grants and contributions to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a guarantee law is in preparation and will be submitted to the parliamentary procedure in the short term. However, the State guarantee for hire does not affect the state’s public financial position. As Minister Alenka Bratušek points out, the financial structure is thus closed. Regardless of the type of financial resources, however, the project has managed to move from a dead point and physically begins in nature by building accessible routes. I wish we could start building the track itself. However, as far as the hinter countries are concerned, there was no majority in Parliament in the previous term, and I do not think it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. This concludes the first part of today's issues, these are questions for the Prime Minister. I thank you for your answers. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we turn to the questions raised at the 8th meeting of the National Assembly. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandra Pivec, will answer Mr Luka Mesco's question on the transport of animals to Luka Koper. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u56	Dear President, honourable Members, distinguished Mr. Moon! In line with the oral question at the 8th regular session, I would like to give an answer on transport within the port of Koper. Within Luke Koper is a registered point of exit in Slovenia for the export of live animals from the European Union as a whole for the export of bovine animals and poultry. For this purpose, special premises, barns for animals and places for unloading of animals and road vehicles, cleaning sites, disinfection of means of transport, feed warehouses and litter for animals shall be arranged in Luka Koper, and all equipment for loading animals on board vessels shall be provided. All the procedures at the starting point shall be supervised by the official veterinarians of the Food Safety Inspection, Veterinary and Plant Protection Unit operating within the Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Protection Board. Official veterinarians shall be permanently available 24 hours a day for all 7 days a week for this purpose. The substance of the control of the official veterinarians at the point of exit in Luka Koper is animal welfare control and all control procedures are carried out in accordance with Regulation 1/2500 on the protection of animals during transport and related procedures. They shall therefore monitor compliance with the conditions of ships carrying animals, the handling of animals during the interpretation of animals from road transport vehicles, the residence of animals in stables and the loading of animals on board. Particular attention is paid to verifying the data on animal road transport, namely whether the means of transport are approved for the transport of animals, or whether carriers are qualified for the transport of animals, the documentation on how long the animals were on the road, on the rest during the journey, on the temperature of transport and on other important facts for animal welfare. For each animal, the official veterinarian shall assess in advance its ability to continue transporting before embarking on board. Any irregularities identified regarding means of transport, documentation concerning dead and killed animals shall be communicated by the official veterinarians to the places of origin of the consignments through the TRACES information system and through national contact points. However, if the ships do not comply with the conditions laid down, the loading of animals shall not be permitted and the country which approved the vessel for the transport of live animals shall also be informed. Slovenia, as one of the first Member States, has already rejected the loading of animals on board in April 2018. The vessel was temporarily withdrawn from the certificate of suitability of the vessel for the transport of animals and notified France of the authorisation holder for the vessel which also permanently withdrew the certificate for the transport of animals. The work of the official veterinarians in Luka Koper on animal welfare control was also examined by the European Commission inspection in 2018. The minor irregularities identified in this regard were resolved and subsequently verified by the Commission in May 2019 and found that they had been resolved. As regards this video, which you are referring to in your question, the mentioned video, published by the Australian NGO, was published in 2018 and talks about the transport of animals across the Indian Ocean to the countries of the Middle East. Neither Australia nor the Middle East have legislation comparable to that in force in the European Union. They also have no developed control over animal transport in the way it is developed in the European Union. From the above facts, the comparison of animal welfare standards between the carriage of animals from Australia across the ocean to the Middle East, when driving lasts for several weeks, with transport from Luke Koper across the Mediterranean Sea in compliance with the European criteria prescribed, is unrealistic. Such comparisons shall not be carried out by non-governmental organisations nor shall they be supervised by European Commission inspectors.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u57	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Member, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u58	Thank you for your answer, but in fact your answer is expected. So, everything is fine, the European Union has high standards, there are no violations. I got a little bit of different information. I read the final report of the audit carried out by the European Commission in Luka Koper between 16 April 2018 and 20 April 2018. That's where she found the following. In the European Union, we have strict regulations and the control of paws. Control is already limping at the port entrance and in road transport. What did they find out there? That most transporters who arrive do not have proper logs of the route and the consequences are also visible in the condition of the animals. Of the cows they brought in in 2017, they were killed on road transport 24 years ago, of the sheep they brought in in 2017, they had already died on road transport 18. So it's already a tax on road transport. Then we get to the ship's transport. There's the problem next. What the European Commission has found is that there have been no real checks on how the ventilation systems work on ships, alarms, lighting and the like. The radiation was assessed subjectively by the inspectors. If they thought it was okay, it was fine, but no one really went to check if it met the standards. And so on. What's going on at sea, nobody knows. These ships travel to Lebanon, Syria, Egypt and so on. What organisations report there is that there are no statistics on how many animals die at sea, with which there is no veterinary care. In fact, the ships that are driving — not only this French problem, but all the 18 that come through Luca Koper — are more or less inappropriate for this activity. That's why I'm asking you to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u59	Madam Minister, the word is yours again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u60	Thank you. I didn't give the answer to the violations. I said that the monitoring was being carried out on a continuous basis, and I also said that certain irregularities identified in the monitoring carried out since April 2018 had been resolved. Thus, the elimination of these irregularities was confirmed in May 2019. As it is said, all controls or standards for the implementation of these checks are laid down in European Regulation 1/2005 of the European Council and shall be referred to by all Member States in accordance with this Regulation. So, of course, Slovenia. Slovenia, as a Member State which must comply with this Regulation, shall exercise this control at the beginning of the journey and shall report and take appropriate action on non-compliance. As far as the number of animals is concerned, statistics record a certain number of euthanised and killed animals, but the fact that the number of these animals falls from year to year. Let's say from 2016 to 2018, if there were 168 dead animals in 2016, statistics fall to 65 by 2018, which also suggests that these controls are regularly carried out and that these standards are also increasing. However, the fact is that this Regulation, which is uniform for all countries within the European Union, is also implemented differently across countries. For this purpose, two working groups have already been set up to specify exactly how individual rules should be implemented. They shall also draw up a network document to be completed by 2019 and shall also include all the rules in national legislation under this provision. By the end of 2019, national legislation also summarises all the provisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u61	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr President, you have the opportunity to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u62	Thank you. My original initiative to the Minister was to ban the shipping of animals because, in my opinion, what I have read so far, I have seen and so on, this barbaric. The minister didn't want this to happen. I therefore propose that we discuss this in the National Assembly. The Minister answered more or less this part of the question of what happens when you enter the port, says Luka Koper, where you have a Slovenian veterinary inspection doing your job. But I repeat, these ships, and this is not just happening on some other side of the world, in the Indian Ocean, they're also sailing through the Mediterranean for 15 days and more. Various control organisations have reported that animals in these transports are under very high stress due to shipping, fatigue, heat shocks, injuries, because they do not have veterinary care, which is not prescribed on these decks, because sick or weakened animals cannot even get aid there. Therefore, in the end, there are not even any statistics on what really happens to them on these trips. I propose that we hold a debate in the National Assembly on this. I think it's completely unnecessary to torture animals that are harmful both to them and to the environment. When we talk about climate change, it must be pointed out that there is a major problem in shipping that we will have to address. For the last time, information came to the public that only one large cruiser would release as many exhaust gases as 22 million cars. And with big cargo ships, it's no different. Why sheep or pregnant calves should be driven from Luke Koper to Egypt, but it is a question that I cannot answer. I think this is completely unnecessary and could simply be banned for the benefit of these animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your procedural proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. We're going back to the Minister's office. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandra Pivec, and the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Simon Zajc, will answer Mr Matjaž Germany's question on the Accumulation Lake Vogršček. Who wants to answer first? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u64	Thank you. I'm gonna go straight across everything where this project is right now. Project documentation is produced and submitted in the PGD phase, which has also been streamlined and validated by the Slovenian Water Directorate. Investment documentation, investment project, is also produced, committed and validated. The investment value of the investment project is at current prices of 10 million 700 VAT. Of this, the ICGP will co-finance an implementation of 3 million 800. The implementation of the project is foreseen for 2019-2021. In the validation process, there is also government material to increase the baseline value of the project, as the project is above 20 % of the originally estimated value based on the resulting investment programme. An application has also been submitted for the acquisition of a building permit on our Ministry. At present, the status of the application is as follows: after completion of the application, the designer obtained a positive opinion from the operators of the economic public infrastructure of Telekom, VO-KA, Elektra and Gas pipelines. The opinion of the ZRSVN is obtained. The role of the project documentation for obtaining the opinion of the Municipality of Nova Gorica is under way. A supplement is under way to obtain the opinion of the Fisheries Institute. And a supplement is in progress to obtain the opinion of the DRSV. The final stage is the preparation of the tendering documentation. On its basis, public works contracts for construction and control will be launched at the end of June, provided that the implementation of the works can be initiated after the legal capacity of the building permit. If the contract is successful, without any complaints against the selected contractor, the construction is expected to start in autumn 2019, i.e. this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u65	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Madam Minister, you have three minutes and seven seconds at your disposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is, as has already been said, involved in the rehabilitation of the Vogršček barrier as a co-financing of €3.8 million in two budgetary years. So 1.9 million euros per year. It is the interest of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to approach the restoration of the barrier on the accumulation of Vogršček as soon as possible, as all conditions for the smooth operation of the Vogršček irrigation divorce will also be met by this rehabilitation. An irrigation divorce consisting of 16 irrigation fields is managed by the public maintenance management service operator — Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. On average, around EUR 65 000 is allocated to the annual management of irrigation maintenance through the administration and maintenance of state irrigation systems, which is sufficient for regular maintenance of irrigation and there is no investment support. Therefore, the local communities in which Vogršček's irrigation divorce is located together with the Ministry signed a letter of intent on 5 January 2018, which commits them to taking over the irrigation divorce in ownership, management and maintenance. The deadline for the transfer of ownership rights of administration and maintenance of irrigation to local communities is followed by the removal of the barrier to the accumulation of Vogršček. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has already convened a joint meeting with all local communities this year, where a new timetable for the transfer of irrigation to local communities has been presented to them. It was agreed to accede to the contract immediately after the beginning of the works on the bulkhead of the accumulation of Vogršček.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u67	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. This brings us to question number 8. Mr Simon Zajc, Minister of Environment and Space, there are basically four questions in the package. First of all, the question of Mrs Violete Tomić, connected to the cracking in Petišovci. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u68	The question was how do I think as a minister to stop and ban him forever? At this point, I can say that this can be prohibited in the Environmental Protection Act. We will bring this law to the National Assembly next year, called ZVO-2. Then there will be room, opportunity for discussion and a decision on this. So Members will be able to decide, on the basis of the facts, whether or not you will make a decision to prevent fracking. The marriage will be ready by next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The 9th question is from Mr Dusan Šiška, concerning Coal Velenje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u70	Thanks again. First, it may be explained that, under the Mining Act, a concession for the exploitation of coal is granted on the basis of a mining concession act issued by the Government on a proposal from the Minister responsible for mining. This concession will be renewed, and when it is renewed, it is very important, in my view, that the local community is invited to participate in the extension of this concession and it is then agreed that, on the basis of the CSR on which the originator pays or takes care of the removal, for recovery and possibly for any other compensation. In 2021, when it is appropriate to determine whether or not the Velenje Mine and in what way will it provide for the recovery of its operation or compensation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Shisko, do you have a question to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u72	Dear Minister, look. I must say that according to my information, the coal mine does not respect agreements with the victims or the Municipality of Šostjanj. For example, the ventilation shaft from the coal mine is located in the Municipality of Šostanj. The inhabitants and visitors of the Municipality of Šostjanj are bitter because of poor air and smell. As a result of the stench, the coal mine pledged to carry out the ventilation into the very chimney of the thermal power plant. It's been a couple of years. Members of the Slovenian National Party of Šostanj are interested in: When will the coal mine settle and fulfill its promise? On this occasion, let me add that the Slovenian National Party was already in the electoral campaign in 2008 against the construction of TES 6 because we had already warned that the coal mine did not have enough capacity for the needs of TES 6 and that the lignite would have to be imported from abroad, from Indonesia, but many were making fun of it at the time. And we were also ridiculed by the party on which Mr Rotnik himself ran for miracles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u74	It is difficult for me to respond to when Velenje Mine will fulfill its duties, but by law, the causeer has to take care of recovery, and first of all to remedy the negative consequences that they cause in the environment. So in this case, it is not cases as we know them, where our ministry must then recover, but the cause is still known, it works, and it will have to ensure that these negative consequences are resolved. But it will be a good time if, after the present concession contract, it is not yet possible, in 2021.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u75	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. The next question to which you must answer is the question of Mr Franc Kramar, linked to the Triglav National Park. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u76	This is the second time I've had this question. In the meantime, I met with the mayors once again because there was a variety of information about what had been agreed with the previous minister, what was true and what was not. At this meeting, we agreed to deliver to me within one week their key to how Article 11 will be implemented. We have a regulation in place. Once they bring this in, we will introduce this into the regulation, put the regulation into public debate and then adopt the regulation. But where it got stuck, there was something back there. They said they made some promises from my information. I can't tell myself right now that we're going to give a million and a half a half back because there's no money at the moment. If at the end of the year it turns out that this money is going to stay or that we're going to get an extra one from the MF, then that's another. But I can't promise something right now that I can't do because I don't have the resources in the budget for it. And forward as we agreed. Following this key, which they will propose, Article 11 will begin to be implemented. The regulation is ready, it will go to a public debate. Once it's finished, we still need to coordinate inter-resortically. This duty of enforcement of this Article will not be limited to the ILO, but the remaining ministries will also have to implement it because it is a matter of various measures to be financed. Then there was a question about the seat. The seat was indeed in the municipality of Bled, in premises owned by the Republic of Slovenia. In 2015, the Bohinj Information Centre in Stara Fužina was opened, jointly managed by TNP and Tourism Bohinj since 2017. We can also go to the presentation of this headquarters in Bohinj – these will, of course, be additional funds. I think it is more important that we first put resources into the implementation of Article 11. But well, if the pressure is that bad, we might as well go into it. By moving their headquarters to Bohinj, they would not contribute to the efficiency of the management of the national park, but they would now require additional resources, which, as I said, seems more meaningful to me to put them in that first part of the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there a request to supplement the answer? Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u78	Thank you very much, President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Yeah, next time it's a question. And that will be the question in this congregation, given the fact that nothing has moved for ten years. It's a legal provision. And this legal provision gives the local population living in Triglav National Park rights. And these rights are limited to ten years. They have limitations, they have prohibitions, they live with that. They live in a ghetto where nothing moves. That is why I will insist, until the end, that you begin to realize paragraphs 10 and 11. The criteria are known. 80% of the park investment in the park municipality must cover any investment in the park state. These are the criteria that I do not think need to be discussed. But the fact is, the mayors have informed me that you have instructed them to set the criteria, to set them, despite the fact that someone has been waiting in the background, which has been leading this issue of the TNP all the time and is sitting in your ministry, a respected secretary of Markezeva, who has been creating a destiny for the local population for years with such, I would say, winding things that are not at any point leading to the goal. I will insist on Articles 10 and 11. As far as the seat is concerned, I also stand firm in the position that it must move to the municipality with the largest population, because at present it looks like the Brixian bishops rule in Bled and people live in Bohinj. In this case, the park seat must move. By getting the information point, the information point is also in other park municipalities, it was only because of the adaptation of the burned house and the state restored it and it made the TIC point there. However, the fact is that the seat must be moved to the municipality with the largest population in the future. As far as Articles 10 and 11 are concerned, I ask you, Mr Minister, to make this happen. I don't know how long you're going to be interdisciplinating [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You don't have time anymore. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u80	I would be very happy if you would also support me at the Ministry of Finance, from which we must now get these funds if we are to resolve this this year. So in this case we can, but this moment in our ministry's budget we don't have this money and we can't give it. But I agree with you further. The law must be implemented. We agreed with the mayors to bring me this key, they already had it framed, but they asked for another week to get some more alignment. When they do, I'll stick to the deal I made with them. But, of course, I will be grateful for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Boštjan Koražija also asked a question related to the spatial development of the Republic of Slovenia by 2050 and to the emphasis on the status of Ptuj in it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u82	Thank you. On the basis of future consultations and expertise, our Ministry has drawn up a draft spatial development strategy for Slovenia 2050, for which public treatment is expected to start in June 2019 or after obtaining an opinion on the appropriateness of the environmental report and will last for at least 60 days. During this time, we will organise numerous presentations and dedications. Of course, representatives of the ZOS, SOS and ZMOS will also be invited to all these events. The spatial development strategy of Slovenia is a fundamental spatial strategic act of the Republic of Slovenia. It also includes a vision of the country's spatial development, long-term objectives and a long-term concept of spatial development with priorities and orientations for achieving the objectives. The Strategy supports the improvement of spatial cohesion, one of the three fundamental objectives of the EU in addition to economic and social cohesion. One of the key elements of the concept of spatial development for achieving spatial cohesion is the polycentric urban system, built up by wider urban areas. The draft defines Celje, Kranj, Novo mesto, Ptuj, Nova Gorica, Murska Sobota, Slovenj Gradec and Velenje as second-level centres because they are recognized as urban settlements with at least 15,000 inhabitants. It is a potential for the development of services of general and general economic interest, the potential for the development of intermodal transport hubs of urban and local public passenger transport, and contributes significantly to the care of residents in rural gravitational hinters. Together with the first level centres, these are three, Koper, Ljubljana and Maribor, which form the most urbanised areas in Slovenia, which are connected to their functional backs in wider urban areas. These include bottlenecks of urban communities, first- and second-level centres where housing development, public passenger transport, jobs, public services and services of these green systems are planned in a coordinated manner. The strategy will go into public debate for a short time and will last for a long time, so that it can be further complemented or explained at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u83	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Member, would you like a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u84	Mr President, thank you for saying so. I will read to the Minister two articles published by the STA, Slovenian Press Agency: »Ptujjski čorčniki četniki svetniki zvodnosti, on 3 June 2019 at an extraordinary meeting of the State unanimously requested that the city of Ptuj in the spatial development strategy of Slovenia 2050, which is being prepared by the Ministry of Environment and Space, be defined as a single centre of national importance. As the saints requested at yesterday's meeting, the country must take equal account of the spatial development modelling points for all municipal municipalities, as only Ptuj has reduced his status according to the strategy in force. They demand that Ptuj retain the status it already had in the current 2004 strategy. The second article is also published by the STA. “The parishioners from Lower Podravje supported the Ptuj meeting with the Ptuj City Council’s request to preserve Ptuj’s status as a separate centre of national importance.” I ask you to give me your answer now, especially in view of the extent to which they have been and will also take into account the suggestions and comments made by stakeholders from the field, especially in the area of Lower Podravje, both municipalities and fellow mayors of Lower Podravje, and now also city councilors or city councilors of the City Municipality of Ptuj and the avian mayor of Nuška Gajšek, have repeatedly addressed or addressed problematic points, which, despite other promises, have been included in the revised version of the strategy very narrowly or have fallen out of place. As the minister responsible for preparing the strategy, I ask you to make a commitment that the city of Ptuj in the spatial development strategy will have the status of a separate centre of national importance by 2050 and that it will not be connected in everything with the nearest Maribor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u86	At this point, I'm not going to make any commitments. As I said, the strategy will now be in public debate for 60 days. At that time, she'll adapt, change. At the end of this public debate, we will see whether what Ptuj wants with this strategy is achieved or not. I think so. But as I said, we've put three first stages now and then around the second. The ptuj will be tied to Maribor, which makes sense. However, if it turns out that it makes more sense in the course of the preparation of this strategy, we will go in the direction that will be more meaningful and more correct. However, I think it is right that we should give this time to share this well at the time of this public debate. But this would be at this point, when we have not even come to it, perhaps a little irresponsible of any kind of commitment to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u87	Mr. Minister, you've earned a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u88	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Ptuj has a centuries-long tradition of the administrative and economic centre of the wider region. Recently, politics has wanted to bring some tasks under the cover of a better organization from Ptuj to neighbouring Maribor, in various areas of the organisation, as well as in infrastructure planning. I therefore propose that we hold a broader debate in the National Assembly on the issue of preparing a strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Slovenia by 2050 in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We turn to the 12th question, which is addressed to the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc and to the Minister of Health, Aleš Šabedr. He was cast by a mag. Meira Hot, it has to do with the deployment of 5G networks and the consequences, environmental, health. Which of the ministers responds first? Mr. Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u90	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Your Honor, thank you for your questions. Dear Members and Members, welcome! I'll try to answer in a row. Answer the first question. The 5G system is in the development phase and therefore an integrated assessment of the positive and negative aspects of the implementation of the system is not yet possible. In assessing the impact of the implementation of the 5G network, Slovenia will follow as yet the recommendations of those international professional organisations and the recommendations of the European Union. The second question is somehow the answer. An independent Slovenian study on the impact of 5G on human health has not yet been carried out. Studies on the effects of non-ionising radiations on health are relevant only if they cover more experimental and epidemiological data. More than a separate national study, it makes sense for Slovenia to be involved in international projects. As a country, we are actively involved in the international dialogue on exposure to 5G radiation. In September 2019, the Institute for Non-ionised Radiation, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Radiation Protection, the Ministry of Public Administration and the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, will organise an international consultation at the highest level of expertise to regulate the latest knowledge of exposure to new 5G technologies. And the answer to your third question. At European Union level, the Scientific Committee on New Health Risks last considered exposure to non-ionising radiation in 2015. In its report, it already mentions essentially this emerging 5G system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now the Minister for the Environment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u92	I'm just going to add that I'm not going to repeat what's already been said. Perhaps it is only by comparison with the European Union that Slovenia has ten times more stringent restrictions than most EU countries. Therefore, there will have to be 5G antennas if they are placed within 20 metres of the inhabitants of the circus, while in most EU countries this distance is about 2.4 metres. Our ministry is not familiar with research at EU level in this direction. Otherwise various research is available on the website, this is true, which proves the damage or inviolability of the 5G network. The acceptability of such research is questionable, so we will wait in our ministry for credible conclusions of the research to be adopted by the European Commission and, as such, to be valid throughout the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u93	Thank you, both of you, ministers. However, the Member State wishes to have a supplement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Dear Minister! In my opinion and in the opinion of scientists, the introduction of the fifth generation mobile network technology will definitely result in increased and denser horizontal electromagnetic radiation. Regardless of the stricter guidelines in Slovenia, the fact is that there will be an increase in the number and that this radiation that will be caused will not in fact be avoided, since the installation of transmitters is planned even in schools, shops, hospitals. So, smart homes, at home we'll be exposed to increased radiation, outside we'll be exposed to increased radiation, but we don't even know what the consequences are. According to the EUROPAEM guidelines in 2016, electromagnetic radiation poses a risk to the emergence of certain cancers, Alzheimer's disease, infertility in men, environmental hazards can mean DNA defects, thus leading to cancer, premature ageing, metabolic disorders, sleep disturbances, disturbances in the brain’s glucose metabolism, the emergence of stress proteins, this is a number of diseases. And yet I think the public may not be aware that 230 scientists from 41 countries have signed a petition that warns against the dangers of high-frequency electromagnetic radiation of wireless 5G technology. Scientists point out that installation is an increase in radiation for the general population. Since 2011, the World Health Organisation has also classified wireless radiation as potentially carcinogenic. Of course, we are not on our own against the introduction of 5G. It is, however, that there is still a great deal of ignorance at this time and that there has been no real independent research at the level of the European Union at all. I have also read the European Commission's response to the petition in question, and it is somehow of a general nature, it does not guarantee that a real independent study will be carried out. I therefore appeal that an independent survey is carried out in Slovenia as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u95	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. I'm watching the ministers negotiate, who will answer first. Who wants to answer? No one wants to answer. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] No, that's not an appeal. The Member has the right to request a supplement to the reply. She asked if you understood as an appeal, it was a request to complete the answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u96	If I understand you correctly, you appeal to us that because the European Union will not do research to make us do it. Isn't it? We'll think about it. I can't say right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u97	You've got a second thought. This brings us to questions 13, 14, 15, all of which are intended for the Minister of Health. First of all, Mr Minister, you are answering Mr Jani Prednik's question concerning occupational diseases in Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, President. The basis for the adoption of the rules on occupational diseases is Article 68 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. According to the legal profession, the conditions and procedure for the identification of occupational diseases must be regulated at law level and not only at the level of the sub-legislative act, at least in key elements. Thus, the previously cited law is essentially subordinated to this part. However, the regulation of that subject matter was contrary to the rules of the hierarchy of legal acts only under the law. The Ministry of Health will therefore introduce several basic articles on the procedure and conditions in the field of identification of occupational diseases into the proposal for the Health and Health Insurance Act, hereinafter referred to as the CFSP-1. Although the proposal for a regulation on occupational diseases has already been prepared from a substantive point of view, it has already been presented to the Economic and Social Council. The proposal provides for a method of identifying and certifying occupational diseases, uniform entry into the system and entry documents for the initiation of proceedings, for the payment of proceedings, for the identification and certification of occupational diseases, and for the conditions under which the disease is considered a professional disease. The Ministry of Health will, of course, maintain in the rules on occupational diseases solutions, which, as has already been said, have been in line with a wide range of stakeholders, except with employers' representatives, because they also requested that legislation be changed before its adoption, particularly in the field of regressive claims against employers, as well as a limitation on the level of compensation to the employer. Both the rules on occupational diseases and the CFSP-1 are included in the Government's programme of work for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u99	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You also have the question of Mr Vojko Starović, which is related to the problem of family doctors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. I'm going to try to answer with a little more up-to-date information, because the question is from the previous sitting, a lot of things have happened since then. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Health have taken an important step by adopting Annex 1 to the 2019 General Agreement to address the problem of family medicine or by creating better working conditions. Family doctors and pediatricians at primary level may refuse to identify new people when they reach the burden of a thousand 895 head weights. The existing teams with a high head office of over a thousand 895 headcounts based on this annex of their designated persons will not print out and will encourage the selection of a personal physician in teams where the head office is lower. The Ministry of Health, together with all stakeholders, i.e. the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia and the Association of Health Institutions have also prepared measures for the administration of family doctors. The Ministry also appointed a working group, which is already in operation, to prepare changes to the accounting model in family medicine and paediatric medicine, which will be defined in annex number two to the general agreement. As for the functioning of health homes, it is true that some operate normally, while others have problems, we also see this in the human resources and financial field. It is also true that there is a difference in Slovenia regarding the burden of doctors on individual regions or so-called regional units of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia. Doctors, especially young people, are not interested in working in certain rural areas, nor are they interested in working in family medicine. At the Ministry, we will certainly take measures that will encourage young doctors and doctors already in the system to take up rural services. I must point out, however, that the Ministry is not the founder of health homes, does not manage it or set up boards of institutions and management of health homes. It is the responsibility of the management of health homes to provide additional time and to obtain additional staff or to ensure adequate payment of existing ones due to additional burdens. However, I must point out here that for the financing of this additional money, it is available under the general agreement for 2019. The Ministry is not considering amending legislation to increase the Ministry's competence with regard to health homes, but a network of public health services will be prepared in the coming years, on the basis of which health programmes and health services will be planned in a more systematic way in terms of accessibility and changing needs of the population, quality and safety of health care and, of course, national resource use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask for a supplement? No, no, no. Then let's move on. The Minister of Health will answer Sam Bevek's oral question regarding measures to prevent hospital infections. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u102	President, thank you for your word. Hospital infections are one of the major public health problems. According to the World Health Organization, one in ten patients acquires infection during the treatment process itself. In parallel, the problem of resistance to antibiotics is also increasing. In 2017 a third cross-sectional study on hospital infections was conducted in Slovenia, the estimated prevalence, i.e. the incidence of hospital infections in Slovenia, was 6.5% in 2017, 6.4% in 2011 and the intensive treatment units had already dropped slightly from 35.7 to 32.6%. In Slovenia, hospital infections or health-related infections are regulated by the Law on Infectious Diseases. This provides that all health care providers must have a health-related prevention and control programme. Administrative controls on the implementation of the law shall be carried out by the health inspectorate. Two national commissions, the National Commission for the Prevention and Control of Hospital Infections and the Commission for the Use of Antimicrobial Medicinal Products, have been responsible for the professional supervision of the programme's implementation. These controls showed an insufficient number of health workers to manage hospital infections in relation to bed facilities in Slovenian hospitals and a lack of single rooms for so-called patient isolation. In Slovenia we have also introduced two important quality indicators in the field of prevention of hospital infections, such as MRSA and hygiene. Both indicators are monitored separately in hospitals, according to general departments and intensive treatment departments, and in fact contribute significantly to improving the prevention and management of hospital infections and will continue to be the basis for planning possible improvements. For this year, we are planning, in cooperation with the Infectious Clinic, to reinvigorate education for hygienic watchers, renewable for hospital observers and established for representatives from primary health care and social health institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk would like to ask a further question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u104	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I started to point out the problem of hospital infections back in 2001 and then regularly, until today. I did not know that a third national survey was carried out in 2017, the first in 2001, the second in 2011 and the third in 2017. This is a major problem, at the annual level of hospital infection requires several times more lives than all traffic accidents with a fatal outcome. When I asked Dr. Kebra if he kept the data that 400 to 600 patients were killed because of hospital infections, he didn't object to the data. I would ask you, Minister, if you can, if you know, of course, if the medical profession in Slovenia has this information: How many patients in hospitals actually die from hospital infections? You have previously reported prevalence data, according to the 2011 study, this percentage really only slightly increased, from 6.4 in 2017 to 6.5% of patients who were infected with hospital infection. I would expect a trend in the opposite direction, and it would therefore be necessary to give more attention to healthcare professionals, doctors, nurses to use preventive measures, especially the contamination of deadlines, which is the cheapest measure to prevent hospital infections. However, I would like to quote another information from the Medical Views, which says that in units for intensive care, the percentage of hospital infections was 35.7%, which is very large, and I think that much more needs to be done in this place than has been done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Minister, is there anything else you'd like to add to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. As you yourself have found, and as we are aware of at the Ministry, this is one of the major problems. Right now, I don't have any data on how many deaths are actually due to hospital infections, so we're going to get that data. However, I would like to say another information, which is also publicly available. The World Health Organisation has estimated that the costs of eliminating the consequences of hospital infections account for about 15% of the cost of operating hospitals, so there is also a major problem in other countries as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members, to the first round. The first question in this round will be the oral question put by Mr Eva Irgl, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Xenia Klampfer, but she's gone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. I am very sorry that the Ministers for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities today are not able to answer this very important question. On Friday, June 14th, the deadline for us to adopt the Law on the Correction of Blame for the Misinterpretation of the Law concerning the adoption of two different supplements in the case of the blind and the visually impaired has expired. Let me just say for a second what's been going on so far. They were told that they could only receive one supplement, and in 2012 the court decided that the additives were not excluded and that they could receive both supplements and that the Centre for Social Work and the Ministry had made a mistake, and this was a serious mistake that needed to be addressed. For the first time, I met the parents of blind and visually impaired children on 20 December 2018 when they protested before the National Assembly. No one heard them at the time, and no one wanted to accept them. I was the only one who did it. Then, on the basis of this interview on 14 February 2019, I also convened an urgent meeting of the Commission, at which the two decisions were then adopted unanimously, namely that the State's Attorney's Office should immediately suspend all enforcement procedures in the proceedings against the parents in respect of the case, and secondly that the Government should immediately or at the latest within four months – although I wanted to do so immediately, but then somehow decided that the matter would be carried out – by supplementing and regulating the relevant legislation to correct the wrongs caused by the misinterpretation of the law, which the Ombudsman also points out. That is why, Madam Secretary, and I hope that you will also give me an oral answer at my next meeting: Why was it still clear that a mistake had been made, that the Ministry and social work centres had made mistakes, despite the fact that a decision had been taken on the Human Rights Commission, why were proceedings against the parents of blind and visually impaired children still pending before the courts? And a second time. You said at the Checkouts, Madam Minister, that the matter would be resolved within the time limit agreed on by the Commission on Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. This deadline, Your Honor, has expired. I want to know: When exactly will the marriage be ready? When will the injustices of these people actually be brought to an end? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Your request will be included in the next session. Now let's get on with it. Ambassador Iva Dimic will raise an oral question to Interior Minister Boštjan Poklukar and Minister of Public Administration Rudija Medved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u110	Respectable both ministers! In recent years, many working people have been evicted from Slovenia, most of whom are economic migrants. There are also numerous cases of migration for other reasons — education, studies, professional training, research activities, family reasons, and the like. When leaving Slovenia, these persons retain their permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia in order to return after a certain period of time. Increasingly, however, administrative units for these citizens are in the process of establishing their place of residence. If they find that they do not actually live at the address of their permanent residence, they shall simply be deleted from the register of residents after the administrative procedure carried out. As a result, in the Republic of Slovenia they are left without permanent and temporary residence and without all rights relating to permanent residence, these are social security benefits, student health insurance and so on. The category of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia without residence in the Republic of Slovenia was reached after the entry into force of the Law on Registration of Residence, which began to apply on 13 August 2017. According to known data, several thousand people were left without a place of residence, who generally do not know that their residence was taken away because the administrative decision was served through an e-portal. The Law on Registration of Residence 1 is known by the Institute of Legal Residence, which is the address of the municipality or centre of social work, where it should be reported to the person found not to be staying in the process at the address where it was registered. According to our information from this Institute, the administrative units in most cases do not take into account. Dear Minister, I ask you: Is the Institute of Legal Residence, established by the new Law on Registration of Residence (PPPreb 1), in practice established in the way it was designed? How many residence procedures have been introduced on an official basis? How many people were thus deleted from the population register? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I suggest you answer first, Minister Poklukar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Madam Member, I am introductoryly explaining that the Law on Registration of Residence in Article 10, paragraph 5, provides for a provisional obligation of temporary address abroad for citizens and foreigners with a permit to reside permanently in the Republic of Slovenia and temporarily settle abroad for more than 90 days for studies, work and similar reasons. A temporary address abroad must be made by individuals no later than 15 days after the settlement and a change in the temporary address abroad no later than 15 days after the change. The new law has brought the application process closer to individuals by allowing a temporary address abroad to be registered even before a settlement abroad if the application indicates the date of the settlement. The application shall be valid for up to 4 years and may be renewed upon expiry. In the event of a registered application for temporary residence abroad, the maintenance of permanent residence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia is generally not disputed and in practice does not constitute grounds for establishing a finding procedure under official duty. With regard to the termination of residence on the application address, I explain that this constitutes a extreme measure and only under the conditions laid down by law, so the administrative unit in the process of determining residence cannot determine where the person resides and cannot also declare legal residence. The finding procedure first identifies at which address the individual actually resides on a permanent basis. If it is established in the procedure that an individual has moved from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, a permanent residence shall be checked out to an individual and shall become a foreign address if the administrative unit is known or the country to which he has moved if the administrative unit is not known. The registration of a permanent residence on the basis of a decision in the proceedings may be made at an address abroad but may only be carried out at the level of the country of residence, without entering the full address abroad. If the address where the individual actually resides in the Republic of Slovenia cannot be established, the municipality in the Republic of Slovenia where the individual is located shall be identified. In this case, an individual shall be provided with registration of a legal residence at the address of the municipality or the centre of social work. Only in the event that the administrative unit cannot determine where the person resides and cannot at the same time determine his or her legal residence, the person does not fulfil the conditions for the registration of a legal residence, the person in the register of permanent residence shall, on the basis of the final decision, cease to apply for permanent residence. In doing so, it should be stressed that such situations cannot occur in individuals who carry out their own reporting obligation in a consistent manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u113	Thank you very much. One more word to Minister Bear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member, I would like to give you the latest information in this short period of time that I have been given. Workable colleagues and colleagues gathered them by administrative units last Saturday and Sunday. From 1 January to 31 May this year, 4 000 465 applications were submitted. These applications or applications may be submitted by different investors for different reasons. Of these 4 thousand 465 applications were completed by a decision to register legal residence, in which case Slovenian citizens living in the Republic of Slovenia do not have a permanent or temporary residence, but are, for example, resident or in homes, or persons staying in prison, are in victim protection programmes or safe houses and so on. And 356 were decisions to terminate the address of permanent residence. Nor does this mean that these citizens and citizens have been erased. Whether they have moved from Slovenia and have not notified the administrative units within the prescribed time limit that they have moved, the deadline is fixed by law, whether they have not responded in any way to the calls of the administrative units. Nor does this mean, of course, that they have been deprived of legal residence, as a colleague has already said before me. It is found that in most cases this is the case, the title of their actual residence is determined, even if they live abroad, whether it is economic migrants or perhaps students, young researchers. Of course, it is not possible for them to just disappear and cannot be determined, even if they have not declared their departure abroad, that their status could not be determined where they reside and that their status could be properly regulated. All of this data suggests that the situation is certainly not as apocalyptic as you described at the outset that it is not a common case of disappearance and, of course, it is the same as those leaving abroad who are responsible under the law to inform administrative units accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Of course, Mr Poklukar, you have read what I myself have stated, how the Law on Registration of Residence is designed and what it must cover. We have both found out correctly, but the problem is that there are different practices. And even if one is deleted, it may be apocalyptic, or non-apocalyptic, but I think that even if one is deleted, I have information that it is not only one that this is a serious problem, that the law has been adopted so that simply certain people, perhaps even because of speculative purposes, simply do not have a residence and then simply against such a person who has been erased from the register, cannot be initiated without a fair and non-executive procedure, since the residence of the debtor is one of the mandatory identifiers of the person. Nevertheless, I would like to tell you about the cases that are coming, you two have figured out the situation, thank you for the numbers, what is going on and what these numbers are. However, I am interested, we cannot say this is not apocalyptic, so we have no problems in Slovenia. We have problems, and that is why I have also asked a question. And I want to know: What measures, Mr Minister, will this be taken to eliminate the bizarre state of affairs, so to speak? Even if it's one, I have more information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Poklukar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Your Honor. That's right. The law is not to be played, but some numbers should also be given on my part. During the period from 1. 1. 2016 to 31. 12. In 2018, 21 000 56 residence procedures were introduced in administrative units, of which 772 were completed by a decision on the registration of a legal residence and 3 000 164 procedures by a decision on the termination of the address of a permanent residence. When you say what to do, we also discuss these matters thoroughly with the Minister of Public Administration. In fact, we do not want any deletion to occur here, any misrepresentation of these people, but every citizen going abroad must take care of, or even if he is registered elsewhere in the Republic of Slovenia, the registration of temporary residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Bear, would you like to add something to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u120	Thank you very much. As mentioned by the Minister, both ministries cooperate closely in this area. These are very difficult procedures and in administrative units these procedures are conducted by the most qualified staff, who are, of course, also under the very strong supervision of both the Ministry of Public Administration and the Ministry of the Interior. In order to make mistakes now, we don't even have the data, or maybe there's some inconsistencies in the law itself, that, as you mention, and even if one is erased itself, there is, of course, a need to find out. I know that in cases where administrative units are obliged to report residences on the addresses of municipalities or centres for social work, they do so consistently. I also know that, although there was some confusion at the outset, and some congregations have also defended this process, and that we do not record any major problems here, at least according to the information we have. As it is said, both ministries in close contact in this area and possible inconsistencies in the legislation itself will also be adjusted accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Member of the Commission shall have the floor to propose a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u122	Yes, there is a general debate. In particular, because of the fact that obviously things are not working, it is obvious that both ministers are connected, but it is possible to look at another ministry which is actually having problems in this area, here I also think the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour, the family, where there are the most undeclared decisions that the citizen of the Republic of Slovenia should of course take. That is why I think there is a need to have a general debate here in which the law needs to be rectified so that such incidents do not occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 18 June 2019, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Primož Siter will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags an oral question. Xenia Klampfer, but she's gone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities recently sent proposals for amendments to the Law on Social Protection Benefits to the Government for consideration. The measures envisaged under this proposal also include the abolition of the labour allowance received by the active recipients of social assistance. As can be seen from the explanation, the abolition of the labour allowance will primarily mean that social assistance will be reduced to as many as 18 000 975 beneficiaries, of which 8 000 117 children. In addition, 4 thousand 149 people will be deprived of social assistance, of which almost a thousand 800 children. The abolition of an employment allowance means, therefore, that families or single persons who are entitled to lower or equal monetary social assistance, such as an employment allowance, will not be entitled to financial social assistance at all. About the add-on like this. While the Institute of Supplement is designed to motivate and encourage individuals to work, the reality is, in fact, that this is a matter of whether or not the possibility of paying the bills, i.e. those most socially at risk, that I am not talking at all about the component of the cheap exploitation of the vulnerable working group. Of course, the ministry excuses all of this by giving these active ones experience to grow up in person and so on, but the fact remains that with the supplement they want to eliminate, something is now very wrong. I therefore refer to the Ministers with some questions that I will ask them to answer orally at the next meeting. First of all, I want to know: How does the Minister explain that it is an activity allowance received by persons who are not employed? So I ask for a clear position whether these people are active or not. According to the Ministry, this supplement is supposed to cause a trap of inactivity, so I ask: How can the activity allowance cause inactivity? The Ministry says that cash social assistance and an allowance for work activities are too high or too close to minimum wages. That's why I'm asking: Does the Ministry advocate that the minimum wage is too low? This is €667 net, and this, thanks to the Left, would have been even lower if it had been in line with the Ministry's wishes. Therefore, again: What is the position of the Ministry and the Minister up to the minimum wage? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be included in the next meeting. There you will also get an oral response. The next question will be the oral question put by Mr Igor Peček, Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister Simon Zajc, under the 2004 Wildlife Protected Species Regulation, jackals are classified as protected native species. This Regulation lays down rules of conduct for protected species, a special protection regime and protection measures and conservation guidelines. Since 2014, the jackal has also been included in the list of hunting species. It is therefore dealt with by two parallel copies and currently makes it impossible to manage the population properly in a sustainable manner. The current state of the jackal population in Slovenia is expected to be around 400 animals and the number has increased very quickly in recent years. The prevalence and population density could, according to the Hunting Union assessment, be affected by appropriate management, which must be addressed or determined by the competent institutes. The jackals are found virtually everywhere throughout the Republic of Slovenia, both in Kras, Primorske and in Gorenjska, observations about the appearance of jackals in both the lowland area and in the hilly world and in the face of growing problems caused by them are becoming more common. Recently, visitors to higher-lying farms and smaller settlements at the foot of the Kamnik-Savinja Alps, at the foot of Krvavac, Šenturska gora, Command are common. It affects the number of deer and its age composition, as the groups of deer are smaller and the proportion of young deer is decreasing. It is also worrying that it appears in the vicinity of the village or in the villages and endangers the animals on the pasture, there is no exception to the small amount of poultry or young cattle. Since it is also a carrier of parasites and many types of diseases that we have never known before, its increasing number should be taken seriously in all meanings of the word, not only in the form of observational monitoring. With regard to that, I am interested in: What are the plans at the Ministry of the Environment and the area related to the great increase in jackals in recent years? Is the plan to delete the jackal from the list of protected species, and what would follow in this case? What general conditions must be met in order to be able to speak to an extraordinary shot? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u128	Thank you. The jackal is listed in Annex 5 under the Habitats Directive, which means that it is in the interest of the community, but that it can be managed or that it can be managed by management measures, which means that it can also be given as a hunting animal. At this point, we have an outside amendment to the regulation, which is exactly what it provides for, that is, the deletion from the protected species. In fact, according to an assessment made by the Department of Nature Protection, the state of the population is such that it is not endangered. When we get rid of protected species, that means that it will be handled like other animals, which means that 10-year plans are made and annual plans are made. In any event, it must be managed in such a way that it does not become a endangered species. With regard to the question of the conditions for intervention in the protected species population, I would like to read to you the exceptions set out in Article 7 of the Regulation on the protection of wild animals. An intervention shall be possible if there are no other satisfactory options and these practices do not prejudice the conservation of the favourable state of the population, namely, by ensuring the benefit of the protection of animal and plant species and by maintaining habitat types, by preventing serious harm, in particular on crops, livestock, forests, fisheries and water, and other property, by ensuring human health and safety, including air safety, or by other urgent reasons of prevalence of public benefit, which may also be social or economical, and by the beneficial consequences of the essential importance for the environment, immigration or repopulation of animals, including by cultivation for purposes of immigration or resettlement, selective and restricted capture, labelling equipment and transmitters or intervention which may cause damage or recovery of animals for the purposes of research, selective and restricted capture or recovery of animals for the purposes of education or selective and control of animals. In return, the public debate, the amendment to the regulation, is closed on 12 July.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The next oral question will be asked by the mag. Branko Grims, Minister of the Interior of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! The situation on our southern border is, of course, a problem that goes beyond the borders of the Republic of Slovenia. Just yesterday, the Germans published an estimate in their media that they still come to Germany every day after 500 illegal migrants or asylum seekers and that at least two thirds of them come safely along the Balkan route. That's 350 people on the Balkan route a day. It is clear to everyone that they must go through the Republic of Slovenia. So part of them obviously sneaks through, the second part, we all know, goes to what I say, the biggest industry in Slovenia, to just call the police, it's said, we're here, but now if they're intercepted, one way or another, they demand asylum before the process runs out, they abuse the time available, and they move on. Even after the initiation of the procedure, as a rule, the procedure fails or is terminated due to departure, and could also be referred to as an escape from asylum. Who's using that? They abuse asylum seekers who come or illegal migrants. They come from countries where there is no war at all, so those stories about the poor refugees today really don't even want to hear anymore. They come mainly from Algeria, Morocco and so on. In short, abuse is daily. And these abuses are very expensive, costing Slovenian taxpayers. Therefore, money is running out for everyone, from pensions, to schools, to health care, to everything that the normal state provides to its citizens and citizens. The most controversial point is that the country is still funding those NGOs that are actively helping. Crime is a crime, even if it hides itself behind high-pitched words about humanitarianism, so is the opinion of the Public Prosecutor's Office. So the question is: When and how, however, will it take action against these NGOs that help them to invade illegal migrants into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and then help them to delay the procedures that we all pay for? When is it gonna stop funding you? What does it mean that the government's website still says that they are cooperating well with the PIC and the Peace Institute, and these are the leaders of the LBTQP ideology of well-founded NGOs that are actively involved in illegal trafficking of migrants into Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u132	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for the question. With regard to the operation of NGOs in assisting migrants, the police in 2018 saw a more active role of the PIC NGO in the announcements of illegal refugees. Representatives of a non-governmental organisation reported to the police the location of irregular migration crossings, e-mailing their names and other circumstances, for example by expressing their intention to obtain international protection, that persons are in poor health and so on. Interviews with migrants revealed that a representative of a non-governmental organization should direct migrants, where and how they should travel, distribute leaflets in English with instructions and teach them how to act in police and other procedures. With regard to the active role or the conduct of a non-governmental organisation described, the police submitted a report pursuant to Article 148, paragraph 10, of the Criminal Procedure Act to the competent district state prosecutor, which did not require any additions from the police. In the second case, the police administration, in a particular case, requested the District State Prosecutor's Office to provide an opinion on the possible existence of a suspicion of a criminal service. The opinion of the District Attorney's Office was that in a particular case, it was not the existence of a suspicion of a criminal service, but that it was a preparatory act under Article 308 of the Penal Code, which was not criminal. In addition, the police at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia submitted an application for a definition and an opinion on the legality of the conduct of a non-governmental organisation or whether in those cases the offences could be officially prosecuted under Article 308(5) of the Penal Code. The Supreme State Prosecutor’s Office of the Republic of Slovenia has determined that in the cases described above it is not a crime and has agreed with the opinion of the District State Prosecutor’s Office. In its opinion, it highlighted the possibility of a criminal offence under certain conditions in cases where it is not a humanitarian activity, but rather a property benefit. I must say, honourable Member, that the Ministry of the Interior is working with 17 NGOs that help us in various areas, including the role of the PIC is to provide information and legal advice in procedures for international protection. I must say that many NGOs are extremely quality and qualitative in helping criminals and police to prevent the abuse of victims, such as women, children. In fact, quite a few of their practices and skills, especially those that the police do not have, are very welcome. I must say that any illegal conduct the police will receive in their work, including with NGOs, or that it will actually be illegal practices, will also be processed by the police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u133	Thank you very much. You have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u134	The whole story has to be seen as a whole. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has now given a completely wrong signal to illegal migrants twice. The first was the signing of the Marrakesh global agreement on regulated, safe and legal migration and the second was signed last week when the government amended the decree and removed Turkey from the list of safe countries. In practice, this means that asylum seekers, or those who come illegally to Slovenia, are no longer returned there. This is also a derogation from the internationally harmonised policy of the European Union, as the 2016 agreement between the European Union and Turkey was precisely based on Turkey being defined as a safe country where migrants can safely return. This does not, by the way, affect the exceptional rights of those migrants who can prove that they are threatened by any kind of violence or that they are life-threatening or existentially threatened in the country where it comes from. This only applies, of course, as an exception, but not as a rule, which therefore affects the speed of proceedings. And now this is about the third signal. The third signal, however, is the question of how these NGOs are treated. Neighbouring countries, such as Italy, have already made the order here largely not to list the others at all. In Slovenia, unfortunately, the situation is quite reversed and still unreservedly financed by these NGOs, on the other hand, they are referred to when it comes to procedures. But there is something to know, we pay for these procedures by Slovenian taxpayers. All this stalling, all this crowd cost us a terrible lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I must say that Slovenian police at our Schengen border, at the border with the Republic of Croatia, are daily adapting measures regarding illegal crossings. It is true and I agree that in the Republic of Slovenia there is an abuse of the asylum system, but it is not only the problem of the Republic of Slovenia, but a number of Member States. I hope that, following the establishment of the European institutions, this process, which has stalled slightly, will also move from a dead point. I believe we'll be successful at that, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u138	Thank you. Of course, I propose that the National Assembly discuss this. For something helps, as Mr Minister has now stated, that the newly elected European institutions will seize their work if Slovenia has just unilaterally deviated from co-ordinated policies in such a sensitive area as illegal migration. In 2016, this agreement between the EU and Turkey interrupted the massive maximum flow we witnessed at the time. And every such solute, all this politics, that agreed policy, it threatens. Nor is the European Union without sin here. A lot of mistakes, a lot of what happened, it was wrong. The whole story of illegal migration is in fact illegal, because if international agreements and the legislation of the national Member States of the European Union were respected, none of what happened could have happened. But once the situation was resolved, this agreement was something that produced results. And from this Slovenia has now resigned and even worse Slovenia is a member of the Schengen. Do you know what Slovenia does, binds and affects the entire Schengen area. Therefore, it is not difficult to guess what the result will be, and the result will be extremely harmful. That's why this government move is so harmful. The result will be to further strengthen the pressure to exclude Slovenia from the Schengen area, because there is only a coordinated work, a concerted work, because a single move affects everyone else. As a result, on the whole of this issue, on the issue of Slovenian foreign policy in this area, on the issue of security policy, on the issue of internal policy, on the issue of protecting our borders and on the success of those which have so far severely distorted the Schengen membership of Slovenia, to which we have witnessed in the past, you know that we have been able to cross the border at any time and in any way and there has been virtually no problem anymore, now things have changed significantly and are constantly continuing. All of this is gonna get worse. It's going to get worse because of these wrong moves by the government that give the wrong signal. None of our northern neighbors joined Marrakesh. It's Slovenia, under the government of Marjana Sharca. None of our neighbours gave Turkey from the list of safe countries, Slovenia did. The only one. Which, of course, is a completely wrong, wrong signal. Slovenia is thus becoming in the eyes of illegal migrants, who, believe me, I am a very well-organised, promised country in my invasion, a target country. And that, of course, makes it more difficult for our police to refer to. I believe that the military and the police are making an extreme effort and are working with extreme effort. But the government must, too. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 18 June 2019, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Jani Ivanuša will ask the Minister of Infrastructure an oral question. Alenki Brother.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u140	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, ministers and ministers, everyone else present in the Chamber, a nice greeting! Initially, on my question to the Minister of Infrastructure, I will just say that this question has already been raised by the Armenian Member, but the subject is sensitive, so we repeat the question, because from our end of Slovenia, from where we come from, we will constantly ask the Minister this question. I'm asking the secretary: How are the work activities carried out following the main road G1-2 Hajdin-Ommož? We have been working on this road connection for 20 years. A partial single permit for the first section of this road Ormož-Gorišnica was issued 22. 2. 2007 The construction works at this section began twice and ended on both occasions due to the bankruptcy of construction companies, first Vegrad and then Primorje. The investor of this road is Dars. Due to the construction of this road, which should have been completed in 2013, the construction of the railway line Prague–Hodoš to the place Mihovci, which is on the current main road Ormož–Ptuj, did not result in an out-of-state crossing, which is now contrary to legislation. Last year, an invitation was made to complete the construction of the bridge building viaduct Sejanec and last autumn this construction began again. The entire road link Ormož-Hajdin is approximately 22 kilometers long and is divided into three sections. For the first section of Ormož-Gorišnica a building permit was issued in 2007 and is still valid. For the second part, Gorišnica – Markovci, the building permit should be in the stage of acquisition. More than five houses in the area were demolished and families were moved ten years ago. A lot of money was also spent. The third section of Markovci-Hajdin still needs to be placed in the space. Meetings at the Markovci Congregation are held each month on this subject. I'm asking the Minister: How are construction works going on the Sejanec viaduct? When will they be finished? When will the call for the construction of the first section of Ormož-Gorišnica? It was promised at the end of 2018. When will the building permit for the second part be obtained, this is Gorišnica-Markovci? How are the activities concerning the placement of the third part of Markovci-Videm in Ptuj taking place? That's new. What are the arrangements with the Municipality of Vida pri Ptuj, which recently began to condition the construction of the mentioned road? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Now I give my word to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Commissioner, at each meeting I get a question related to a particular road or a certain section, but only because of the issue of investment will it run any faster. And you probably won't be fully satisfied with my answer today, because the exact dates for everything you've said are hard to say. The fact is, the procedures before we get a building permit in our country are quite lengthy. But I'll tell you what stage this project you're asking me about is today. And it is true that this road connection has been very busy in the past or for a very long time. The second fact is that some things have only accelerated in recent years. As you yourself have found, DARS is an investor on this road and can say that construction activities on this part, where the spatial plan is adopted, have already started in cities and very difficult spatial placement is taking place at the section from Ptuj to Ormož. The local environment is also informed of all these activities. At the moment, DARS, as an investor in the section from Ormož to Markovec, completes the production of the missing project documentation, acquires the missing land, builds the viaduct Sejanec, has obtained administrative permits, completes the transfer of the remote. In view of the additional requirements of the Ministry of the Environment and Space after further environmental checks and environmental consents have been made, the start of the construction of the Markovci-Gorišnica-Ormoz section will be delayed by at least 6-8 months according to previous plans, according to the DARS assessment. Unfortunately, however, the Ministry of Infrastructure, or whatever we say, has no possibility of affecting the speedy implementation of these procedures. The section of the newly planned road connection Ptuj – Markovci is in the phase of placing the road route into space. The preparation of the State Spatial Plan is currently in the stage of finding new possible options for road planning. The producers of ideas solutions, variant studies, pre-investment designs and environmental reports were selected at the end of April 2019 on the basis of the invitation to tender prepared by the DARS and have already started working. The Ministry of Infrastructure, as the initiator of the preparation of the DN and the DARS as the investor and the Ministry of Environment and Space as the maker of the DN, have jointly drawn up a draft timetable covering the implementation of all the necessary steps in accordance with the Law on Spatial Planning. The main activities are planned in a way: by the end of July 2019, acquisition, completion of the guidelines of the spatial regulators; by April 2020, preparation of a set of evaluation options, which means planning a new variant and optimising existing presentations and coordination of the selection of variants within the inter-ministerial working group and the implementation of workshops, preparation of the final set of evaluation variants; by December 2020, the development of a study of pre-investment design variants and environmental report with all the necessary expertise, and the implementation of field workshops, the completion of the study of variants, pre-investment design and environmental report by municipalities, public authorities and operators; confirmation of the study of variants or pre-investmental design by May 2021; the public development of the study variant, pre-investment design and environmental report of June 2021; and the completion of the study of the pre-investment and environmental report. As already mentioned, the local environment has been informed of all of this. The proceedings may be longer than we all would have wanted, but as I have already said, as Minister of Infrastructure, I have no influence on all of this. However, the Minister of Environment and Space and I have repeatedly dealt with the issue of the preparation of all these documents, and as the Presidents of the Government have said today, it is likely that there will be some legal solutions that will have to be found quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u143	Thank you very much. You have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u144	Yeah, well, this is gonna be fine with what you said. If really at six to eight months all that was left to delay, a person would still suffer, but I believe it will not be so, because this road should have been built by now, I don't know when, since 2013, we should have been driving on it. [[…]] I don't know, I have a feeling that at the end of Slovenia we are not the same as the central part of Slovenia, that we are some second-class citizens, so at least we are being treated economically and also on this road connection. It bothers me so much that it's taking so long, and it's hurting everyone. I've been driving myself for two hours from Ormož. What logic is it that I have to drive for two hours every day, it doesn't go in my head. I need an hour to get to the highway a day. If this was some consistent all-Slovenian development, which is, well, I would like to say that when I hear a study, a resolution and a strategy, then your hair, as far as I have it, jumps up, because I know it, because it's stalling right away. [[…]] That's such an excuse. I would say so, Madam Minister, the former Minister was a little more in favour of our work, there have been a lot more positive developments, but now I have a feeling that you have become Minister, and that is not the case. Sorry, I'm afraid you're blocking, but I have this feeling that things are getting a little chilly, this story. I know there's a third development axis here, so, don't God let anyone know that I'm against it. Coherent development – throughout Slovenia should be equal and equal. But I'll tell you, because you said that you've notified the civil initiative or the environment, the inhabitants, I don't know, for the end of the month, the prisons on this test are expected, and then you'll see what people will say. That's it. I wouldn't want to, but that's how it's gonna be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u146	Dear Member, I have told you how the procedures are proceeding. No jail time for these procedures will, unfortunately, be quick. I'm the minister for eight months, and I can say that with a lot of intensity, we run infrastructure facilities. It's just that we have things set up in our country the way we have them. I cannot pass that all these documents I have listed are necessary for your road, for the road in Dolenjska and for the road in Primorska. And if you look at one big infrastructure project in Primorska, it took almost 20 years to start it. But I will never stand before you and promise something that can't be removed. So I ask nicely, I call people in that area, I appeal, and I say that the road closure itself can't possibly speed things up. As I have already said, today, the Prime Minister of the Government has made a commitment to one another, as well as an infrastructure, energy infrastructure project, to look at what in environmental legislation to do to make things go faster, more than 14 days, so that our State Secretarys sit together and watch the project after the project, but there is no way to do it. Besides the legislation, you won't hear me do one thing and neither will the road in Styria.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The Member has the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u148	Yeah, I'll just say one more sentence first. Basically, the end of the month prison will be, simply because people have a suitcase full of stuff. It is a promise of civil disobedience. Maybe the story will get a little faster, if not the other way around. But I didn't say you should be breaking any law or anything right now, and I didn't ask you to do that, too, far away from it. Mainly, I will personally join this civil disobedience, because it is simply necessary to give people support. But I would like a broader discussion on this subject, because the regulation allows this, so much so that it is done that, since it is not only our road, the problem is consistent, equitable and correct development of the whole of Slovenia. In accordance with Article 246, I ask for a general debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 18 June 2019, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Jani Prednik will raise an oral question to Minister of Health Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u150	Dear Minister of Health, all the others present, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The crisis of lack of family doctors in Slovenia has been successfully and gradually resolved. Although the situation is calming, there are still shortages of family doctors in certain health homes. Certain health homes are also trying to solve the crisis by hiring doctors from abroad. Specifically, the Nazarje Health House is waiting for the Ministry of Health to approve the employment of two doctors, a specialist in family medicine, from Bosnia and Herzegovina. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, briefly: Has the commission that decides on the appropriateness of the employment of doctors from other countries already started working? When can we expect the first decisions by this commission? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. Messengers and Members! First of all, I would like to point out that, at the Ministry of Health, in order to ensure that the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications are implemented as soon as possible, we also regulate the removal of administrative burdens in the Ministry's internal acts, so that we can also speed up these procedures or allow the Commission to act as soon as possible. The Commission may propose recognition of a professional qualification or an additional condition, namely an adjustment period of up to 12 months and/or a test of professional competence. Only after a foreign doctor has fulfilled the condition of recognition of professional qualifications can he obtain a medical certificate in the Republic of Slovenia. However, since you specifically asked me about the Nazarje Health Center, I obtained information this morning about the current situation. In the Nursing House of Nazarje, they are in agreement with two foreign doctors, as you yourself said, 12. On 6 this year, a decision was issued to pay the costs of a Commission of EUR 234, both for one doctor and another, so that we are waiting for this payment to go forward with the procedures. The payment of these procedures is arranged differently, some doctors applying for work, some health care homes themselves. And maybe I could give you some other information. Two other doctors from abroad also agree to work in Slovenia, namely the Novo Mesto Health House. And here we have, for one doctor, it was 13. 6. A decision on the payment of costs was also issued and 22 for another doctor. 5th call for an extension of the application. Here the proposer has a 30-day deadline to complete the role. This is where the deadline expires at 24. 6. And then we have the fifth case of a doctor for the Health House of Žalec. This is where he was 23. 5. issued an invitation to define the application on the prescribed form so that we are waiting here to send a clear request by Health Home Žalec. According to my behavior, there are these five doctors. In fact, procedures are ongoing, but they are in different stages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The Member of Parliament is satisfied with the answer. The following will raise an oral question from Ambassador Alenka Jeraj, also to Health Minister Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. The Minister sends his best regards! I am interested in data from the previous government, although former Minister Kolarjeva, 2014 to 2018: How many and what advisers did the Ministry of Health employ or contract with during the period 2014-2018? My fellow Member had already asked Mrs Kolarje about this in 2017 or 2018, and had then received an answer that it was with a credit agreement concluded up to and including 31. 12. 2017, laid down the obligations of the trader, that was then Prof. Dr. Dušan Keber, to lead the working group to prepare a proposal for a new Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, substantive assistance and so on. At that time, it was said that this contribution would cost the country around €14,000. Later, however, we obtained or published information that these numbers were also higher. And I want to know: For how long and why was Dr. Keber contractually involved with the Ministry? How much funding have we also earmarked for all the other advisers who may have been involved in this period by the Ministry of Various Lawmaking or something else? Was there any effect then? As far as I know, the guidelines were really made, and then the law was not changed. Did Dr. Keber prepare something that was actually useful then, or are we paying for something that remains in drawers?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Thank you for the question, Madam Ambassador. During the period 2014-2018, the Ministry of Health had concluded advisory contracts with various external operators or experts from individual professions, which also cover specific areas. All of these advisory contracts concluded between 2014 and 2008, totalling 84 000 833.86 euros. But it is true that we are only talking here about advisory contracts. I also have here a list which is on two sides of different operators, but these contracts, which are not advisory contracts at the Ministry, are essential. I have prepared a list of these so-called advisory contracts, where there is no such gentleman on the list. However, we can also present to you all the other contracts concluded by the Ministry with external operators during this period 2014-2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The Member State shall have a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u158	If you have this, I'd ask, because it might be easier if you asked me a written question, but I actually wanted Dr. Kebra. So it wasn't an advisory contract, it was another contract. Apparently, there are even more such contracts, so I would ask you to provide me with this information or in writing, and now you can exchange it. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Is there another answer that needs to be answered, Minister? If so, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u160	Madam Member, I can now present a list of these so-called advisory contracts, for the other contracts which have been concluded at the Ministry during this period, and we will prepare them and, of course, forward them to you. Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u161	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ambassador Boris Doblekar will ask the Minister of Infrastructure of the Magi an oral question. Alenka Bratušek and Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u162	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, I have also asked about the same problem a while ago, the same problem that is very difficult, but nothing has really moved since then. My question in particular concerns this cross-cutting cooperation, the procedures for putting a certain road or route into space. We see that they are very eager to get involved in procedures, and then in water consensus studies and in cooperation with external contractors, for which the Infrastructure Directorate is supposed to be responsible, but, of course, the Water Directorate is also here, and then it's all mixed and mixed, and we're waiting and waiting, and in the end, it's not all that much. At the hearings of both Minister Lebn and Minister Zajc, both Minister of the Environment and Space and you, Minister of Infrastructure, have already been asked about this issue by Minister Hotič, as well as Lithium, which is likely to be gone for a long time, and I have always received some positive answers that will move things forward. It all goes back to 2001. From 2001 to today, when we are in 2019, we are in fact almost where we were at the beginning. There's still no traffic in Upper Hotic and Lower Hotic. The lives of people, children, quality of life are still at risk, so the quality of life is worse, traffic in 8-9 000 cars per day in this region is large, pollution is also affecting buildings and so on. I want to know: Where are we now with these procedures and what is happening at the Water Directorate? What kind of interdepartmental cooperation is this? When's everything gonna move? When will the locals, the ladies in Upper Hotic and Lower Hotch see this carousel? When will the work begin? I also ask about what was already planned for the complete bypass for the Sava River and then connected to the Lithium bypass, which is supposed to take place in the tunnel variant under the Gradec hill: In particular, I am interested in and ask for as precise a response as possible: Where are we, and where are we going, and when are we going to get to the point where it's actually gonna start with parts? Above all, I ask the Minister of the Environment: What is the problem with the Water Directorate that the issuance of one consent lasts, say, a year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your question. I will reply in the same way as I replied earlier that it is difficult, given the procedures I am not taking, nor the Ministry of Infrastructure, to give the exact dates, when and until when, knowing that the road connection you are talking about is also necessary. The fact is that in a time of crisis, this was in 2013, 2014 and then also in 2014 and 2015, with the Law on the implementation of the budget, so to speak, all investment works in state roads stopped. The preparation of the dossier continued in 2017. There were commissioned professional foundations at the level of the conceptual design, study variants of the pre-investment design and environmental report. The public dissemination of the study of variants or pre-investment design with the proposal of the most appropriate variant and environmental report took place last June, which is June 2018. Comments were drawn up and published in public at the end of August 2018. The environmental report has not yet received a positive opinion on the appropriateness of the environmental report. The opinions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Culture were positive and the opinions of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for the Protection of the Nature and Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water were negative. A positive opinion of the Directorate in question on this environmental report is not expected until the approval of the hydrological-hydraulic study by the Directorate for Water mentioned above is confirmed. Following the approval of the proposal, the most appropriate option will be able to approach everything that needs to be done further, namely to develop more detailed professional foundations at the level of the idea project, which will serve as the basis for the final phase of placement into space. Following the adoption of the State Spatial Plan Regulation, it will be possible to accede to the preparation of the construction documents of the projects for implementation and start-up of land acquisition. It's hard, but it's really hard for me to tell you how to start construction. However, I sincerely wish that things were going faster, even on this particular case.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Minister Simon Zajc has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u166	The secretary said it very well, so I won't say it again. I'm going to be more concerned with the Water Directorate. A few of these hydrological-hydraulic studies have been gathered at the Directorate, for which reviews need to be made, so we decided a few months ago to put this out and do it now. For this case it was made and already two months ago the manufacturer of the hydrological-hydraulic study was invited to supplement. Now we're waiting, I think his deadline just expired this weekend, but I don't have any information yet, whether we got it or not. When this addition to this study comes, then we'll move on. I hope that it will follow this plan, as the Minister has told me before.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u167	Thank you very much. You have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Chairman. Of course, I must thank both ministers for the answers. They're somehow more or less always the same. I have to say that I do not invent myself but I do not bother here and ask such questions, but the issue is actually so critical and it has been lingering for so many years, but we are in fact where we have been. People are, in fact, many people live there, including the congregation very much, and with me I am disappointed. In fact, we want one move once. And again and again the space regulators and the Water and Study Directorate and these external contractors – I think this could be done a little faster. Or say, there won't be a bypass, we'll work somewhere else. He won't. There are a lot of these promises, there are also representatives of the Infrastructure Directorate in Hotič themselves, they explain to people there, yeah, because they will, somehow, comfort them and we will go back the same way. It was said that the Savo River bypasses cannot be on the whole route due to hydropower plants, that once they will be hydropower plants, that there will be a dam for the secondary hydroelectric power plant, and that Natura 2000 toads and I don't know what. Now these hydro power plants are nowhere and they won't be out of sight for long. I'm also surprised that you can't fit into the space of a road, even though we know that someday there will be a dam or a hydroelectric power plant. I think there's a lot to be done if you wanted to. And yet again, I ask: Is there any other option, or is there an option that this road would go all the way to this tunnel, which is also supposed to be in the clouds somewhere, I don't know when, even though it might have been a long time ago? What's going on in Lower Hotic, where, despite the money provided, there's still no starting point in regulating the intersection?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u170	Actually, I don't know what to say about what I said before. I can say that I fully agree with what you have said. Believe me, my desire as Minister of Infrastructure is to make these procedures run faster. But just so that I don't make empty promises, as mentioned, from me, until all the documents that are needed are really obtained, no one in this room will hear the dates when we start construction. I believe, and we have talked about this several times during the coalition, as well as with Minister Rabbit, that we are aware that certain things need to be changed, speeded up, while realizing that environmental protection is important. We can't just swing around here with our hand and say, "That sucks." But even if I did, things could be done faster. But once again, I don't do them, I don't do them, and my associates don't do them. Once we have confirmed our agreement, the environmental report I spoke about earlier will be able to take place. Now that we have just one set of different variants, a number of studies have been made, probably multiple variants have been made, just not each one being completed or made to the extent that it is possible to build. So once again we are still working on the one for which we have obtained this environmental report. And I hope, I want to say to someone else that we're about to make a dot here, and we can really give people what they deserve. Once again, I would like to point out that I do not share Slovenia or people in first-class and second-class. We have very similar problems in all areas of Slovenia. All I can do is appeal and ask for understanding. All the things that have not been done in the last 10 years are still uncorrected in this short period of eight months.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Minister, you too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u172	Maybe just what I said. We have detected that things are gathering on the DRSV, and that's why we've approved that we put out reviews to do it to speed it up. We have similar problems on Ars, where we are now working on reorganisation. But you need to know that now it's coming together, that the cycle has started to make a huge investment. Maybe just for a little while about the U.S.S.V. opinion. It follows from the opinion that additional mitigation measures for amphibians should also be provided for in the eastern section of the road. At least two approaches for amphibians, including protective fences, should be planned at this section in accordance with the request of the ZRSVN. It is also required that an expert on amphibians be involved in the further planning and implementation of the pet welfare measures. This will be taken into account, and I think this is confirmed. This part will be taken into account, now we are waiting only for the reaction of the manufacturer of the hydrological-hydraulic study, then also in that part it will be possible to continue in the environmental report. I hope this happens as soon as possible. It was, I think, the 14th.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u174	Thank you for your word. Thank you again for both your answers. Besides, I didn't get everything. I didn't get an answer for Lower Hotch. Unfortunately, now it's time for that too, and there's still nothing going on there. I cannot do anything at all, for on behalf of all living people there and also of all who are driving, we drive daily to Ljubljana from all over Savlje on such a dangerous, so narrow savova road, which is already already quite long and poor, otherwise with some adjustments I have to say, which have been in recent years, I cannot do anything to make this procedural proposal, that a broader discussion on this subject will be held at the next meeting, on the basis of the answers of both ministers, and that we will see if anything moves forward, given the promises that this agreement will also be environmental or watery, that the procedures will continue. I suggest that this be discussed in a broader way, because the dissatisfaction of the people and of all the thousands of drivers who travel there daily, especially by trucks or buses, because it is such a feat that it is very dangerous, even people can't walk there, I mean, even walk safely along the road. It is totally unacceptable to watch children move between these trucks in the morning and afternoon. I mean, this is a real disaster. It is also in Lower Hotič, where this work is still not started, i.e. the crossing for Vache, and the arrangement of the bus stop and everything else. In short, there are so many problems at this section, so many problems that we really need to talk about them. It should also be said that people or civil initiatives have been predicting the closure of this road for some time. I won't be surprised if this actually happens, because this discontent, this anger, has reached that level when there's nothing left to help. I also wanted to ask, and I will probably then, in the general debate and at the next session, if this is voted, how many circuits in Slovenia have already been made to start the proceedings since 2001. Let's just say that I would be very interested, because we know that a lot of things have happened, have been done, but the procedures have started much later than this unfortunate bypass in Hotic. Also, since this railway is also connected to the future Lithium Oblast, which is also in the clouds and the city of Lithium is very burdened by this traffic across the same bridge, then they would connect it all together. Above all, through interdepartmental coordination between ministries [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 18 June 2019, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Monika Gregorčič will raise an oral question to Health Minister Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, about two weeks ago, the news was that the National Institute for Public Health data on the number of waiting patients were wrong, initially for 20,000 patients, and a few days later it was reported that no more than 55,000 patients were included in the waiting lists. The National Institute for Public Health argued that patients were not injured because of incorrect data, but it is obvious that the Institute did not have any appropriate control mechanisms for data capture. Dear Minister, here I can welcome your immediate reaction and the publicly expressed determination or promise to find out the real situation and the causes of the mistakes. I hope that there will also be accountability and appropriate measures, including those that are not too pleasant and popular. That's why I'm asking you: What are your findings so far? How has a similar error occurred in the reporting of the number of waiting patients, and who will be responsible? The second part of my question is related to the content of waiting lists. If we are now to believe that data from the National Institute for Public Health are correct for April, the figures in this data are unfortunately inexcusable. A total of 182 thousand patients are listed on this waiting list, which means a 5% increase according to data from the previous year. Weak 80,000 patients are waiting for a first review, which is about 1.5% reduction compared to last year, but for the first intervention or follow-up service waiting for good 102 000 patients, which is an 11% increase according to data from the previous year. You probably agree that this is an extremely disturbing information. You know these numbers for sure, so I think you agree that this is really one worrying information that puts the patient's health system on wheels, and then somehow he can't provide it professionally. That's why I'm asking you: Since a €10 million budget rebalancing project for the reduction of waiting periods was allocated to the 2019 budget, what specific measures are you planning or are already in place to ensure that patients receive adequate medical care in advance or on time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. Thank you for the question, honourable Member. First, an explanation for the first part. For the first time, I was informed that something with the data was wrong, by the National Institute on 17 May this year, with a letter received from the Institute, which said in a report that they had found that there were deviations in the data from the previous situation in the past months. This letter was followed by a number of letters, and I think that there were five of them, on the basis of which I reacted and also informed the public and the competent council of the National Institute to react immediately. An extraordinary meeting of the Council of the National Institute was convened. In fact, I expected the implementation and validation of the audit to determine or carry out the professional and business supervision of the e-procurement system, but did not accept or vote on this board of the institution. Therefore, immediately after that we resolved the three members of the board of the institution, appointed new members of the board of the institution to meet at the first meeting on Wednesday, an eight-day deadline was needed for the convening of a new meeting, where the representative of the Ministry of Health would insist on carrying out an audit to find out what went wrong. We need to find out the cause of these mistakes, that these problems will be resolved and that we will have the correct information. Responsibility is difficult to judge at this point, and the audit needs to show what actually went wrong. However, they are also responsible for the new data at the national institute where they have prepared this data. If we go to the other part of your question. Of course, at the Ministry, we are aware of the problems of waiting species. In fact, this is a key priority of this composition of the Ministry of Health – a project to reduce waiting periods. A number of measures are already under preparation, namely, a set of services, defined in the general agreement, allowing for the exceedance of the contractually agreed programme with the CFSP and a post-implementation payment. It is said that as many services as are available will be paid. Then, in public health institutions, the regular programme for 2019 increased to a total of 4 000 877 interventions, which will be further paid. Then, this year, we also focused on measures to control waiting species. You yourself mentioned the first specialist outpatient examinations. It is planned to raise the price of these services by 10 % in the event that the regular programme is exceeded and the payment of overruns of certain prospective programmes, in particular those with the longest waiting periods. Through analysis we have also defined five key areas where the longest unacceptable waiting periods are orthopaedic, dermatology, neurology, cardiology and rheumatology. All the measures we are preparing now are focused on these five areas. Then we started with the work of the so-called pilot project for the elimination of waiting species in our opinion in one of the most sensitive areas, this is an orthopaedic on the basis of which we are now preparing a comprehensive national project for the systematic resolution of waiting periods. On the basis of this pilot project, we will then upgrade activities for all other key areas. However, this is already happening, so we need to prepare all the measures during summer holidays and start their implementation, because there is no time to wait. Times are too long, and here we have to take a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Can I help you? No, no, no. You're satisfied with the answer. Then let's move on. The Magnificent Messenger. Dejan Kaloh will ask the Minister of Infrastructure of Mags an oral question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u180	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister Alenka Bratušek, we will not only talk about some Styria road, but about a very important infrastructure facility, this is, of course, Maribor Airport, but also about what dates I would like to ask you about. It is known that this non-creditable Chinese tenant is due on July 15th, after all two years of empty promises, even though he signed the contract for 15 years and promised new regular lines, some new development cycles. It all fell into the water. As a Mariborian, as a Štajerec, I come from a local environment, it is truly a bitter taste that we were once more stained by the city authorities and by the state. You probably agree that a functioning Maribor airport is still important for the development of the region as well as for the countries and that the country should also recognise this competitive advantage of the second largest airport in the country. It is now temporarily taking over the management of the Maribor airport by DRI Investment Management. You said publicly days ago that despite the fact that this did not ensure that the airport would also operate on 16 July. That's why I'm interested in: Since the DRI does not yet have an airport management licence, when will this procedure be completed to obtain the licence? You've been able to do that since July 15th? When, if you think about it, will a new call be made for a new concessionaire after this short-term intervention by the State? And the key question: How will you ensure that there will not be another bad, one non-creditable airport manager who will then say good-bye quickly? You have also been introduced to the State Spatial Plan, which does not provide for the deployment of the railway line to the airport in the airport area, which would of course be very important. Are you working on this issue with the Ministry of Environment and Space? Perhaps you can give us a time stamp on all these questions, both on the issue of the licence and on this spatial location. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u182	Thank you very much. It's a very topical question, where we're sort of tied to dates. Maybe one thing first. This lease doesn't expire on July 15, but on July 17th, when we got fired from the Ministry, it changes two days and nothing more. As you yourself have said, we have found after the resignation of this non-creditable partner, I very much agree with you, the only legal possibility that could have been achieved in such a short time. This is that the airport is temporarily operated by a company which is owned by a country of 100 % and which can drive this thing by the so-called in-house ratio. For now, it shows we're going to make it. As I am aware, today employees with DRI are expected to sign employment contracts. This is the first step towards getting, as you say, a license to manage the Maribor airport. This is absolutely a short-term solution. We anticipate that in a year or a maximum year and a half, we could make a call for a real new concessionaire, which, of course, will also have to give content to this airport. You mentioned the operating airport earlier. I'm going to say that for the last 25 years this airport has only been open, it's been worse. I believe we all want a functioning airport together, not just an airport that will be open for so many hours a day. In short, this airport also lives and performs its function. At the same time as this process, with which, by the way, there is little work to be done, my colleagues are working very hard at the Ministry to bring all these procedures down, and the process of changing the State Spatial Plan is also being followed. The holder of this procedure shall be the Ministry of Environment and Space. I am convinced that after successful licensing for the management of the airport by the DRI, this is our next task. More than 140 comments were made on this spatial plan. Here, of course, I expect mainly the support and assistance of the mayors from that end, who, so at least assured me, believe that this airport can indeed be a development opportunity for that end of Slovenia. Here, however, I find it difficult to say when and in what form this spatial plan could lead to an end. If we want the airport to remain international and operate normally, certain changes to the spatial plan will certainly be necessary. It is not necessarily that, in full, to the extent that it is now set up, but quite a few concrete changes will be needed by this spatial plan. However, how can we ensure that the next partner is more credible, and it is difficult to say that, except that we will place certain criteria in the concession tender, we will probably also check how many partners coming in already have experience with similar activities and more. Even on my last visit to China, I made it very clear to the Chinese side that we have one very bad experience with our airport tenant because he owns China. On our side, though, it is likely that when the contract was accepted, what was not the best thing to do. I have taken the decision to carry out a review of the search procedure for this partner for this contract as well and to determine whether, on our part, everything has been done and carried out in the Ministry as it should have been. However, our goal is certainly to keep the airport open at the moment. At least two reasons for that. One is that the development potential of the areas is greater; the other is not so negligible, but the fact that if we close the airport, more than 5 million European funds will have to be reimbursed. Of course, because the country will manage the airport, including costs, we estimate that around EUR 700 000.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr Member, please choose a word to complete the request for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u184	Thank you, Chairman. Madam Minister, I have listened very carefully, thank you for the answers that you will be trying to find a new concessionaire within a year, a credible partner. Clearly, the criteria are those; and less listening to some local authorities who are no longer on the political scene, that is my proposal. And that the new concessionaire will develop the airport in accordance with the already adopted development documents and guidelines of the country, which have already been placed, as well as by listening to the local population, to the local community and to our Styrian economy. Since you spoke earlier about this literal house of spirits, only that citizens imagine little, less than 2 000 700 passengers at an annual level, 200 tons of cargo, are probably worth more than some truly operational airports. Now I have two more questions for you: In fact, how will you cooperate with the outgoing tenant of Aerodrome Maribor at the Ministry, as it remains the owner of certain important ownership infrastructures and land, so that there will be no additional short contacts here? How are you going to steer this? And also a key issue in the context of coherent regional development, that even in the area of infrastructure, everything in our country is not centralised: How will you establish equal conditions between these airports? We are talking about the Portorož Aerodrome, and the Ljubljana airport now operated by Fraport Slovenia, also profitablely unlike the Maribor airport, where this tenant has produced two million losses, but still these two airports receive certain financial support from the State. How will you balance this, Madam Minister, that all these entities will be treated equally?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u186	One more time, that's exactly the way it is. We will now have to temporarily ensure the management of the airport by the State or DRI, which is owned by a hundred percent of the country; then it is necessary to provide spatial documents so that the new concessionaire knows what he can do there and then tender a concession and find a credible partner. As far as the land is concerned, I can say that we have a service on the import roads that is otherwise payable for the airport to function. This is how they agreed with this Chinese tenant, and I don't think 20 thousand euros a year, so we don't need to just operate an airport of land owned by a Chinese tenant. The airport can operate with these services. However, part of the parking lot is already owned by the Republic of Slovenia and belongs to the airport infrastructure. As far as equal treatment of all three airports is concerned, I would not say that we are treating them equally. The problem is that at the Maribor airport, as you yourself said, there is no one who is supposed to serve them — whether it is cargo or passengers. The concessionaire will have to come up with a vision of what he will do with this airport and what he, as a new operator, can provide him. And here we will have to be very careful that the story, the bad practice, does not repeat itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u188	Presidents, I propose that the Minister's response be also discussed in general, as it is very important to clarify if this government really thinks through coherent regional development. This debate is important for the local population, for Styrians, so that they will not be tragically raised again, because in the hypothetical, God forbid, the closure of the airport would no longer be possible for helicopter rescue or for protection against hail. I think that such a debate on the responses of the honourable Minister is more than strictly desirable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 18 June 2019, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Jernej Vrtovec will raise an oral question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertonclj, who is absent today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u190	Thank you very much, chairman. I'd like to ask the Minister of Finance about the sale of the Bank. The President of the Government recently estimated that the Slovenian State Holding should consider whether or not Abanka could be worth selling without any empirical evidence, facts and so on. The thoughts about the sale of the Bank and the calls to stop the sale process could also be heard from other coalition parties and again the problem arises. We sell a certain thing for four, five years; then we get to the finish line before crossing the finish line, we decide as children – no, so far we're just joking; and we turn our car back. What is the final epilogue of such frauds? In particular, the fact that in the end we're just going to have to sell Abanko and we're going to get a lot less for her than we would if we decided to sell it seriously. In particular, this government has been in power for six months and could have stopped the procedures for the sale of the Bank long before the call for tenders was made. Although there is no minister, he will answer this question next month because, as the latest indications show, we will be able to witness the sale of the Bank. I want to know: What does the Minister of Finance have to say about stopping the sale of the Bank? In the opinion of the Minister, what impact does such statements by the Prime Minister have on the sale of any company itself?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Your request will be included in the next meeting and you will receive an oral response. Furthermore, Ambassador Franz Kramar will raise an oral question to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Chairman. Honourable Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Aleksandra Pivec. Overcrowding caused irreparable damage, reaching such an extent that it was a natural disaster. This was also confirmed by the decision of the Government of 10. 1. 2019. The quantity of wood fell due to overcrowding from the three-year average in 2015-2017 when 2 million cubic metres fell to 740,000 cubic metres in 2018. The problem is particularly pronounced in Gorenjska. Since forest owners, in addition to the restocking of the population of subscribers, have also been affected by the catch, such as the acorns, they will not have income from forests for another 50 years, so they need to be assisted by concrete measures. The State must respond and ensure that forests are as well repaired as possible on the one hand, while on the other hand owners will receive financial assistance and fiscal relief. Many are convinced that, if we want to change this, there is no doubt that consideration should be given to amending the Law on additional measures to address the consequences of damage caused by the overcrowding of the population of subscribers. Indeed, practice has shown that the law at certain points is weak and needs to be finalized, including solutions to forest rehabilitation and to provide financial assistance to the owners of damaged forests. I want to know: What's your ministry's opinion on this? How do you assess the appropriateness of the law and where do you see room for improvement? I also have a few specific issues that have to do with the implementation of the law. Is the ministry considering the exemption of the payment of cadastral income also for areas that are being restored by natural rejuvenation? Does the Ministry think about continuing good practice, this is integrating forest rehabilitation into public works? Does the Ministry think that it would facilitate the construction and reconstruction of forest roads in a way that only the consent of the Slovenian Forestry Institute would be sufficient for them? Thank you very much for your answers!
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u194	Dear Vice President, honourable Member! Allow me to begin with a few concrete data which I have also obtained on this subject at the last meeting with foresters in Gorenjska. It is true that the data of the Institute for Forests are extremely worrying and show that it was from the beginning of the year to 28. 5. 2019 for sanitary treatment caused by damage to the basement by registered 174 000 592 cubic metres with sub-martials of the attacked igures. The quantity of wood recorded for sowing due to groundings is as high as in the same period in 2018, when the quantity by the end of May was 162 thousand 439 cubic metres. The highest recorded quantities of heifers for slicing due to the attack of the submarines were recorded in the Bled forestry area, namely 80 thousand 670 cubic metres, followed by the forest management area of Kočevje and the forestry area of Ljubljana. On average, the health section of the trees registered for attack by sub-martials in 2019 in all forestry areas is realized, 61 %. The fact is that several proposals have also been made to my mind and that we are already very specifically dealing with them;in relation to the amendment and additions to the Law on additional measures to remedy the consequences of the overcrowding of the population of subscribers. Therefore, the Act, which was adopted on 20 February 2018, provides for additional measures to remedy the effects of the restocking of the population of ground-dwellers as aid to affected forest owners. The law is used to remedy the effects of damage in forests due to natural conditions, if more than 400 thousand cubic metres of trees are to be cut or removed from the forest in a single calendar year. Due to the repeated catch in the forests, the Ministry has decided to supplement the law so that the correction of the traps will take place more quickly and will be more effective. The Ministry will explore all options for shortening the procedures for the adoption of forest management plans when they need to be restored early due to natural disasters. We have already begun these procedures. With the amendment of the law, we will also consider the possibility that the consensus necessary for the construction of forest roads, this is natural protection, water protection consent, and the documentation of the Slovenian Forestry Institute will be obtained as soon as possible. This will allow forest owners and forest operators to implement the decisions of the Slovenian Institute for Forests for Sanitation within the prescribed time limit. We have also been faced with an initiative and will explore the possibility of amending a law that will take into account the threshold of 400,000 cubic metres of sanitation not only in the current year, but also a year ago, as a similar story is repeated every year to affect forests mostly at the end of the year; and then the law applicable to a given year does not, of course, cover these procedures backwards. The enlargement of the last year would also make this possible. As regards financial assistance to forest owners, all forest owners have free advice from the Slovenian Forest Institute and all other services provided by the Institute as a public forestry service financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The rural development programme under sub-measure 8.4 – Forest damage prevention and recovery due to forest fires and natural disasters and catastrophic events is still available EUR 20.4 million for reforestation in damaged forests. In particular, we express concern that this measure is extremely poorly pumped. Despite the promotion and awareness of private forest owners, there are very few applications for this. As regards the cadastral event, it is, of course, within the competence of the Ministry of Finance; it is true that it is already taken into account in the methodology for the calculation of cadastral income, as it provides that the costs for forest land amount to 80% of market income and also include increased costs due to the natural catch in forests. This is already included in the calculation of the cadastral revenue.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u196	First of all, I'd say I'm very pleased with that answer. It gives someone hope that things are actually starting to move. It is important to be aware that small farmers have a bank, that is, what helps them in bad times, that they can live normally, that many of these small forest owners have lost their entire forests. The fact is that the buying-in price of wood on the market was low and that with this payment of wood some have barely been able to pay all the costs incurred by cutting. In this direction, I meant to discuss that there might be an option; but I did not know that there were another 20 million available from the measure for which I ask you to repeat it because it had slipped out of my mind. Very high expectations are from small people on the periphery to move things around.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Minister, is there anything else you'd like to add to your answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u198	Of course, I would like to repeat what you have asked for for a measure, and we can also give it in writing. It is true, however, that the problem is that Slovenia has an extremely fragmented forest structure. We are engaged with about 400,000 forest owners, and it is often true that this flow of information is also a problem that is not sufficiently informed. Many live abroad, do not even deal with their forests, so during this period we also appeal to all forest owners to carefully inspect their forests, as the consequences are that certain unscanned areas also have an enormous impact on the surrounding areas. At this point, the conditions for spreading the pitcher are extremely favourable. It's warmed up, there's no more wet weather, so this appeal to our owners, too, to be fixed as soon as possible and as quickly as possible. As far as the Rural Development Programme is concerned, Slovenia is one of the rare countries in the European Union, which also devotes an extremely large percentage of R & D resources to forest restoration. From this title, as it is said, €20.4 million for forest restoration, this is Sub-measure 8.4 – Preventing and repairing damage in forests due to forest fires, natural disasters and catastrophic events; and the funds are intended for recovery in the traps of damaged forests because of the purchase of orchards and also for the payment of labour costs and protection of young trees when forests are restored. We will also speed up further activities to promote these funds, informing the owners; however, all those who can help do so, please familiarise them with this measure, because it would not be appropriate for these funds to remain, but the damage in the forests is truly enormous.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Do you have the floor for a motion?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u200	That's all I'd ask if you could send this to me in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u201	I don't think there's any need for that kind of intervention. Ambassador Jožef Lenart will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal, an oral question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u202	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear guests, ministers, ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! Dear Mr Pikalo, Minister for Education, Science and Sport! The cost of kindergartens has become very high for municipalities on the periphery with a rise in public sector wages. Smaller municipalities in Lower Podravje have difficulty covering the high cost of kindergarten work, and some kindergartens are also very poorly occupied. The municipalities with already low budgets are becoming increasingly difficult to manage. The parishioners in my constituency are therefore of the opinion that the state should cover the costs of the work of the educator and the guardian or of the municipalities to increase the funds for the operation of kindergartens. We also have a proposal on the table for amendments to the Kindergarten Act. There was also an open public debate until last week. Among the reasons for the change are better supervision of kindergartens and the possibility of restricting private-owned kindergarten funds. The matter is understandable to some extent, but I cannot agree with your intervention to limit funds to kindergartens directly through the congregations. It is likely that congregations will reduce funds for private schooling. Then the matter goes on. If you have empty wards and vacant cities only in public kindergartens, look for reasons for bad behavior and poor quality of work in public kindergartens. Why do you think there are extra cities in public schools and not in private kindergartens that you intend to restrict? Why are some public schoolchildren, along with their principals, inflexible? And why do you allow management to drive them through outdated programs and management methods? I think there are also reasons that there are fewer parents to put children in public kindergartens. As a result, good younger and qualified staff, i.e. employees, unmotivated, work is uncreative and, of course, children are sentenced to the loss of their guardians. What will you do to modernise the management of kindergartens? Are you going to spend more money on the congregations or to cover the cost of working in kindergartens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u204	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, Mr Member and, of course, everyone, a very good day! Indeed, for some time now, this public debate has largely revolved around the financing of private kindergartens, although I must say that this is neither the original nor the second purpose of this new law. The original purpose is what we have all experienced together; and, of course, everyone who is in my place or any other place in the education and education system does not want to happen to anyone at any time. And that's that Kangaroo case. That's exactly the first and only purpose why we change the Kindergarten Act. The purpose was clear. We are particularly interested in child safety, quality of work, we are interested in preventing abuse, as we have witnessed. Thank you for having the media in this sense, that there are also some things that our inspectorate cannot detect, but they detect there, and then we can react as well. These were key levers, or thrusts, that we even took action to change the Kindergarten Law. We would like the children to be safer, we would like this done in such a way that there are no more marriages with some animations of these, the one, the third; but that it is clear that all preschool children are enrolled. In this way we also have control over them and, of course, what has been shown in the case of Kangaroos, that the inspectorate as a key authority also has all the instruments that it has to have in order to be able to control the quality and safety of children. Now, about what she was most about, in a way, the media story, that's funding. That is not true, and I have to categorically reject it here before the National Assembly, although it is possible to understand it from the media so much that we want it anyway – the words were very difficult, from destruction to limitation to what I don't know. Far from it. This initiative to change the financing of private kindergartens came from the municipalities and was not first submitted to the Ministry, but has been given several times. We have decided to listen to them, but only in public debate. Only in the public debate can we see; we can predict what the responses will be, but now we have also seen what the responses of parents, the congregations and so on are. On Thursday, I had a meeting with three associations of congregations, where, for the most part, we would support such a new solution, but it is not a uniform opinion. I must make this very clear that there is no uniform opinion on this. As far as the future arrangement for financing kindergartens is concerned, we will consider it further at the Ministry. There's no definitive solutions. We're not going to say it right this way. But I would like to stress something here in particular what you said. I can't agree with the fact that your programs in our kindergartens are obsolete. Public, concession-makers, those who are completely private, and those who are with the guardians, except for the guards at home, have all the kindergartens. The programme is defined and is also being renewed and in accordance with the latest teaching instructions and so on. To talk about our program being in kindergartens, after being recognised by the outside world as one of the best, obsolete or inflexible, I think it is wrong; and this can also be very nice to show. But as for the flexibility of the private, it is mainly because when someone can take someone into kindergarten, it is a slightly different story, and perhaps I will be happy to answer it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u205	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, do you have a request for a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I'm not gonna say I don't advocate that you try to ensure the safety of every preschool kid. And I can't say I don't believe in your good cause. But we expect you, as Minister of Education, to defend exactly the same opportunities for these children and these parents as we expect. And since the debate was quite gruesome, some 300 proposals were also made. Do you have any summary of these suggestions from your parents? I think it is very important that the public is involved through public debate then also in your decisions, which can have such a strong impact on our development and on our good education in kindergartens. With the said closure of private kindergartens, if it happens to you, it can also happen that congregational kindergartens, especially those in larger cities, will have a very tight space. Are we going to build then? Certain consequences may arise in these decisions. I wonder if that would happen: Would it not be even more expensive for the state and for the congregations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u208	Thank you very much for this addition and the opportunity to explain. Yes, you are right, because this matter is more complex than just funding, because you need to look ahead, you need to look at what someone in this ecosystem of public, public and concessional, private and so on, how the capacity is being filled, what demography tells us. Once again, this is the proposal of some, and I stress – some associations of the congregations. Yes, there have been many proposals, but we have not yet sorted them, but I can tell you that there have been more than 95% of the same objections. We will examine this very carefully because we have no intention of restricting anyone. One more thing, we understand the role that private people have played in the past when there was not enough room in public education. We understand this historic role very much in the past, when individuals in some way stepped in to help. This was also their role in the past. But it’s very interesting when you’re talking — and I’ve been talking and I’m going to talk — with the congregation association, how everyone sees their situation differently. Some see that they already have a lot of space in public education, but the law obliges them, because if the Ministry gives consent under Article 34 of the Kindergarten Act, then of course the municipality has to finance it, it has no option, it has to finance it. And the municipalities think that we are further burdening them with a budget that should not be required at all. That it is the original jurisdiction of the congregations that money, not for wages or for kindergartens, at least since we have this arrangement, has never come from the country, but only through the average comes from the congregations, because kindergartens are in municipal jurisdiction, but we are all more than clear here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The next question will be raised by Mrs Lidija Ivanuš, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Aleksandri Pivec, and Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Počivalska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! My question concerns the current issue of biomass processing. The stems of common hemp represent a by-product in the production of hemp seeds, and the stem of the stem has a similar chemical composition as wood, which is the basic raw material in papermaking. It is possible to isolate cellulose fibres for the most quality types of paper. The advantage of hemp over wood is in its rapid growth and exceptional resistance. All parts of the plant are useful, especially the trees that remain after harvesting in the fields and are usually too small or not used at all. Today, there are only about 5% of the world's production of cellulose fibres from one-year-old plants, such as hemp, flax, straw and so on; otherwise, wood prevails. The advantage of use is that it represents a lower energy consumption in the production of fibres that can be bleached with environmentally friendly chemicals such as oxygen, ozone, hydrogen peroxide. Hemp paper is resistant to ageing and maintains mechanical and chemical properties over time. One tonne of hemp replaces 12 trees, and it takes only 90 days for the plant to mature, and from it we can produce up to four times as much paper per hectare as the trees, which take up to 20 years to mature. Since the efficient use of natural resources is essential for the further development of green technology and circular economy, I think there is a great potential in this area. And as already described, hemp is an excellent raw material for the production of high-quality cellulose fibres for the production of paper. In Slovenia, unfortunately, we no longer have industrial production of cellulose, which was abolished years ago if we remember Goričany and VIPAP, so that paper producers import the necessary cellulose. I ask the Minister of Agriculture: What are you going to do to make it easier to obtain permits for the production of industrial hemp? I ask the Minister of Economy: How do you intend to encourage economic operators to start extracting fibre from biomass, which would allow paper to be produced, since such use of resources is crucial for the further development of green technology?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Would you like a word first, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u212	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll try to answer first, as far as hemp processing is concerned. In Slovenia hemp is allowed to be processed in accordance with the Regulation on conditions for obtaining authorisation for the cultivation of hemp and poppy, which was issued under Article 9 of the Law on the production and trafficking of illicit drugs. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. However, the varieties concerned must not exceed 0,2 % of the THC content. In Slovenia, it is allowed to grow hemp or mascara on sloping areas not less than 0.1 hectares, which has already been achieved by the 2004 initiative and amendment of the Regulation, from 0.3 hectares to 0.1 hectares or even reduced to 0.01 hectares for the organic production of hemp. Hemp can thus be grown for the purpose of producing seed for further propagation, for the production of food and drink, for the production of substances for cosmetic purposes, for the production of fibre and feed for animals and for other industrial purposes. The authorisation may be obtained by any holder of an agricultural holding or processor for cultivation solely on agricultural areas registered in the agricultural holding register. However, the application must be in accordance with the requirements of such procedures, including basic data, it must indicate the area of agricultural land for the cultivation of hemp or poppy, the variety of hemp or poppy, the definition of the purpose of production and other basic data, i.e. the quantity of seeds envisaged and the intended date of assembly. As far as data are concerned, from 2010 to 2018 we can see that there are significant fluctuations in the annual areas intended for cannabis, as well as the number of processors. Currently there are approximately 310 hectares and 424 registered hemp growers are registered. Data on its further use and processing at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, Food and Agriculture are not available; however, we estimate that the most hemp is being converted into hemp oil. As far as your question is concerned, what will we do in concrete terms; we have no more concrete initiatives to change the rules of procedure, nor do we record any interest of producers for such purposes, which would address us with any initiatives following the amendment of that regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you too.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u214	Dear President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Madam Members, thank you for asking. As part of the implementation of the Slovenian Smart Specialisation Strategy, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has established nine strategic development and innovation partnerships in nine priority areas. Each of the partnerships has drawn up action plans identifying focus areas that have identified the potential for enhanced investment in R & D. The areas identified by the Strategic Development and Innovation Partnerships have since been the starting point for the systematic investment of all the resources allocated by the Ministry to the R & D economy. The projects co-financed in the field of research and development must be linked to these identified areas. The SRIP, which operates in the circular economy, has identified five focus areas, and one of these areas is the area of functional materials. This is an area in several combinations and implementations, defining the use and use of cannabis or biomass for economic purposes. So at the Ministry we already have mechanisms that allow and support investment in research and development of products that include cannabis biomass. I am pleased that you have also pointed to this important area. I would like this to help identify the mechanisms that are already available and which would start allowing entrepreneurs to start using the development funds in this direction you mentioned in the question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Are you satisfied with the answer, Madam Ambassador? Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I would like to mention that, unfortunately, we no longer have industrial production with cellulose in Slovenia. Paper producers import cellulose from other countries, meaning that money flows back to other economies instead of staying in Slovenia. All the conditions are for us to change this by also producing industrial hemp. The latter is not only important for papermaking, but it has many other purposes, such as making fabrics, insulation, carpets, ropes, thread, invert panels, filling car seats, heat insulation houses and so on. Dear Minister, the country could help by co-financing the pilot equipment of the entire production line for the quality processing of raw biomass, which is huge but not used in Slovenia. According to the description, I'm interested in: What would you personally do to make the economy recognise industrial hemp as a plant that is universally useful in many areas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u218	Thank you for the supplementary question. I agree with you that you need to take a few steps forward here. I have already said that in practice we have defined the use of cannabis biomass within these SRIPs; and the SRIP circular economy represents one of the key partners within the framework of the Strategic Programme for Research and Development. This program is called the CEL. A circle. The aim is to exploit the potential of cascade use of biomass to develop advanced materials and products on a biological basis. For these purposes, an integrated value chain for the cascade biomass use has been established. The objective of this partnership is the CEL. The KROG, implemented from 2016 to 2020, is to link the local knowledge and competences of 26 partners, of which 17 companies, in the use of local renewable resources to better achieve and explore global business opportunities in emerging green solutions markets. The programme aims to develop new knowledge and technology throughout the cycle, from the fractionation of biomass, the use of components as raw materials and builders of various materials and final products to reuse, energy processing of final data. In any case, I believe that your initiative is such that it could also be at that crucial part; on the one hand, we must have cannabis production, where things will not move forward until we also organise the purchases of these crops on the other hand. And this will be if we end up with a finished product. Here are some of the problems that you mentioned, given that we no longer have those classic cellulose processing, but in the context of such developmental actions, the first steps are being taken to make progress in this area as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. The following is Mr Franz Jurša, who will raise a question to the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Stojan Tramte. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all, especially to the Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! Dearly respected, the summit of the migrant or refugee crisis has been experienced by Slovenia more than three years ago, to which it has responded, inter alia, by setting reception and accommodation centres for arrivals, including in Pomura. At the reception and accommodation centre in Lendava, the Office for the Supply and Integration of Migrants allocated 200 tents to migrants and refugees, which it had cleaned up in November 2017. The land where the tents were located is owned by Auto Krka. In 2015, this company entered into a lease agreement with the Ministry of the Interior, which was transferred to the Office for the Care and Integration of Migrants in 2017. Although tents are packed and no new refugee or migrant wave can be expected in Pomour for at least a short period of time, the lease agreement with that company shall be concluded for each month and shall be automatically extended for each subsequent one-month period. The country pays about 10 000 euros each month to keep the covered hall and the work of the land ready. Auto Krka, d. o. o., on the other hand, has never used and is not now used; while the municipality of Lendava wants to invest in the land and enable the development of the municipality. I want to know: What does the State still pay for buildings and parts of the land if it does not need them or does not use them?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary-General, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u222	Thank you very much for your words, thank you very much. And a nice hello! You've asked me a few questions here. I would just like to say that it is true that Auto Krka entered into a contract with the Ministry of the Interior in 2015, I think October 2015. The rental price at the time was around EUR 8 000 900, one annex was concluded in December 2015 and then another annex in February 2016, so the rent price rose to around EUR 9 000 800. This gave them a few more properties to rent than was the case in the basic contract. I hope that there will be no new migratory and refugee wave, so that these facilities, this land, would not be needed in the future. It is also true that it is 1. 6. This bond ratio has come to the Office for the Supply and Integration of Migrants; however, it concerns the use of this facility at these times for the storage of various articles. Above all, I would like to say that the recently President of the Government visited the municipality of Lendava, where he also spoke with the mayor of Lendava. Here we have also been given the task of rewinding this bond ratio, the need for this contract, so that we will soon get some results and measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Jurša, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u224	Because I have quite a few data available, but it's from the media. I don't know if this rent is going to go up, but it's not going down. It would be normal for me if we had something in store for us to negotiate as good negotiators and for the rent to go down. In February 2016, the Ministry of the Interior replied to municipal councillors in Lendava that the monthly rent was EUR 8 000 916. Three years later, in March 2019, the Office for the Care and Integration of Migrants, whose main task is the accommodation and care of various categories of migrants, presented to the media the information that for renting Car Krka, d.o.o., receives monthly from the country 9 000 816 euros. Auto Krka is expected to open a supply centre in this area, and we do not know when it will be. In July, the Minister of the Interior of the previous mandate answered the question of the costs of the accommodation centre and the full employment of the poor EUR 60 000, namely EUR 58 000 631. According to Auto Krka, d.o.o., from the beginning of December 2015 to 2019 it was paid to Auto Krka 466 thousand euros, which is 165 thousand more than they paid for the facility when they bought it. It is said that the country here is not too large and a good master.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u225	Thank you. Mr. Tramt, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I've already told myself what was going on with these prices and the rent prices and what was contained in these annexes. The price was not automatically raised by the same item, but additional land and additional halls were leased. What was said in the media and what Car Krka gave and what various ministers said is unknown to me. The facts are as I told you, how many times has this price been raised? Last but not least, according to my information in February 2016, at this price, which you said, is EUR 9 000 816. It's the only information that is, and I think it's credible. At the same time, I told you that we will examine and act on the cost of renting these facilities and land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Aleš Šabedr. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u228	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister, allow me to ask you a few questions about the operation of hospitals in the Republic of Slovenia. I'm interested in three things. At the last regular meeting of the Government, you decided to report on the recovery course in public health institutions. You've reached a decision that I have before me regarding the rehabilitation of 15 public health institutions. I want to know some facts about this. Next thing I know, I'm interested. At the meeting of the Health Committee on 14 February this year, we had a point on the Strategy for the Development of Intensive Medicine in the Republic of Slovenia, which mainly touched two general hospitals, Brežica General Hospital and Ptuj General Hospital. And I'm interested in a few things in this area. And the third thing. I listened attentively and read the media records at the last peak of the coalition in Brdo, where, like almost every year, it was said that pensions and in particular the health priority system of this government. You yourself have announced the law on the management and management of public health institutions. So, Minister, allow me to ask you a few questions: Firstly, with regard to rehabilitation in public health institutions, how do we comment on the work of public institutions? Are you satisfied with the effects and why, even on the basis of this third, regarding new financial resources in health care? What are the priorities? Will you devote more resources to this area or will you work more meaningfully? Not like your predecessor, who in public health institutions was primarily money-throwing, but some concrete effects were not. Secondly, as regards the strategy for the development of intensive medicine, I am interested because we have adopted certain conclusions which touch the general hospitals Brežica and Ptuj: Will these conclusions be implemented by the end of 2019? What's this all about? Unfortunately, it is already happening, at least in Posavje, that for example the Municipality of Brežica instead of the State as the owner of Brežice General Hospital makes its own funds available through its municipal budget to purchase certain facilities that the general hospital or its employees urgently need for their operations. In the general hospital, they say that if the state does not help, they ask for the help of local communities. I hope, Minister, that it is not your forecast to operate in the coming years that you will leave the hospitals to the local communities because the local communities have no money for this. I want to know: How pleased are you with the process of rehabilitation in public health institutions? How and when will the Strategy for the Development of Intensive Medicine be adopted in the Republic of Slovenia? What does the Law on the Management and Management of Public Health Institutions provide? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u230	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Thank you for your questions, Mr. Ambassador. Dear Members and Members! In fact, the operation of hospitals is influenced by several factors, including operating conditions, which are enabled by the payer, this is the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The business conditions improved in 2019, although the health service providers were provided with around 5% of the annual increase in health service prices due to the coverage of the financial effects of trade union negotiations. In addition, a material cost valorisation of approximately 2.1 % of the health service price was also carried out in 2019. In addition to the active implementation of rehabilitation in 15 of the 26 hospitals, these measures have had a favourable impact on the operation of hospitals in 2019; I am talking about the first three months of 2019. Between January and March, hospitals reported operating in excess of income over a total of €5 million, €190 thousand 164, representing on average 1.37% of total revenue. During the same period last year, i.e. in 2018, hospitals recorded an over-expenditure of EUR 14 million 102 000 612, representing more than 4 % of the revenues of all hospitals. Compared to last year's first three months, there was a 63% reduction in hospital losses. The general arrangement relating to price increases was applied by 1. 3. 2019, so we expect the bulk of these measures to show up in the operations of hospitals in the coming months. At the end of August, we will have at the Ministry of Health an assessment of the first half of this year. This data for the first half of the year will provide a better basis for the evaluation of hospital operations in 2019. Nevertheless, a period of three months is relatively short to predict with certainty what the outcome will be. Of course, we will continue with the remedial measures. All hospital management has also prepared additions to their recovery programmes, which already show the results of improvements in operations. Of course, we know that hospital rehabilitation is a multi-year process and cannot be completed within one year. I must say, in the first three months, the vast majority of hospitals show planning results. There are only two hospitals that are under expectations or under plans, the Šempeter Hospital at Gorica and the Kranj maternity hospital. All other hospitals are on schedule or even beyond the expected plans. As regards the use of finance for the period 2020 and 2021; at the last coalition summit you mentioned, the debate was on the resources available to the Health Insurance Office in 2020 and 2021. An additional consumption of 265 million for 2020 is foreseen and about 205 million for 2021. There's not a cut of that consumption by the ZZZ yet. The latest information I received from their management is that they will prepare a proposal or a basis for a general agreement for the following year. According to their information, about half will go for so-called permanent items in the general arrangement and the hospital absence, the payment of specializations and other things. The second part should also go for action in the field of waiting species. It is not foreseen from this budget and there is no basis for ensuring the liquidity of hospitals, this is part of the budget of the Ministry of Health. For a specific case when you asked me about Brežica Hospital, of course, the state is the founder and also the hospital manager, so it is we who have to provide the funds; and not the local community. But for a specific case, I don't know, I'm going to ask myself, and I'm going to tell you where the problems at Brežica Hospital are at the moment to provide expensive medical equipment, if I understand you correctly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u231	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Member, do you have a request to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u232	Thank you, Minister, for the very correct answers. However, at your last part regarding Brežice General Hospital, I would like to tell you what we have accepted on this Committee: the Health Committee invites your Ministry to provide in 2019 the means to complete the construction of the facility above the General Hospital’s Emergency Centre and the Emergency Centre of Ptuj. But at least for Brežica General Hospital, the more I look at the financial plans, there is no money in the budget. Here is in particular the question, or appeal, that what we conclude at the meetings of the Committees in the National Assembly, also through the executive branch of the Authority, in a particular case through the Ministry of Health, is also being realized. Why am I saying this? If we realize certain conclusions concerning local communities, then there is no more pressure on the local community from local hospital management, if the state does not help us, then you are mayors, in the particular case of Podravja, especially Posavja, those who fear that those who will end up paying either for individual devices or for something else. Here I really hope you will review these conclusions. Perhaps a supplementary question: How does the Intensive Medicine Strategy show? As we have also adopted here the conclusion to take into account the arguments in the preparation of this strategy. And to conclude, Minister-respected, you said that the law on the management and management of public health institutions should once see the light of the world, but there is no such law in the normative programme of the work of the Government for 2019 and the first half of 2020. And maybe just on schedule, what's your timetable for adopting this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u234	If we go in line, on some of your questions I will be able to tell you that we will, of course, provide you with the answers in the shortest possible time. As far as providing investments in emergency medicine is concerned, you mentioned two locations, Brežice and Ptuj. With regard to the Ptuj Emergency Centre, I can tell you that a financial structure has been drawn up, where there is still 1.7 million Euros to be provided in the next budget period. The rest is provided by the Ministry, as well as by local communities and economies, and donations from the economy have been collected for this purpose. For a total investment of around 5 million, it will be necessary to provide these missing €1.7 million. As far as Brežice is concerned, I'm afraid I can't answer your question right now, so we're going to provide you with the data. However, with regard to the law on the management of public health institutions, I can tell you that this is one of the seven legislative priorities we have at the Ministry. The deadline for the drafting of the law and the adoption is this year, 2019. However, I also owe you an explanation or reply regarding the strategy which was adopted on the Health Committee in February, so that I will provide you with this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u235	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister of Environment and Space for Mr Simon Zajc a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. Salonit Anhovo is a major environmental and health problem in the Channel Valley. In the past, it has already caused 2,000,500 asbestos patients and the prospect of many premature deaths in the future, as pointed out by Eko Anhovo. The mining rights regulation, which also covers Anhovo, which has granted the cement plant the right to exploit limestone and lapore in total up to 38 million cubic metres or 2 million tonnes per year for the next 50 years, has worsened already. The first aspect is that this raw material is used to a large extent for the production of the clinker semi-product, which is the most demanding, most expensive and environmentally burdensome part of cement production, and then this semi-product is exported to the Italian cement mills, which are milled, added and sold further to the final product, that is cement. We pay the environmental price for this in Slovenia. The second problem is the height of the concession. Although Salonit recorded high profits – he paid 8 million euros in dividends last year, another year before 7 million euros – concession payments are ridiculously low: 18,000 euros for last year. For example, the Hit casino is located in the vicinity, which pays 350 000 euros or is expected to pay in this year and the Sokska Power Plants with concession payments; 504 000 700 euros in 2019. The third problem is benzene. Under the Regulation on emissions of substances into the air from stationary sources of pollution and the Regulation on emissions of substances into the air from cement-producing plants, a large-scale release of benzene, as we know, is possible for the cement industry. In line with the World Health Organisation guidelines, benzene should be placed in the first dangerous group with a limit of 0.1 milligrams per cubic metre and a restriction of mass flow; unfortunately, the current regime is not adapted to the needs of the population but to the wishes of industrial pollutants. The first Regulation allows 1 milligrams per cubic metre, 100 times higher than the health guidelines and the second Regulation 5 milligrams per cubic metre, five hundred times higher. My fourth point, however, is incineration and co-incineration of waste; both are subject to different values; both processes produce roughly the same emissions, which is a de facto circuit for larger emissions, even in the case of Anhova, as it should be. My question for you, Mr. Minister, is: Will you address these four problematic points and eliminate them?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u238	Thank you. Since I did not get the question more worked out in advance, I could not prepare myself well for all these questions. These cement regulations apply to all of Europe and there is nothing different about us. For benzene, it is specified that the Regulation on the emission of substances into air from cement-producing devices sets a limit of 1 mg benzene per cubic metre if the mass flow and the benzene mission is greater than 2.5 grams per hour. In this respect, the answer to me at Ars was that Salonite operates at concentrations of benzene which are significantly lower than the prescribed limit concentrations. These prescribed concentrations are prescribed throughout Europe. If I understood correctly, your question was whether we were thinking of lowering these concentrations for Slovenia. We have not yet thought about this because we have followed European rules in these regulations. With regard to the concession, I don't think we're giving it or determining how much they're paying, I should check it further. And if you agree, then I will give you a written answer to when the concession expires and who sets the height. Then I don't know what two other questions were. [[advertising from the hall]] Salonit Anhovo has permission to co-incinerate. It is co-incineration when the waste is used for some additional activity and not to remove the waste from the environment. In this case, different parameters are indeed prescribed for co-incineration. But this is also a copy of European legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish, you have a request to complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u240	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I'm just going to take a look at what are the problematic points that are primarily opening up through the incinerator issue in Anhovem, and you can answer me in writing if you want. The first problem, or first solution – also requires environmentally-aware inhabitants from that area – is the immediate change in the concession for Salonit Anhovo, which limits the amount of mining to a maximum of one million 500 thousand tonnes per year, as much as the cement plant actually needs to produce cement. This increased amount of excavation goes to the production of clinker as a semi-manufacturer, which is dirty production, energy waste production, and then this semi-manufactured product is exported to Italy. In fact, it's a pure colonial relationship. Italian cement plants, however, can plough Italian raw materials in the ground, while environmental pollution is occurring in us. In short, the amount of excavations, as now specified, should be limited to a million and 500 thousand tonnes per year. The second point is to raise the concessionary payments of the cement plant to a level proportionate to the permanent excavation of mineral substances; I would point out that these mineral substances are a non-renewable natural resource; and that this amount of concession becomes comparable to those of concession payers in other areas in the region. I used to refer to the Hit casino with a concessional annual payment of €350,000, and to the Sokska power plant, where payments move at half a million and so on. The third initiative is to really place benzene in the first dangerous group, in accordance with the World Health Organisation guidelines, independent of European standards; to be better than these European standards, and then to be appropriately released, specifically, to 0.1 milligrams per cubic metre, which is a hundred times lower than the current value, which is 1 milligrams per cubic metre. However, the fourth initiative is the equivalency of emission values for all harmful substances released from incineration plants and also from waste co-incineration plants, but not that both are subject to a separate regime.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u242	Yes, I agree, we will send you written answers to all these initiatives. If you'd given us this sooner, I could have given it to you today. I'm sorry I didn't know which way you were going.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u243	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question will be asked by the mag. Marko Pogačnik, Minister of Finance Andre Bertonclj, who is absent; I therefore call on the Member to state whether he wants a written or oral reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u244	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Since the Minister of Finance is a percentage, I suggest that you answer my question in writing. The question is, however, concerning the sale or non-sale of Abanka, d. d. In the last period, we have heard more information suggesting that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would decide not to sell Abanka. With the State aid granted by the Bank, Slovenia has entered into certain commitments with the European Commission. One of these commitments was to sell Abanka up to 30 % of the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. 6. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I'm asking the minister: What are the consequences if Slovenia decides not to sell the Banks? What punishment is followed by the European Commission? We know that Slovenia has signed some 40 commitments, compensatory measures which, since the signing of this undertaking, had to take account of Abank. Some of these commitments were the reduction of the balance sheet amount, the reduction, the ban on connections, the ban on acquisitions, the divestment of companies such as factoring and leasing; and all of this at the time of the economic crisis. If the Minister of Finance can reply: How much has this reduced the value of ABanka, d. d.? What does the non-selling of Abanka, d. d. mean for Slovenia in general? How much punishment will Abank have to pay for this and where will that money go? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u245	Thank you very much. As it is said, you will receive a reply in writing within 30 days. The next is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, who will question the Minister of Justice, Mrs Andreja Katič. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u246	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Minister, Minister, hello! I hope you agree with the statement that the rule of law exists or falls on the independence of the judiciary. In view of recent developments, or information coming from the judicial system, it appears that the latter is happening to us, and this is more than worrying. We have already talked about Judge Radonjić and all the matters surrounding him in the National Assembly, but there is no epilogue of this story. We do not know what is happening, nor do we know whether the judge, even though he warned of unacceptable pressures, was adequately protected. Whether we protect the people in this system, in this country, who draw attention to developments that do not fall within the framework of the rule of law, and are under pressure that should not be. Recently, however, a so-called new case in the field of prosecution has erupted. It is an unacceptable pressure on Prosecutor Pušnik, who, while under pressure, has said something far worse, that illegal listening is also happening to him, is listening to him. He also based this on concrete indications that people could not have access to information, other than through some hearings. On the Pušnik case, Mr Svetina, the Ombudsman, has already announced that they will be actively involved in research, or will look into what is going on in this case. I'm curious, Minister. What have you done so far within your powers? This means, in accordance with what legislation allows you. And I'm also interested in your opinion, because in public, I didn't see any response to this shocking information and information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u248	Thank you. Therefore, I do not have to respond to the forecast of exercising judicial control over the work of the District Attorney's Office and how many disciplinary proceedings have been conducted. With regard to the two specific cases mentioned above, we have already said with regard to the judge that information must be obtained from the Council of Justice, which is the body to which the judge can turn if he considers that any unacceptable pressure has been exerted against him. As far as the prosecution is concerned, we are also aware of this case, possible unacceptable pressure on the district attorney Pushnik. We have learned that, for personal reasons, he has resigned from the State Prosecutor's Office if, according to him, he is to be under a number of pressure to solve criminal cases against the suspect or accused Frank Kangler. Therefore, by letter dated 30 May 2019 from the State Prosecutor's Office and the State Prosecutor's Council, we have requested that both be identified by letter of 30 May 2019, as to the alleged evidence of pressure against the Attorney-General's Office, each of the powers and penalties provided for in the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office. 3. 6. 2019 We received a response from the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, which indicates that VDT has obtained a report from the Special Prosecutor's Office and ODT Maribor that none of these prosecutions have taken any covert investigation measures in the past or today. It states that the Ministry of Justice has been informed on alleged hearings on several occasions; and we have asked, myself, an adviser on security issues with us. In 2017, he interviewed Prosecutor Pushnik and also ODT Maribor informed him that there were no valid reasons why it was actually a wiretap. The last such security event took place on the 22nd and 24th. 5. which was notified to the Ministry of Justice 28. 5. 2019. In 2018, according to the VDT, Prosecutor Pušnik also addressed to the Attorney-General of the State a personal letter of the same contention to which the VDT replied. During the same year, Prosecutor Pushnik also carried out a similar system check, which was extended by a psychological test and was found to be able to perform the function without restriction. In 2016, a review of its work was carried out on the basis of an assessment of the State Prosecutor’s Office, or it fulfils the conditions for progress. It was found that these conditions met. In view of the recent writings of the Prosecutor to the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services, the VDT was also informed by the Investigation and Prosecution Department of the officials with special powers that they had opened the file and that they would start the investigation; and the VDT also provided the Special Section with documentation sent by Prosecutor Pušnik to the VDT. Like I said at the beginning, we sent 30. 5th question also on the State Prosecutor's Council, we are 12. 6. receiving an answer where the State Prosecutor’s Council says that it has dealt with 11 in our opinion. 6th in the 35th ordinary session. Following the examination of the material received, it was concluded that no measures provided for in the State Prosecutor's Act would be implemented at this stage in relation to the alleged pressures to be exerted by the State Prosecutor's Office. Since the Ministry of Justice has control over the work of the administration, substantive supervision has been exercised by the Supreme State Prosecutor’s Office, everyone has done his/her part of his/her responsibility. However, as far as certain indications are concerned, I believe that the Commission for the supervision of intelligence and security services, unfortunately I do not have this information, will respond to the part that you are probably most interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete your reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u250	Thank you so much for saying that. The Minister, even in kindergarten, will not convince the children that someone who turns to the Attorney General today will deny the matter, but if he was at that time in the position where these things happened, he is hypothetically also one of those who would threaten this independence of the prosecutor. It's funny to have someone answer that. Also, when we talk about hearings, whether performed by Sova or by the police, the easiest thing in the first phase is to deny everything in the first place until there is a broader study. It is unusual for the prosecutor to come forward after that, and he called when he made certain decisions in his work. In his work, he must be independent. And that's when the pressure started. He spoke literally about how people knew information that they could not know anywhere but simply by listening to him. You're saying you've done everything that the State Prosecutor's Council has done everything. I can tell you that it's interesting that he didn't even complain about the State Prosecutor's Council. You probably already know why. The answer itself actually tells us everything, given what they've accepted. And you still have a chance. It's not true that you used everything. You also have the possibility of disciplinary action to initiate the procedure. And if the minister were really that brave at this stage, he could also trigger this part that the law allows him to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u251	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u252	Thank you. Madam Members, I see that you are significantly better informed about the matter than I am. It is true that I know her from the media and from what is available to me. I see that you probably have more documents, which are some of the details that you've been citing to me that I haven't been familiar with. I'm going to trust the Attorney General with all the institute he has as the Attorney General's Attorney General is called the Attorney General's Office. You obviously don't believe him. I'm not just talking about one name, but I'm talking about the job as a whole. I will also believe in the State Prosecutor's Council. You obviously don't believe them. But I wouldn't want this comparison of who I can convince in kindergarten, who I don't. The competent authorities responsible for detecting various irregularities should do their utmost. However, in the framework of the powers that I myself thought I had at my disposal, we have made appropriate decisions, which I currently believe are correct, with the clarification of the State Attorney's Office, the Council of State. But you, who have more information, all the rest of you know better, believe more than anyone else, and once again encourage doubt in the Attorney General's Office, in the Attorney General's Office, even in the State Prosecutor's Council, which I believe but the assessment and will is yours to judge the credibility of one or another. [[…]] And I believe these institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Madam Members, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u254	Thank you for your word. Minister, I told the facts, not what I believe. But it is true that we are very different from what we believe in. For example, you believe in Harry Furlan. I don't believe in Harry Furlan. He was convicted at a hearing or before a committee on vascular resistors; he did not even know the law in the field of the prosecution, which is the basis for his work and so on. But let's just leave it. We are really different, so I would be very happy to have a public debate on this. I would like to ask the Minister, and above all, I expect him to take over all possible levers allowed by the law, and there are still a few things that allow you to get to the bottom of such matters. But as for the Commonwealth Council, I don't know why you're saying I don't trust him. I said that the prosecutor did not turn to them; and today I understand why not; also on the basis of their reply. If we continue to let the judiciary in this country sink in the sense that pressure is allowed on the decisions of judges, prosecutors, then of course you are on the side of those who are undermining the rule of law. We're not on the same side here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u255	Member of the Commission, I have not followed your procedural proposal. Did you say there was a debate? Then I apologize. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u256	Yeah, I gotta say, because you said that in public. Initially, it has been said that I want to discuss this; I hope that next time you will listen to me more carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u257	Thank you for further clarification, I apologized immediately. Sometimes I miss something too. I'm sorry again. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next is Mr Zvonko Černač, who will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Mr Alenka Bratušek and Minister of Environment and Space for Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u258	I am pleased to be present, especially Minister Alenka Bratušek and Minister Simon Zajc, to whom I refer the issue of regulating the modern road connection between Jelshani, Ilirsko Bistrica and the Ljubljana-Koper motorway. This link was placed in the completed motorway programme more than 20 years ago on the initiative of the then Member of the National Assembly. Fifteen years ago, procedures for the preparation of the State Spatial Plan were initiated, i.e. in 2004. Not only has this plan not been adopted to date, but there has been no study of variants in these fifteen years. In 2011, i.e. eight years ago, this initiative was complemented and this complementary initiative was presented to the public at that time with different corridor or route variants, which raised a lot of attention in the local communities concerned by this road. There has also been a major opposition to placement, which would infrastructurally occupy or devalue bibian and other conditions, particularly in the Pivska valley area. As a result, the congregation councils of all three congregations, Illyrian Bistrica, Postojna, and Pivka, met and agreed on this because they saw that the procedure would take some time to speed up the suburbs of these settlements. Illyrian Bistrica is already built, Pivka will start within a year and a half, let's hope, the first phase, the second phase below the Rooster. And with regard to the Oblast of Postojna or settlement of Rakitnik, Matanja Vas and Prestránek, the Protocol was signed on 23 January 2013. In 2011, the Municipality Council of Postojna, on the initiative of almost all the local communities concerned by this road, also adopted this direction in order to accelerate the construction and links between them. A while ago, on October 2nd, I asked the Minister a question and 30. The 11th Minister, where the Minister replied that they had speeded up spatial placement activities at the Ministry without delay. The former Minister Leben, however, replied that prior to the public opening of the study variants, approval of the pre-investment design by the Commission of the Ministry of Infrastructure should be obtained. This has not yet been done, although this study was done four years ago, this is in 2015. That's why I'm asking the Minister and the Minister: Where or what concrete actions are there to accelerate these activities with regard to the future modern road connection from Jelšan through Illyrian Bistrica to the Ljubljana-Koper motorway, which the Minister referred to in response to my written question? Did the Ministry of Infrastructure confirm the pre-investment design? And if she's not, why not? From October to this day, what has been done to accelerate the placement of the road into space?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak first, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u260	Thank you. I'm not going to repeat the procedure myself, because you've summarized it very well. I would rather answer the last question as to what has been done in this time of year to accelerate. Our ministry held a meeting with the thronged congregations in April this year. It was headed by our State Secretary in charge of space, Mr Prijon, with professional colleagues. At this meeting, it was agreed that the proposed final route in municipalities, except in Existing, was appropriate; only a few minor repairs were needed when the route was in contact with the inhabited areas. Corrections will be proposed by the municipalities themselves and the Ministry, in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure, will implement these corrections. Regarding the municipality of Postojna, however, they agreed at this meeting, led by Mr. Prijon, that the connection of the motorway to the connection with Croatia will be presented from the currently scheduled area several kilometres towards Hrušev in the west, and an additional, new connection of the highway north of Postojna, intended for Postojna.The professional services are currently preparing a revision of the agreed route. Once it is ready, it will be introduced to the mayors of the municipalities involved and, following their principled approval, will continue with the formal procedures for placing highway connections in the space.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u262	Since Minister Zajc has actually told us where the procedures are, I will only add to the pre-investment design. At this point, I don't have any information on whether we confirmed it or not at the Ministry, but given that certain things have not yet been resolved, I almost doubt that this pre-investment design has been made. Here, however, I would like to make it very clear that we are aware of the problem and that that is why we are also in our ministry or the directorate in order to facilitate people's lives along existing roads, we have limited transit traffic. I think that people are quite pleased with this step, but of course the next step is not from today to tomorrow, but in the long run also this new highway connection.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, would you like a request for a supplement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u264	The variant study is considered to be a pre-investment design and from the reply of former Minister Lebn to my question of 30. 11. It is clear that the study of variants was completed in 2015, i.e. four years ago, and that your commission at the Ministry of Infrastructure has not yet confirmed this study. The confirmation would also be a confirmation of the pre-investment design. But you had a meeting with the mayors of these municipalities this February. This meeting was attended by the mayor, I don't know where a new version was drawn from, mentioned by Minister Leben. At the time, the mayor of the Municipality of Postojna said: “For Postojna is the most appropriate route to break away from the existing highway between Hrušev and Razdrtym. We also proposed this with the Municipality of Ilirska Bistrica at the last meeting with the Minister, who promised us that they would examine it later and answer us within two months whether further assessments are even possible.” It's been two months since late April. It's been two months now. About some route that's not anywhere in any study variants. According to the study of variants, one route connected to Postojna is the most appropriate. From the point of view of migration, yes. But this route you spoke of today, Minister Zajc, between Khrushev and Raztrým, is nowhere. Even more, the decision of the municipal council, which has never been revoked in 2012, – I am talking about the decision of Postojna Municipality – speaks of the fact that none of the connections you mentioned, even the new one that was supposedly drawn to it by a flomastre, is appropriate. That's why I want to know: What about studying this new route? Where did this study come from, although we already have a study of variants that should only be confirmed in one way or another? Why are the ministries not working to speed up the traffic – as I mentioned in the introduction – given that this position is moving away and moving away – the links between these railways and thus ensuring better traffic flow on the route between the Ilirian Bistrica and the existing highway?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr Chernač, you know very well that in the field of transport infrastructure things cannot be regulated from today to tomorrow. You are one of the Members who, as Minister, also had an insight into these procedures. From where ideas for a new route, you yourself said – by the mayor and the mayor is a representative of the local communities. So the thing is that this was put on the table, all that was said was that we were going to look at it, but we said at the time that the question of how this would look economically justified at all. That's it. We meet with many mayors and I agree with you – every time, every time, new proposals can come to our table again and again. I believe that, along with the Ministry of Environment and Space, we will move things forward quickly. Once again, I would like to make it very clear that our government or the Slovenian Infrastructure Directorate has done what no one has hoped before us, namely, to limit transit along the existing road, to make life more bearable for citizens. And I also told the mayors myself that these things — and the mayors — are well aware of this — and such road connections cannot be made from today to tomorrow. Why are all the ministers so far, I'm gonna say, sleep or not, and that's gonna be hard for me to answer. It is certainly a project that is not a project from today to tomorrow, but quite demanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u267	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Are we done here? Mr. Blackach, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u268	I propose that we hold a debate on this issue at the next meeting. Not only is this a problem in the area of a particular region, but we have not received the answers to the questions I have been asking. With regard to this latter, Madam Minister, I must tell you that there has been limited traffic on this road, in my opinion, until the time of your government, and then relaxed and released because some reconstruction measures have been implemented in the meantime, and this would then be the basis for the release of this freight traffic, which you have now restricted in one part with June 1st, because the situation has become intolerable and impossible. But this situation will also not significantly improve with this partial measure. Slovenia is stopping in increasingly dense traffic on Slovenian roads and it would be necessary to look for solutions to deal with an increasingly pressing road problem in due course. It is nice to dream about the fast railway Danube-Ljubljana-Benekka, but we can postpone this dream for a few years because Slovenia is literally drowning in freight and other road transport. Slovenia is practically standing. And it will stop if it goes that way, more and more. According to my assessment, the National Assembly should urgently hold a debate on this and also on the measures to be taken as soon as possible so that the motorway does not become the worst-flowing transport vessel in this country. One of the reasons this is happening is the long-term placement in a space that lasts ten and more years, and at the end of the solutions that were planned 20 years ago, time falls and chooses, as we have seen in many cases in the past, the solutions that are bad and dearest. The Minister recently stated that the aim of this part of the road we are talking about is the Jelshane-Bistrica motorway, to place the existing motorway within this mandate or to adopt a State Spatial Plan within this mandate. Even if this is done, which I strongly doubt, this link is moving away for at least the next 20-25 years. She'll be gone sooner. The carriages were set up, proved to be a good solution, it would be necessary to speed up on the brewery, the Rooster, which is the second leg of this brewery, and the bypass in the Municipality of Postojna, which would relieve the settlements of Rakitnik, Matjenje Vas and Prestránek and thus allow normal flow on those parts which currently represent the narrowest throats. These solutions can be implemented within five to ten years, and if this does not happen, the traffic situation on this part will be so burdensome that it will no longer be bearable for the people who live there, not for the passengers who travel on these roads. So I think it would be right for the National Assembly to have a serious debate, especially since we have some documents in this country since 2015 and 2016, a transport development strategy and a national programme, and it would be necessary to look at how and in what timeline these things are actually being implemented. I think in a few years the timelines have been broken. So I propose once again that we discuss this at the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u269	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next question will be asked by Mr Sonibo Knezak, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Ksenia Klampfer, who is absent, is therefore asking the Member to state whether he wants a written or oral reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u270	Thank you, Madam President. On my question, I want the Minister to give me an oral answer at the next meeting. In his open letter to the Government and the parliamentary groups, the Slovenian pensioners' union presented proposals and requirements for improving the social situation of pensioners in Slovenia. They note that today's pension levels do not provide a decent life for most pensioners. Despite favourable economic conditions, their situation has not changed significantly, as pensions have long been uncoordinated due to the acceptance of Zuif. Pensioners have lost 319 million euros between 2011 and 2017 due to non-coordination of pensions – this is their estimate. The Slovenian pensioners' union requires and expects the following: that by 30 June 2020 the extraordinary harmonisation of pensions be abolished by 7.2% at the latest; that, by 30 November 2019, the extraordinary reconciliation of pensions of 50% of the money that pensioners have lost since 2011 due to non-coordination of pensions as determined by Zujf; that the annual allowance for 2020 should be fixed at two levels, that pension recipients receive up to 800 euros and that pension recipients receive more than 800 euros at the rate of 300 euros. The union also requires the annual allowance to be valorised each year by increasing the prices of living needs. It requires the Government to order a comprehensive analysis of the real value of pensions given in different periods and proposes changes to reduce inequalities between current and future pensioners. Finally, the Government accepts a basket of living needs, a service for the elderly plus 65, which should be a professional basis for the management of future policies in the field of social protection for pensioners. The data that we have about 280 thousand pensioners living below the poverty line is, of course, not proud of us either. That's why I'm asking Minister Ksenija Klampfer: How will the Ministry of Labour, the Family of Social Affairs and equal opportunities be defined in accordance with the requirements of the Pensions Union? What concrete measures does the Ministry intend to improve the social situation of pensioners, given that a reform of the pension system is being prepared? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u271	Thank you very much. As it is said, you will receive an answer at the next meeting. The next question will be asked by Mrs Mojca Žnidarič, Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncl, who is absent, and I also ask the Member to define a written or oral reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u272	Thank you for your word. I request an oral response at the next meeting. Family pension is a pension income belonging to a surviving family member after a deceased insured or pensioner. Children get the right to a family pension until the end of schooling, but at the latest until the age of 26. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the current arrangements for the taxation of the income of children on the basis of a family pension which, in my opinion, is criminal and even to some extent absurd. The fact that the financial administration’s accounts are given to children with family pensions who do not exceed the law of a certain censorship and were not previously bound to pay their income is the result of Article 64 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act, which deleted the then applicable Article 268 of the Tax Procedure Act. By deleting that Article, the legal basis for exemptions from the obligation to pay the income was deleted. Therefore, informational income calculations are now issued to all taxpayers with any income. I believe that the decision taken by the former Government and the legislator to delete this article has been taken to remove certain administrative obstacles and facilitate the procedure for taxpayers, but it seems unacceptable that the amendment to this law has led to my assessment of the harmful material consequences for a vulnerable group of people such as children. Children who receive a family pension have to pay the income if other parents have family members at the same time — which of course they are. The absurdity that I would like to point out is that if both parents lived, they would both have the right to general relief and one of them would claim a child as a dependent family member. It also seems unacceptable to me that the family pensions that children receive as a kind of compensation for surviving after a deceased parent are simply equivalent to other taxable incomes. That's why I'm asking the Minister: In order to eliminate the above-mentioned criminal taxation of this small group of vulnerable children who have suffered a tragic loss of parents, will you join in amending the Income Act to exempt their family pensions from taxation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u273	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Vojko Starović, who will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Klampfer, who's gone. That is why I also ask you, Mr Starović, to say whether you want a written or oral answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u274	I also want an oral response. Thank you, Madam President, for your word. My question to Minister Mag. Kseniya Klampfer is short, and therefore no less important. I have already asked in my parliamentary question in January this year when the Ministry of Labour will prepare a promised amendment to upgrade the pension system, which is currently unrestrained for many pensioners. It is unacceptable and unacceptable that people who have worked their entire lives and paid contributions to the pension register today cannot afford a safe and dignified age. Many of them live below the poverty line, not to mention high contributions to homes for the elderly, the burden of which usually extends to other family members. Pensions reflect contributions made by citizens from their income. The right to a pension became a special constitutionally protected right in 2004 which is recognised to an individual on the basis of the work of the past. Therefore, once again, I repeat that we need to ensure that pensioners deserve what they deserve and belong to them in all legislative frameworks. Dear Minister, the commitments we have entered into the coalition contract on the initiative of the SAB party are not just dead letters on paper for us. In the Sab party, we requested an increase in the rate of the percentage, making it possible for pensioners to do so and paying the annual allowance at two levels. And under these commitments, we have signed all coalition partners. It has been said that the promises we made to the voters will be fulfilled as early as January 1st this year, but unfortunately we are alone. In response to the question you have asked me, I quote: “The deadline for transmission of the regulation to regulate the content listed here is the first half of 2019 and the deadline for adoption by the Government is 9 May 2019.” As is known, this proposal has not yet been received in the Government. That's why I want to know: Why not? Why is there a delay in making decisions on such a pressing issue, while other things are being taken and carried out by quick procedures? What is the current situation and when can we finally expect amendments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u275	Thank you very much. You will receive an answer at the next meeting. The next is Mr Franz Breznik, who will ask the Environment and Space Minister Simon Zajc a question. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u276	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is addressed to the Minister for the Environment, it is linked, we can say, to a series of large fires, which are taking place in many hazardous waste and hazardous waste plants in Slovenia. We also had one of these fires in my environment, in the Slovenian Gorges in Lenart, April 14th and April 19th. Last month, the Minister of the Environment found that part of the waste from the area where it was burning had been removed and that it could continue its work. Minister, you were in Lenart, you looked at yourself, I think after the first fire, the first, the second, at the time, you were talking to our mayor of mag. Kramberger, including a representative of Solomon, you looked at that scene. I want to know: Have you initiated an audit of the environmental authorisation for this plant? I can assure you that at least part of the environmental permit cannot be confirmed for this plant, because in Lenart, the cleaning plant that this plant is supposed to be attached to, which is why it has also obtained an environmental permit — in addition to all aspects, if we leave it — has never worked. Even today it doesn't work well, with all the standards we have big problems. By the time it was somehow installed, a completely different hardware was installed. In Lenart, we have a large quantity of meteoric waters that have been taken to the cleaning plant, and the machine equipment they installed caused a complete error. And even for this company, this cleaning plant can't clean up all their garbage. To leave their standards, as far as labour legislation is concerned, in the fact that it is a disability company, that people in these municipal wastes are literally in an environment where they smell unbearablely, where rats and everything else are literally lifeless to dig and sort these wastes, which is also by some serious companies of the 21st century or in one quarter of the Industrial Revolution is totally unacceptable. In Lenart, we are not against closing ourselves up overnight, but I think you should seriously ask yourself – of course it is not your fault – whether you will make a revision of a number of such companies, as they have even come to an environmental permit. And the second part of my question is this. I also want to know: Will local self-government as a municipality finally be able to become a party in the process of issuing such environmental permits? As we know, we had major problems as a local community in the Slovenian Gorica, and even in this company, when hazardous waste was involved, and especially when they started driving municipal waste to Lenart, they were not a party to the environmental permit process. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u278	Thank you. True, I was at Lenart on a field tour of this fire. Maybe it's a little too bad, 'cause a few hours after I was there, it burned again. As a matter of fact, the revision of the issue of an environmental permit cannot be done at all, according to legislation. But every water opens when the legislation changes, and we change it this year. It is precisely because of the situations that have taken place here in Lenart that we have drawn up a new regulation that lays down rules or requires how such facilities must operate in terms of fire safety. Which means that, after the new adoption of this Regulation, it will be determined what fire walls must have, what firefighters, how they must be with the water, is said to be under what pressure, how many sides, how big can they buy, how big can they buy, how much they must be from the building away if they do not have a fire wall if they have to. In short, we will now determine all of this. And once this is determined, the OVDs should be opened for all of them, which means that we will open the OVD this year to all of these objects, such as Lenart, as soon as we adopt legislation. In addition to the Environmental Protection Act, where we regulate data legislation, we already have two regulations. One is about the storage of fuel waste in the open, where we will determine it, but the other is about waste packaging. Then all of this will open up, including the one in Lenart, and if she can't meet these conditions, she'll have to close. This seems to me the best way — not to save every single person. Because, as you said, I can't just take it away from the OVD, but in this way we can make such conditions that have never existed before, but it has shown itself mainly because of these fires that we need them, and we will put them in place. Those companies that cannot adapt will no longer be able to carry out their activities in such facilities. As for the entry of municipalities into procedures, but we also now have an open CSR, we will talk about it and we can put it in if there is such a general wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u280	Thanks for the first two, but I'd like to keep going. I can only remind you, maybe you didn't notice everything when you were in Lenart, I can tell you that in the vicinity of this industrial zone, Mercator's food shop, that in the immediate vicinity of the inn, the inn, that only across the road, now on Lentherma's mountain, there was a company that produced juices and syrups, so that the whole type of food processing industry was involved. There's a company in the middle of this center. In addition to all environmental standards, especially those fire-fighting ones, you have talked about, there is still the biggest problem, the biggest criticism of the Lenart people is that smell, which is of course subjective nature. Not to explain that, despite the fact that the only investment that this company has made in the last 15 years – or how long it has been in Lenart, now under another name – was that they have put up some metal fences that are slightly higher, because sometimes municipal waste was carried all over Lenart. That's what it was. I can also tell you that on the other side of Lenart, we have a company called Saubermacher, which was a pioneer in waste management. The irony is that Lenart, who is now most unfortunately known by this company, was already the end of the previous system in the former Yugoslavia first place, which together with the Austrian-Slovenian partner company placed serious waste sorting and was, we can say, a pioneer in this area. This company was a few years ago when they were looking for a new location, they literally said, we did not belong in this industrial zone, and they put themselves in the second place of Lenart the ideal place where they did not disturb. And because this company has, we could say, model production, people somehow accepted it as their own. So Lenarts don't defend ourselves against waste, but we defend ourselves against such policies of some company that brutally exploits its people, who are disabled, who exploits systems, environmental permits, not to explain that they have invested in their production. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u281	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You're out of time. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u282	The stench is a subjective thing. They're law-abiding as far as the smell is concerned, we're basically pretty well-defined. Where I see a lot of room for improvement, then it's control. My plan is that as we put in place new rules on waste storage now, it will be improved – we are actually starting now, but to improve control by then. Because if this control works, such facilities will also make sure that it doesn't smell out. You yourself mentioned that you know objects where such processing is carried out, but it is not disruptive to the environment — so it is possible. Where the state may fail, this is exactly the kind of control we need to correct and we are working on it. But it's just a procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, would you like a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u284	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would like to propose a public debate on this subject. Of course, I have a number of questions and substantiations for the Minister. Time doesn't allow that. I can tell you that the problem is also outdated machines. So this is a relatively very old machine, where there's a lot of physical work. I believe that technology has progressed in this area as well. When you see working procedures in this company, we ask ourselves if the civilisation in Lenart has at least set foot in this company. These are, I could say, 19th-century working procedures, from the first industrial revolution, literally what it looks like. The company is in front of Saubermacher – but I do not want to favour, I think there is still a whole range of top-notch Slovenian companies dealing with waste management. But I think there must also be standards for machinery, as regards the quality of sorting, where automation must take on a large part certain procedures, including some guidance in the issue of environmental permits. That's the problem, too. There is also a major problem, not just the over-storage of these wastes. In this company, in these fires, we only know about the first offence, and it was over-storage of waste. I can also tell you that when the company came to Lenart years ago, then under the name of Paper Service, the paper service of course pressed waste paper and collected waste paper. In the course of the night, an environmental permit was issued from Ljubljana from your Ministry, and Lenart began to drive from a large part of Slovenia, I can say promising work, and I do not know, continue, from Celje, a whole range of mixed municipal waste. So the people of this just overnight, we can say, literally through the stench, began to find that something unusual was happening in the company of that time, then under the name of Paper Service, which they were not even informed about. [[…]] And here I think, dear colleagues and colleagues, I hope that you will support me in the public debate, that we also open up the topic that the local community must be one of those factors in issuing the environmental permit that is a party to the procedure. I can't respect civil society, but some civil society of four village specialists from Ljubljana will be difficult to decide, excuse me – I apologize – I may have used a harsh word – let's say in Lithuania or Lenart, or we Stajerci in Ljubljana for a company. [[…]] But I think the local community will know best what the area is, and must be a party to the process. I appeal to you, Minister, to put this part in. I think there was at least a partial promise on your part when you visited Lenart, but at least the mayor somehow instructed you to do so – I think we will save a lot of local communities – and that people are informed and that we know that we have to sort out waste somewhere, we have to process it and get it back if we want a circular economy. I ask, of course, for support in voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u285	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your proposal. We will vote on it tomorrow in the framework of the vote. The next is Mr Boštjan Koražija, who will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u286	Your Honor, thank you for saying so. According to data from the company Ecologists without Borders, we have around 13,000 wild waste dumps in Slovenia, of which 8 000 400 are unscanned and unspoiled. We can talk about environmental crime, but it is nothing less worrying than other forms of crime. But here is the only problem that we are too tolerant of this kind of crime, which is always happening more often. The reasons for wild waste disposal are financial savings, inefficient control, poor awareness and lack of cooperation between official authorities and the public concerned. Most of these wastes, 41% of them are construction waste and some estimate that the share of construction waste is even about 60%. Kosovo waste is 17%, municipal 15%, organic 13%, 10% of which is hazardous waste, saloon boards represent 2%, similar to the percentage of waste on motor and tyres. After a long drought period in 1989, the rainy season followed, and in the surrounding areas of the southern Drava Field in Brunšvik, the drinking water measured a remarkable increase in the pesticide content, particularly alachlor, which is a plant protection product. It's been 30 years since we learned about this disaster. People have long warned of toxic water. They noticed that the aquarium fish were soon to die as they added water from the water. They searched for the causes of this acute contamination and found that it came from the gramograms that served as wild landfills. For it was driven by individuals and businesses, all the waste, including the most dangerous and partially incinerated there, was simply laid down or dipped. As part of the recovery plan, 17 critical grammar sites in the Drava Field containing highly toxic waste were then recorded, only four of which were reported to have been recovered. That's why I want to know: Have you prepared a register of wild landfills in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia? If you do not have one, do you intend or have you already taken over a register from Ecology without any borders that has already made such proposals? Do you regularly monitor soil and groundwater impacts in registered wild landfills? What's the plan to rehabilitate wild landfills? Several of these landfills were cleaned by volunteers. I also want to know: What is the state's plan for further rehabilitation? Have you prepared a priority plan for the emergency rehabilitation of wild landfills, which are considered to be highly hazardous substances put on hold there? What is the timetable for this plan? What is the total number of inspections last year, and how many of them were related to wild landfills? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u288	Thank you. There are some very exact questions that I don't think we've got in advance. Once again, as has already been the case with Ambassador Kordiš, if you give us this in your announcement, then I can serve you here immediately with the data, how many we have, where we have them and what we do, but if not, I will have to ask you if we can send it in writing. Otherwise, with wild landfills — as long as people have such an attitude toward the environment, we will always have them. There is no tool that we as a country can do to establish such control so that there will be no more wild landfills, because it is impossible to keep such a surface under constant control so that no one can dispose of the waste. Under the Environmental Protection Act, if the cause cannot be ascertained, then the owner of the land is responsible for the disposal of the garbage, which is often misunderstood. It's not your fault, you're just the owner of that plot and it's loaded with you – but otherwise it's not going to work. As I said before, as long as we have a relationship like this, we'd rather take the trailer into the woods than the organized waste collection, then we'll have it. In 2011, the environmental and nature inspection carried out an action to control wild landfills, which cleared most of the wild landfills. At that time, many municipal and medo - medical inspections were also responsible for the cleaning of municipal waste. It was also found that the data provided by the Ecologists' Register without borders were rather inaccurate and unsurprising, but in the coming years, the inspection was in fact no longer carried out in an integrated manner, since the inspection has limited human resources and a wide area of control under which the control of more than 450 regulations. However, in the course of the next years, surveillance has focused on areas which, according to the risk assessment, have had a greater impact on health and the environment. In the coming year, we will also open or bring in a new law on environmental protection, where we will also deal with areas that have been contaminated in the past. It is about determining what are the priorities to set and determining a permanent source of income for the recovery of such areas. Indeed, it is very important that we have reserved resources, that no matter how the economic cycle swings, we have these funds and we can carry out this recovery non-stop. Where he's not, there's no way to identify the cause.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u289	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Koraji, please, you have a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u290	Thank you. Let me illustrate the acuteity of the problems by a very specific example revealed in the preceding 1989 pollution, namely the Kozoder Cave. The Cossack's cave is some kind of symptom of the handling of wild landfills that are contaminated with high-risk substances. Not only for the Drava Field area, you could say for the whole of Slovenia. It was one of the registered 17 grammes, in the Kozoderč Cave, estimated by the Maribor Institute of Environmental Protection in 1989 to be about 550 thousand tons of contaminated land. The cave contained over 30 different pesticides, mineral oils, and other hazardous wastes that had been placed there for more than ten years, according to the data at the time. The Kozoder cave is one of the most important sources of pollution of the Drava field with pesticides. For example, we still have a high level of pollution with atrazine. There's never been a cure. For a while there was still interest in rehabilitation, at least in the 1990s, and then the Kozoder Cave disappeared from the documents of the competent ministry as an acute problem to be solved. It's just that if it's not on the record, then there's no problem. The extent and criticalness of the pollution in the Kozoderje Cave is evidenced by the fact that the average soil pesticide concentration for several hundred thousand times is still permissible. That's why I'm asking you: Are you aware of the acute environmental and human health problem represented by the Kozoder Cave and are you planning to approach a complex rehabilitation? Are you also planning to rehabilitate others who have already been recorded and not yet repaired in the field of the Drava Field? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u292	Like I said, I'd ask you if I could answer you in writing for this cave so we can take a look, because I haven't been informed of it yet. For everyone else, as I said, in the coming year, we intend to adopt legislation for the resolution of contaminated areas in the past, where we will also write our priorities or in what order this will be remedied. But you need to know that any such rehabilitation — these are millions. It will take years and years for us to recover these burdens that we have caused in the past, decades in reality. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mr. Korazia, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u294	Thank you. Wild landfills, the pollution of our soils and groundwater used for drinking water, so that other poorly studied impacts of hazardous waste, for example, through crops we produce in covered areas of wild landfills do not even speak of human health. The number of recorded wild landfills to which we behave as if they are not. But pressing your head in the sand, especially if this sand is among some of these dead dumps, will not solve the problem. We can't wait until the next disaster and then wonder how we didn't do anything. Therefore, I propose that, with regard to article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which guarantees all citizens the right and the duty of the State to provide a healthy living environment for the inhabitants, we should hold a broader debate in this National Assembly on the problem of wild landfills and try to create a set of effective measures or somehow accelerate the implementation of the already planned measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. We will decide on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. The next question will be asked by Mrs Susana Leup Šimenko, Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u296	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, hello! In the past year, of course, we were all extremely happy to have finally opened the second part of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway. You were at the highway opening yourself. Of course, we did not realize at the time that in some way in these border municipalities – I specifically point out Videm, Podlachnik and Žetale – we will not be able to gain relief from the increased traffic, especially in these months ahead of us, during the summer months. Why? The motorway ends just before the international border crossing of Gruškov and – just as we did not foresee at the time or as obviously the contractor did – there is no blameless border crossing in the area. This, of course, is towards Zagreb, against Croatia. Let me point out that the regional road goes right to the highway, but unfortunately the guiltless border crossing is not established, which means that on the one hand, I don't know, Croatian citizens working in Slovenia or Austria are looking for options where they can cross borders without guilt, on the other hand, we have now a crowd of tourists who are already in the past and will also be looking for options without paying the vignette and looking for other ways. On the other hand, as long as we have the controls we have at the border crossings, we can expect increased congestion, including due to a number of cumbersome, as a consequence of course avoiding the main border crossing and more burdened other border crossings in the immediate vicinity. It is a border crossing of Leskovec, which, to point out, is not an international border crossing, the border crossing of Rogatec. In particular, if I point out the Leskovec border crossing, there were almost 300,000 car crossings in the area last year. This is about 40% more than it was a year ago. Given the increased growth of tourists in this area towards Croatia, more can be expected this year. This means, of course, that roads towards these border crossings are significantly more burdensome, but of course they are not so — not border crossings or roads — that they can bear such a burden. That's why I'm interested in: Are you planning to ensure a faultless border crossing at the border crossing point of Gruškova? When and in what way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u298	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. As you yourself said, the last 5.8km long section of the A4 sub-road between Drazenci and the international border crossing of Gruškovje was delivered in November of last year. This is an important part of a comprehensive, trans-European transport network or motorway section linking Slovenia with Croatia and Austria and allowing smooth remote and international transport through our country. At the same time, the motorway section is primarily designed to improve the quality of life of people in the region and to improve transport safety. As the new highway "overrun" the old main road, a new parallel road was built as part of an investment between Drazenci and Gruškov, which serves as a connecting road between the places along the highway and provides access to surrounding land. According to the legislation, toll roads are state-wide roads which form part of the trans-European road network and are marked by prescribed traffic signalling as motorways or fast roads. Since the area of the international border crossing point of Gruškovje is part of a trans-European motorway network operated by Dars as a whole in the Republic of Slovenia, it cannot be excluded from the vignette toll system by virtue of the legal provisions. At the same time, it should be noted that the crossing of the state border is also possible at nearby border crossings that are not on the motorway network. In particular, I would like to say that, according to the expert services of the Ministry, if, at the immediate border crossing area of Gruškov, any non-vignette driving regime could result in a significant outflow of passenger vehicles back to the parallel road network, which would be totally contrary to the objective of upgrading the motorway section under consideration, this would be to relieve the local road network by means of transit transport and to improve traffic safety. In view of everything that has been said at the Ministry of Infrastructure, we estimate that any further action in this area is not yet meaningful.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u299	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Madam Members, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u300	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I can't agree with you. Practice shows quite differently. You can also come to our end in the next few weeks and see for yourself on the face of the city. In the past they have avoided this road, unfortunately because of the border crossing the crowd will not be significantly smaller, but now the column will be two lanes, before it was one lane, which means it will be a little shorter, but by the number of cars there will probably be no significant difference. Still, as in the past, they are looking for other ways where they can actually cross the border without wine and will do so today. Regional roads are extremely busy. Let me tell you, these roads go through settlements, they're not suitable for such transit. The Leskovec border crossing itself is far from suitable for more vehicles. What happened in the past year was essential for as much as he could bear. A parallel regional road towards Grušov, as you said, is built, is ready, and I do not know, let at least for the local population make a possibility of crossing, because in the immediate vicinity, across the border, many people have land. Now that's a big problem for them. After all, they must go to their land with a tractor. How are they supposed to go? I don't know, on the freeway with him? There are real problems, people are turning to local communities, and I believe that this area is easy to settle. The road is built, there is only one border crossing that will allow at least for those who live directly along this border. So please, if you can add a supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u301	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u302	I can commit myself to being together with other competent ministers — because I am not alone or am not even responsible for border crossings — to see what can be done here. I used to answer more in, I'll say, the case that breaking down the vignette system is wrong, because after all, we have to pay off the debts that we or Dars hired to build these highway sections. You are probably monitoring the fact that the Infrastructure Directorate has limited transit transport in certain parts to make life easier for the people living there. So believe that I am the first to make things easier for people, but in accordance with our abilities and responsibilities, and that when we do one thing, we don't do any more problems as benefits. So my commitment can be to look with the competent ministers, of course, at what that would actually mean. As we also open border crossings and do not do it ourselves, you know that it is also necessary to agree with another, a neighbour, a country. [[…]] But as I say, I will put this initiative on the table, and in due course I can also give you a written answer, whether or not it can be done, and if not possible, why not.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u303	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Madam Members, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Of course, I propose that we hold a public debate on this issue. We have already had a faultless border crossing in this particular area, and I believe that it can also be established in the future. However, all these regional roads, either against Logatec or across Videm against Leskovec, are not suitable for such a mass transit of tourists and other passengers who somehow avoid the vignette system. Of course, on the other hand, I understand that we need vines on the highway, and there is no need to tear it down. However, it is necessary to ensure, not least you said yourself, that local roads are also burdened, but now we are also additionally burdening this system on the other side of the other local road. So here is the real problem that I believe that we can solve it with common powers – of course also with the other competent ministries –. As I say, I propose that we also discuss this issue in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u305	Thank you for your proposal. It will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Next up, it's mag. Carmen Furman, who will ask the Minister for Environment and Space to Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u306	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! For many years now, and by various investors, we can listen to warnings about too long and too complicated environmental consensus-building procedures, which ultimately inhibits investment in our country. Something has been said about this on your part today, however, the fact is that in order to obtain environmental consensus, if it has sometimes been waiting there for up to a year, we can today talk about increasingly complicated procedures, when the latter can last for several years. In this area, we are facing a systemic problem, investors are going abroad, and we are running out of necessary investments and, as a result, many times without new jobs. We have a lot of rules, and we have already reached the magic number of 20,000 laws and regulations in 2017. As a result, many projects have been waiting for a building permit for several years, which, of course, also leads to great economic damage, as a number of investors think and end up making an investment abroad. It is also true that these bureaucratic procedures threaten to draw on European funds. Here I would like to highlight the project of upgrading the Prague node, which is to be carried out within the framework of the modernisation of the Maribor-Šentilj railway line. This is a project worth €63.2 million and co-financed by the European Union of €40 million. The project includes the construction of two platforms, the arrangement of stairs and lifts, the upgrading of track and track installations, the upgrade of signalling and telecommunications devices. And most importantly, the implementation of this project would improve the quality of the stay of the Prager region. However, it is obvious that this project has been reattached in red tape. Indeed, the Report on the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy 2014-2020 shows that coordination with Arsa for the project in question is still ongoing, even though the application for environmental agreement was submitted to the Agency in May 2017. Due to the great delay in obtaining environmental consensus, the implementation of the project is delayed even to this extreme so that it can eventually lead to the reallocation of European funds from this project for other purposes. I would like to ask the Minister, in view of all these complications concerning the acquisition of environmental consensus in a number of investments: Do you plan any legal measures at your Ministry to simplify such procedures? In view of the fact that the project in question complicates itself with an agency that belongs to your ministry, even by endangering the implementation of the project itself, I am interested in: What will you, as Minister, do to prevent the collapse of European funds for the implementation of the Prague node upgrade project under the 2014-2020 financial perspective?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u307	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u308	Thank you for asking. In conclusion, you've summed up quite well what awaits me. As regards individual projects, I will not be able to explain myself, but it is precisely because of what you mentioned at the end – that our cohesion funds are at risk – that we are daily getting along with other ministers and that we are saving ourselves from accidentally losing these funds. But if we leave these individual cases – what are we doing about Prague to solve this, because we are aware that we have a problem with Ars having this narrow throat, which then covers the whole system? Some of the legislation is already under public scrutiny, as it concerns the ZVO, because Arso himself has proposed to speed up these procedures. So you'll have your marriage on the table in the fall. At the same time, our ministry is reviewing all the regulations to see where something happens to us, where we can shorten those procedures that we do not need to take in such a long way. I am counting on this to be reviewed by the end of the summer and then to give it to the Government by the end of this year. So we have that part that concerns our ministry, that's what the laws and regulations are all about. At the same time, we are working on a reorganisation on the Ars. We are aware that, for the first time, work will have to be organised differently, and for the second time, that the number of people working there will need to be strengthened. That is why I am already in contact with some ministers, who that things may take too long on Ars, most of the fists, as far as their areas are concerned, and I have come across a very good response. So not only from our ministry, we will look elsewhere at where the frame is suitable, and we will temporarily put it on Arso, so that these environmental consensus procedures will accelerate us to get to a healthy zero and then start working straight away. 'Cause now we're really getting it together. If I look at statistics, there has been a significant increase in applications for environmental consensus in recent years. Let's say 2014 we had 43, 106 in 2017, which is a two-and-a-half growth over a three-year period. During the 10 months of last year, as many as 100 new applications were received, according to 1. 1. to 30. 11. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We are no longer following the growing trend of new roles on Ars with existing staff, which is why we are now doing this – where, according to other ministries, we will put someone from our own in Arsa for at least half a year to speed up these procedures. But it's like there's another part, there's always two sides to each coin. It is also so that until the role is complete, we can do nothing, Arso can do nothing. Many times it is, now I see when the mayors ask me what they're doing on Ars again, and then when I look at it, I see that the role is not well prepared. Not everything is necessary, and then he asks for a supplement, and there comes a supplement, and there's still not everything that's required. It is said that there is a semi-complement somewhere or only a third and needs to be done again. And then it goes on and on and on and on and on and on. So in this work too, it is called counseling the one who gives the role, what he needs, what he needs, how he has to be okay, we need to get this role complete for the first time, or at least this second time, but not that we have no idea how many supplements. On the Ars side, however, it will be necessary to ensure that everyone looks at it all at once, that there is not once water, once air and so on, but all of a sudden and suddenly they say, okay, this has to be complemented, and then the supplement comes, another correction and then it's over. There is little rakrana on both sides, but I hope that, if we manage to make it legally well through, if we manage to get through the regulation and really get these people from other ministries besides the ILO, we will make such a move by the end of the year so that there will be no more such jamming with us.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u310	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. I will be very pleased if the legislation is prepared in this direction, so that the actual procedures in practice will be reduced. However, I will focus on this case because it is one such beautiful example of what is actually happening with these environmental consensuss and what the result is – the loss of cohesion funds or the failure of projects for such or other reasons in practice. Indeed, the countries of Prague are already kind of desperate because they have been waiting for more than two years for more than one month to give consent or environmental consent, which is then the basis for the issue of the building permit, and then work on this track will begin at all. The first application was submitted to Arso, which belongs to your Ministry, in May 2017, only at the end of the year came the first replies to the supplement. We are in 2019 and the communication between the Directorate and Ars is still ongoing. By the best possible means, we know when — in about a year’s time — two will be able to issue a building permit at all. In view of what you have yourself written down in the context of drawing on cohesion funds within the Government, this project is seriously questioned. However, I would like to have an answer to my question about what you will do as Minister so that the European funds for the implementation of the project will not come to an end within the framework of the financial perspective 2014-2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u312	First, I need to look at what is required, why this communication is taking so long, and then I can answer you in writing if you want where the procedure is, why it is where it is, and when it will be a step forward. Because I don't have all the procedures that are going on at Ars, which are in my head, and I don't know them substantively. If you agree, I can send it to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Of course, I will be very pleased if you agree with the Directive or at least within the Ministry of Environment and Space to see what is going on on the Ars with regard to the role in question, but I propose a public debate on this subject in the context of the Rules of Procedure, as the fact is that more than two years are still taking place is still an open process for obtaining environmental consensus. I am afraid of how the process is going to lead to the collapse or realization of the project in nature. I therefore ask that an additional debate be opened in the context of the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 18 June 2019, in the framework of the votes. Dr. Franz Trcek will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Bratušek and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u316	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! Dear Minister, dear Minister! My question is essentially two-part, it concerns the area of commercial aviation, the first part of course on Adrio Airways, the second part at the Maribor Airport or Edward Rusjan Maribor Airport. What's going on with Adria, I don't think it's necessary to explain it long and wide, to repeat it. I can only quote today's statement by the Prime Minister. I quote: “Adria Airways has sold out the warehouse, and we see where we are.” We can agree, Mr. Restovalšek, because you are ultimately also in charge of tourism, that it is very bad advertising for Slovenian tourism, if someone wishes to visit our beautiful country in good faith and falls into this calvary. I'm both asking a question about an operating license. I want to know: Does such a carrier, who apparently collapses himself, even allow almost the survival of passengers? There's nothing else I can say. The second issue crosses again both departments, the situation of Maribor Aerodrome, which is – here I see colleague Mahnič with whom we talked – strategically perhaps even better positioned than the Ljubljana airport. After all, it was one of the main, attractive partners of some potential development of Magna on this site – we know those who are more familiar with it – but at the same time one feels somehow that a few governments do not know what to do with this airport beyond that, that there is obviously a plan now that it is necessary by a certain date, 11. 11. 2021, to refrain from paying certain penalties, in this case for unlawful State aid. Some of the latest information I received goes in the direction of the DRI circuit that the airport is essentially operating for only eight hours, also indicating that some activities do not understand exactly. This is similar to saying that only ten hours a day will be opened at the highway crossing. In this way, the airport shall be constructed for non-competitive purposes. I'm both asking: What are you going to do in this direction? I hope that the answer will not go in the direction of “we will pair one million” because, after all, it is also a critical infrastructure of the country. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u318	Thank you, Mr. Duck, for the question. With regard to LERM, I have explained everything in very detail on one of the previous questions, and I can do it again, but now I will only answer the question of eight hours. Today the airport is open for 11 and a half hours, it is said that there will be no significant difference. If necessary, the absolute airport will be easy and will operate more. However, public money has to be done rationally, and since now this cost of fiasco with an investor who signed the 15-year contract and terminates it after two years, we will act rationally and in the first phase the airport will operate for eight hours. But everything else, as I said, I explained. The only legal option without a public invitation to tender at this time was a 100 per cent company owned by a country that could do so after the so-called in-house relationship. The following needs to be changed, and this is also happening, the State Spatial Plan, to tell us what investments, what expansion in this area we can offer to someone, and in the third phase, I think it would be necessary to find a real concessionaire. A real one, with a vision, with the possibility of development. I agree that this is an economic opportunity for that part of Slovenia, but it is a fact that this airport has not been successful in the last 25 years. I think someone calculated that on average 24 passengers landed at this airport. I believe you agree with me that this is not very good and competitive. As for Adrie, I also agree with you that she's obviously going from bad to worse. The Ministry of Infrastructure does not grant so-called operating licences, but we are in daily contact with the Aviation Agency and our first thing is security. Once this is compromised, Adria's planes will no longer be in the air, so that I can ensure that security, according to the agency, is not at risk for now. However, I have already proposed in the coalition that it might not be bad to review this business or to revise sales, because, as a member of the National Assembly in the previous term, I have pointed out at several meetings this catastrophic deal with the fund, an investment fund that has sunk before Adria a number of companies. State aid is not possible because it is less than ten years from the last state aid, all we can do as a country, and we are looking at it, is to make a call for those most urgent lines for which we will assess that our country needs them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Minister Rest, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u320	The well-respected choir! Comprehensive transport accessibility and internal and external transport connectivity of a country, which, of course, includes aviation connectivity, is one of the key factors in the competitiveness of a country in both the economic and tourism fields. The broader economic strategy, as well as the tourism strategy, particularly underlines the importance of transport accessibility objectives. Of course, we want to have as much infrastructure as possible in both airports and then in the connectivity area, but we need to note that things have gone back in both areas. After taking over the airport by this foreign owner in Maribor, the number of passengers from then 30 to 40 thousand a year fell below 5,000; despite the enormous promises that we knew were somehow on unrealistic ground. Here I must say that we support the decision made by the Ministry of Infrastructure, that the matter is not closed, because we can either buy ourselves time to find a sustainable solution by doing so. Of course, an airport will experience a positive story only if we are more successful in economic terms in that area, as well as wider, more successful. But another story is the story with the air carrier. I also have to say here that I agree with my colleague on what she said, including on the revision, if you wish, of this procedure. The problem is that, as such, we cannot help the company on Bianca's paper, we have agreed with them to send us their latest financial data so that we can explore the possibility of aid in a promotional sense for the destinations they fly. In 14 days or three weeks since our meeting with them, we haven't received any numbers, but we've reached an alarming state in another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u322	Thank you. Somehow I can't be completely satisfied with the answer. Looks like we're dealing with some kind of fund-raiser problem. It is also true that for 25 years someone apparently did not do his homework. As far as Adrio is concerned, of course, I learned from experts and, frankly, they told me that this is already too much of a story, even if it was possible to save it, but we are somehow at the beginning of the tourist season. Of course, I know that the aviation agency is licensing, but you know what's safe, what's not safe, probably if some mother and a little child is staying abroad at an airport for two days, two days and a half, I think we should talk about this kind of security. [[…]] As far as our Maribor airport is concerned, I have, on the basis of some indications, at least three serious offers were, somehow, a feeling that it is not precisely trying to make this airport somehow come to life and would not be primarily and merely a cost of the state. I think it's problematic here. You know, as far as one and the other story is concerned when I listen to you – I will say, we do have an Owl, we also have a diplomatic network around the world that we should strengthen, and it seems to me that it would also be a task for these institutions to check out some potential buyers if we are already selling so unwisely, as the President of the Government of Sarec points out. Because we are always having these stories happen again and above all, I would like an answer in the direction of finding a solution so that this airport is competitive and would not be a cost to us. After all, it is one of the most regulated activities and it is also unacceptable from this title that people who have been educated for something are then actually [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Minister, please, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u324	Thank you very much. I'm just gonna repeat what I said before. If we want to find a new tenant, we should make a call. This is not possible in such a short time, until mid-July. Although you say that we have an investor, at least two companies were interested – believe it or not, the existing tenant would also be willing to continue to operate this airport if the state paid him. So far, he's been paying the state, and now he has the idea that the state is paying him. I have sworn here before you that I will work legally, and at this point the only legal way I have told you is that this airport temporarily takes over management by a company that is 100 percent owned by the State and we can determine it in accordance with the so-called in-house rule that this is managed by the country. Everything else needs to be looked for in a public invitation to tender. I have made it very clear that – now it appears that we will succeed in this solution – even at the cost of closing the airport of illegal contracts would not be signed. And I also tell you, honourable Member, that on my part, there will never be any illegal contracts signed. And if you're still rooting for some particular society, corporation, consortium, whatever we call it. So, first of all, temporary DRI – yes, the cost will be, at the annual level of around EUR 700 000, and I have made that clear. I'd rather not have this expense because it's stuck in our financial plan. The next step is the state spatial plan, which is already changing. What extent will people be willing to accept there, 140 comments received or received by the ILO because the ILO is the carrier – I also expect here that local communities, especially mayors, will help us very much. And the third step is to find the right partner, the concessionaire, in all likelihood, who will give life to this airport. I believe that you agree with me that what has been this 25 years is far from what we can expect from a normal international airport. I think that at this time we have done everything we can to keep the airport open, because this is an economic opportunity for that end of Slovenia and also not to return European funds. To develop this airport at large, I don't think it's real, so I'm talking about a concessionaire that we're going to look for and find on the invitation to tender.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u326	Thank you so much for saying that. Madam Minister, certain Members in this country can be bought. One time it's a tobacco lobby, another time it's something else, I'm not one of those MPs, and I'm not rooting for any particular case. Of course, I have seen quite a few of them because I come from this region, and of course I am also interested in the economic development of this region. You know, in the middle of fat cows, we dream about how we're going to change the DN. [[…]] In every approximately normal country, it's done before the fat cow's time, if I say so myself. One story that I didn't mention before – someone I also think KZ should answer that we came into a situation where the current owner is basically forcing us to leave, but here is, you know, a similar story to hospitals. Someone has privatized parking lots in certain hospitals and some companies are doing well there, according to the local word. I will repeat this question in the autumn months. With regard to the invitation to tender, of course, I agree with the direction that this should be done. As for legality, illegality, what some of your e-military, Mrs. Bratusek, want to practice with my aunts on Facebook there. After all, it is the task of the executive to discuss with some potential stakeholders how to place the story within some legal framework. There's probably none of the rest of us, 20 of us, or how many of us, who would advocate illegal solutions. In view of everything that has been said, even in view of what has been said to someone else who has asked a similar question, I propose that we still hold a general debate, and I call on you to vote on this tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 18 June 2019, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jan Mahnic will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u328	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Lately there has been a lot of talk about the theory of sex when we are being tried by both national media and various propaganda, which I have to say is quite active, to make sure that biological sex does not exist, that there is no natural attraction between men and women, that it is all a social construct, that everyone tells what it is and what it wants to be, and so on. This is increasingly moving to educational institutions, both in kindergartens and in primary schools. There have been several cases in the media, the last time FDV students taught about sex theory at the primary school in Vrhnika, how young people convinced that there were no men and women sex, but that there was more sex to decide for themselves what they wanted to be. There are also increasing calls for compulsory literature to be introduced in primary school to teach in terms of LGBTQ values. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary: What is your agenda in this area? What are your plans for the future? How much funding does your Ministry of the Promotion of the Ideology of LGBTQP devote? How much does it spend on promotion companies and their activities? What will you do to relieve children during this sensitive age period that when they develop, someone tells them that there are 60, 70 genders, which some countries are already seeking in their legislation, not least Germany, which introduced the possibility of being defined as a third sex? Have you received any complaints from all these actions that have taken place in educational institutions, however you have dealt with them? Then what were the consequences? I'm talking about a mandatory view of a homosexual porn movie at Ptuj High School, talking about guys who danced striptease in bikinis at Globoko Elementary School, talking about how some Russian porn actress promotes dangerously unprotected pornography on national television in children's shows, not talking about how Pil magazine promotes all this. I also want to know: What happened to this last case at Vrhnika? In short, Minister, how much money is spent on this and can you expect to open the LGBT ideology to the future door of primary schools and kindergartens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u330	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, and, of course, to the Member for this question. Here, however, some things need to be separated and very clearly some things to be said. One thing is that we — I think since 1996 — have been the basic law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which sets out very clearly the objectives of education and education in Article 2. The objectives of education and education, of course, include education for mutual tolerance, the development of gender equality awareness, respect for diversity and cooperation with others, respect for children and human rights and fundamental freedoms, the development of equal opportunities for both sexes and the development of the capacity to live in a democratic society. This is Article 2 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. These contents of which you are asking are not introduced as one subject, because the teaching profession – we are talking about gender content – has long established that it is much more effective, even for other content, if they are performed so called transverse, so they are contained in different parts of the curriculum. Since the 1990s, since I told you that ZOFVI, at least this basic version, has been adopted, has not changed in this matter. As regards the legal basis and all of this and the approach to the education of young generations, things have not really changed since then. The content mentioned by you, LGBTQ, is not explicitly mentioned in any primary school curriculum. As far as the sexes are concerned, they are in the following — and I will tell you so clearly that we will all know what this is all about. Firstly, the curriculum for learning about the environment, i.e. the first triad of primary school, lists among the general objectives the development of tolerance for different and the application of the principle of gender equality. Then the 5th grade society curriculum: they recognize that people in the community are different, for example by age, religion, sexual orientation, ethnicity, socio-economic status, social and cultural differences, and, of course, what is important at this age, they also recognize stereotypes related to the first, second, third or fourth status. Then, if we move on, the curriculum for the selection course is civil culture, which is the third triad of the primary school. In the section on equality and diversity, there is also a gender difference between the proposed content. Those plans do not specify how many hours each year is intended for or do not specify how individual topics are to be carried out under a specific curriculum. That is why, as far as societies are concerned, I must say, I honestly don't know, we are going to give you this amount, if, even if it is delivered, as far as implementation is concerned, so as to be able to calculate in the course of the curriculum how many hours it took for these three triads and how many hours it took to learn about the sex, we are actually very difficult to calculate, because there are no specific hours for this. There were no changes, no additions, anyway, to the curriculum in this part. So they're what they were set up in the '90s. But that teachers are in their work – of course they must follow the curriculum, they must follow the goals and so on, but they have pedagogical education and autonomy in order to achieve the goals set. This is their autonomy, and according to this autonomy, they also teach.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u332	Thank you, Vice President. Now that you, Minister, have listed the purposes of education and education, you have first begun with mutual tolerance. I agree here. I think my question was quite patient. Now, if it wasn't, then we're in a lot of trouble because obviously you can't even open this darkness. You can ask such a question in one way or another, normally, provocatively, anyway, I think I asked you a perfectly normal question and I expect such an answer. You mentioned a sexual difference. What's the sex difference? How many sexes do you think there are, Mr. Secretary? Because if there are more than two, then we have a problem because you yourself mentioned: the same conditions for both sexes. What two if there's more? I don't know which ideology or according to what you're defending. But it's nice that it says gender equality and not gender equality. That's what you've been underlining. That the purpose of education and education is that people are different religions, different races, different cultures, different sexual orientations, so no one has any problem. It is also right that we learn about this in primary schools and thus build patience. However, Mr Minister, I think this has nothing to do with the idea that sex is a social construct. That you explain to the ten - year - olds that they are not men or women and that they should decide for themselves what they will be and what they will be like, it has nothing to do with the tolerance and equality of two genders, as it says here, not with the same conditions and so forth. That was my question, Mr. Secretary. I don't mind, I support the fact that in primary school this diversity is presented to young people to learn about it. Different kinds of people are, we have to stay together in co-existence, but we can't finance what they did on the Supreme, what that textbook Love is doing is love and other similar practices. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u334	Thank you very much. I'd love to. I think we're talking patiently, so there's no problem here. First of all, as far as the textbook is concerned. The textbook is a very specific category for us. For some material to become a textbook, it has to stop the review and it has to be approved on the general education board if it is basic schools. So, the textbooks are under rigorous control and that particular material you're talking about doesn't have textbook status. So this is one of the things that needs to be cleared up. As it is said, teachers are autonomous in their work, have objectives set in the curriculum and must pursue these goals. What material they use in this regard is their autonomy. Last but not least, they're highly qualified, everyone has diplomas, everyone has professional exams and so on. As for the sex, only the Slovenian language has three vocabularies, and two biologics probably have quite something in common. So we can talk long and wide about these sexes, and this would probably be some kind of long discussion. What I personally think, even maybe it is not so important, because it is important that the objectives are pursued, it is important that, if something is wrong, the Inspectorate reacts, but the Minister is the top of some administrative or political apparatus that I think you and I hope is not involved in the content of a particular curriculum, because it is a matter of experts and things of all those who know best what the real thing is for a certain development period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Let's move on, mag. Meira Hot will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u336	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister! In the past week, the initiative of the prominent citizens of Maribor, which exposes the overload of road links between the largest Slovenian cities, has been rounded up by media and online networks. They warn that for 133 kilometers it takes several hours to get on the highway because of accidents, prisons, and congestion. In doing so, they point out that the use of public or rail transport is not the right alternative. The journey by train takes a minimum of two hours and is normally longer than two and a half hours and includes several violations. Instigators are convinced that the time of travel between the two cities should be substantially reduced to about 50 minutes. As a coastal Member, I must point out that we are also facing a similar and similar problem at the western end of the A1 motorway in Primorska. The coastal highway also cracks through the seams due to congestion, its users are suffocating in traffic jams due to accidents, reconstructions and imprisonment. Even in the case of Primorska the railway link does not constitute a real alternative to road transport. From Ljubljana to Kopra there are five daily train connections and only one of them is fully carried out by train and the shortest driving time is two hours 20 for a distance of only 107 kilometers on the road. It is certainly possible to agree with the initiators that we need better transport links between the major Slovenian cities and we know that expansion and new construction of highways cannot be the only solution, as this means more personal road transport. Therefore, it is obvious that one of the main things is that A1 motorways at its full length need a serious alternative in the form of a new railway. Restoring an existing network can only be a short-term solution. The aim should be to build a new, modern railway link that connects Koper and Maribor through Ljubljana and ensures travel time shorter than one hour, thus encouraging sustainable mobility. Given that we are already facing serious problems in building and rebuilding smaller sections of the infrastructure, I am interested in: In your opinion, what are the options for unloading the A1 motorway and reducing travel time on it to a short term, mid-term and long-term? How, if any, will you undertake an action plan to ensure that travel time between Ljubljana and Maribor or between Ljubljana and Kopro is reduced to less than an hour? At what time and at what price do you think that initiative could be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u338	Thank you for asking. I will add not only important people who have signed on this initiative, but also ordinary people ask and point out the state or difficult links on our roads. I can say that rail infrastructure is one of the top priorities of my ministry. The fact is that in the past we have put more emphasis on the construction of motorways, which was probably right in those times, but now it is also the turn of the second, that is, the railway infrastructure. I am convinced that we need a serious strategy for the development and construction of the rail network or railway infrastructure in our country. The fact is that for 156 kilometers from Maribor to Ljubljana today we spend 110 minutes, probably during the times of the reconstructions that are taking place now, indeed more. But after these renewals, which are now extending, the journey should be from 2020 onwards, it is said that when these renovations are completed, at the section Maribor-Ljubljana is still 156 kilometers long and the time for this journey should be 90 minutes, it is an hour and a half. Here we can say that this is already quite comparable to driving on the highway, even in the face of the crowd. So this is the first step we've already taken. The second step could be to improve the existing line with some new sections, especially in the area between Kresnica and Celje and Grobelni and Prague, with this improvement the line could be reduced to 124 kilometres and 70 minutes. For everything else, there are 50 minutes from Ljubljana to Maribor, our country would need a so-called fast railway. I do not agree with the Member who said it was a dream before – if they knew it somewhere, we can know it in Europe. I would point out, however, that this can not only be the Ljubljana–Maribor route, but that more European cities must be included in this connection quickly. My proposal, which we have also dealt with before this initiative, is the rapid link between Venice-Ljubljana-Maribor-Dunaj and Venice-Rome, and this rapid link already exists. In my opinion, this should be, could be, a European project. I am committed to putting this as a proposal on the table, so that this should be one of the points that will be highlighted as our priority during the presidency. I will now set up a short working group to assess where this route could be placed, and also, I will say, to make a very grave assessment of the financial implications. But I can tell you that we're talking billions here, not to say ten billion more. Thus, when Slovenia decides to go into this, it is also necessary to say where we will get the money for this. The same applies to the Koper-Ljubljana route. We know that building the Divača-Koper will shorten this time, and there will also be more opportunities for passenger trains. We know that freight trains kick passengers out, that passengers are practically gone on this track. Here too, it would be possible with smaller and not necessarily so small, but with investments in existing infrastructure or existing route to reduce the line to 99 kilometers and also time to less than one hour, 57 minutes is an assessment of Slovenian railways. So we certainly have a short-term, medium-term, long-term vision, which I think Slovenia alone cannot carry out, because we are simply for fast rail to be profitable, I think, too small. But we can have it together with other countries and with other European cities, and it can look like a dream today, but the one who doesn't dream, in the end, doesn't do much. And if the Chinese knew, there's no reason not to know Europeans.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u340	Thank you. Of course I agree with you, it's not a dream. If we had started this dream 25 years ago, we wouldn't be talking about it today, but it would have been real. Because if we return again – 133 kilometers of highway between Maribor and Ljubljana, as you said, is 156 kilometers of track, but 107 kilometers between Kopro and Ljubljana is 153 kilometers of track. Of course, building a second track will reduce this, but still not enough to make this line actually attractive to people and make it a real alternative. As you can see, our infrastructure is unfortunately very outdated in this context. Koper-Murska Sobota, on the train even air conditioning devices are not installed, so it is really a very unattractive type of transport and it is virtually impossible to think that people will give up highway connections and get on the train unless we improve these conditions. But if we go back to the highway a little bit more, and given that we are really dealing with traffic jams almost daily on the Ljubljana-Koper highway, Koper-Ljubljana, also burning up to Maribor, we would ask the following questions: Would it not still be possible to adjust these timetables a little? Would it not be possible to perform part during the summer season during the nighttime? You're driving towards Cyprus, there's a new prison every 20 kilometers, which means a new five- to ten-mile column, traffic accidents are daily. In fact, the situation is unbearable. I also want to know: Is there any way or plan to improve this situation both on the Koper-Ljubljana route and Ljubljana-Maribor route? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u342	Thank you. As I said, also the Ljubljana-Koper route – yes, at this point is 153 kilometers long and the time to drive, if the train is even, is just over two hours. There are plans for improvement here too, it is said, these are the tracks between Borovnica and Postojna and Divaca, from Kopra to Divaca, and this track is already being built. The route would be 90 miles [99 km] long and the driving time would be three minutes less than an hour. New trains have also been ordered by Slovenian railways, 50 train compositions. The first come this year, so we can say that infrastructure is really our great common priority, but it doesn't go here overnight, which is a fact. These are projects that are long-lasting, expensive and just take time. But as far as the highway works are concerned, believe it or not, it was one of my first questions to ask the board of Dars. Transport studies show that traffic is the least in the summer months and are therefore carried out during the summer months. There is even more transit traffic, I agree with you, I can also do night work, but in some countries they do not, in others they do not, but I believe that we also agree here that we also need to look together at the workers who make these investments. So I can even do the night work, I'll say, check on Dars. In the biggest investments, for example, it was Golovec's investment, which is one way or another due to the difficulties of the tender – 24 hours' work was envisaged there.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u343	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Marko Bandelli to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andre Bertoncl. Since he is absent, I would like you to clarify whether you want a written or oral reply to the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u344	Thank you, Chairman. Oral, oral, mandatory oral response on his part. Dear Minister, my question of departure is related to the level of the former SDH President, Mrs Lidija Glavina. In March this year we were able to learn that Mrs Glavina has agreed with the Supervisory Board on an agreed early departure from the administration of the Slovenian State Holding. At that time, speculations arose in the public that the consent of its departure was conditional on 12 salaries, although it was supposed to have only six. A few days ago, in the media, this topic was echoed by news that is impossible to ignore. Mrs Lidia Glavina is expected to conclude a six-month advisory agreement with SDH for a period of six months in addition to the six-month leave. In doing so, you are immediately asked a logical question about what any society would even conclude an advisory agreement with someone with whom it would like to suspend its cooperation. If SDH assessed that the time had come for its departure, why prolong cooperation? We are talking about the amount of EUR 132 000 for which an average citizen has worked for 12 years. Twelve years! A pensioner who has worked hard and paid contributions for 40 years and who is the recipient of an average pension receives such an amount within 20 years. This is a retirement worth 52 thousand sandwiches — just to say. Do you think that's appropriate and acceptable? Don't you think that's an extremely high price to pay for a consensual break-up? SDH does not want to give an exact answer about the amount and refers to business secrecy. Such shelters are a powerful source of confidence, respect and respect that SDH is expected to excite by its actions. Mr. Secretary, I'm interested in your opinion on such high discharges: In this case, who will be responsible for granting such a high amount? Maybe it'll be SDH's supervisory board, maybe his president? In the opinion of the general public, Mrs Glavina has not done her duties and functions well for the President. Finally, the Government has set high ethical and moral standards in this mandate: Do you not feel that this is an excessive and unacceptable amount of retirement, which is to be limited and reduced in the future? Do you view such behaviour as prudent and in the public interest? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Predrag Baković will raise a question for Interior Minister Boštjan Poklukar and Health Minister Aleš Šabedru. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u346	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister! For many years, public pharmacies in Slovenia have not complied with the law on public procurement. Medicinal products shall be purchased beyond the rules of public procurement through direct contracts with certain suppliers of medicinal products. In 2018 alone, with the four largest suppliers of medicines, medical devices and food supplements, 24 public pharmacies operating in Slovenia created poor 500 million Euros of transport. This multi-annual infringement of the current provisions of the Republic of Slovenia on public procurement is well known to all — the Court of Auditors, the State Audit Commission, the National Investigation Office, the State Prosecutor’s Office, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission of the National Assembly, the Institute of Health Insurance and so on. This issue was also addressed by the Commission of the National Assembly on Public Finance Supervision, which decided at its 38th urgent meeting on 15 March 2018 that the competent authorities should initiate appropriate procedures against responsible directors and members of the boards of institutions in those public institutions which do not conduct procurement through public procurement procedures. All of this points to a major systemic problem, the inactivity of institutions that are obliged to take care of the legality of the operation of public pharmacies and the economic and legal use of budgetary resources for health. I therefore ask the Minister of the Interior: Why is such a situation permitted, and why does no institution responsible for legality and control effectively fail to act? The fact is that the Court of Auditors has carried out an audit and that the State Audit Commission has tabled one indictatory proposal against the responsible person in the case of the Pomurska Pharmacy Public Institute, but this is no longer sufficient, irregularities continue, and as a result there is damage to public funds, medicines and poorer services. At the same time, I ask the Minister of Health: Why does the Institute of Health Insurance pay public medical institutions public funds for the purchase of medicines, even though it knows that medicines are not lawfully obtained? And the second question: What measures will the Ministry take to ensure the effective management and supervision of public pharmacy establishments, since they have more than apparently been cancelled by the founders of public pharmacies, saints of institutions and directors of public institutions? Will anyone also be responsible for the damage? Why does ZZZS pay the price for medicines which are not reduced for subsequent discounts received from suppliers of medicines by public pharmacies? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Minister, who's first? Mr. Shabeder, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u348	Thank you for your word, chairman. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. Dear Member and Members! The safe and smooth supply of medicines to the population is, in fact, the basic mission of a number of public pharmacies that provide public services for the care of people and health care providers with medicines and other products to support the treatment and maintenance of health. The main public pharmacies, for which the Public Procurement Act or the ZJN-3 are to apply, are not established for profit. Their primary and basic purpose is to ensure the effective supply of medicines to the population, but they are organised and operated in a way that is why they are making every effort to operate carefully, efficiently and economically with a view to the smooth supply of medicines to the population. On the one hand, the medicines provided in this way are provided at the burden of compulsory health insurance, i.e. at the burden of public funds and, on the other hand, at the burden of private resources. In addition to the public service, other activities are carried out by public pharmacies, including the sale of medical devices and other products to support treatment and maintain health. This is referred to in Articles 6 and 7 of the Law on Pharmacy. The market for medicinal products is specific because it is almost impossible to determine in advance the quantity and type of medicinal products, all in accordance with the rules in force. The prescriber indirectly determines the amount and type of medicines in the pharmacy or is the choice of individual patients when it comes to self-medication. A pharmacy which has no influence on the decision of the prescriber shall, in accordance with the legislation, be required to take into account and issue to the patient, on the basis of a valid prescription, any medicinal product authorised on the Slovenian market within 24 hours. This is also the subject of the Act on Pharmacy in its Article 24. The prices of medicinal products that are provided and issued under the mandatory health insurance are regulated, i.e. determined or agreed with the payer, in accordance with the Medicinal Products Act, this is the Institute of Health Insurance, which also checks prices. The prices of medicines as well as services covered by compulsory health insurance are the same for all pharmacies in Slovenia. All pharmacies in Slovenia charge at the primary level public pharmacy establishments and concessionaries in accordance with the ZZDR-2 to a health insurance company or the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia the medicinal product at the same prices or up to the highest level of the recognised value or exceptional higher price determined by law, or the agreed prices determined by the ZZS with the added medical service. The prices of medicines and other goods not financed from public funds shall be set free on the market. Public pharmacies are obliged in accordance with the provisions of the Medicinal Products and Pharmaceuticals Act and the rules of compulsory health insurance to be issued to a patient who, on the basis of a valid prescription, asks for the issue of a medicinal product, any medicinal product authorised on the Slovenian market. That's within 24 hours. The Ministry of Health is responsible for ensuring the smooth supply of medicines to the population and ensuring that medicines are as widely accessible as possible, including the latest innovative and biological medicines. We are also familiar with the opinion, as you mentioned, of the Court of Auditors in this case. Several meetings and meetings have already been held, both with representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration and with other stakeholders. Activities and negotiations with all stakeholders in order to find an optimal solution are still under way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u350	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Police are also working in the field of health care, with 129 cases dealt with in the area of detection and investigation of so-called health corruption between 2014 and today. A number of criminal charges have been filed with the prosecution and more criminal charges have been supplemented by 100 criminal charges. Complaints were also sent on grounds of reasonable suspicion of various offences, particularly corruption, abuse of official status or official rights, abuse of position or confidence in economic activities, falsification or destruction of business documents and other criminal offences. The content of the criminal complaints was mainly related to the purchase and servicing of various equipment and devices, waiting types, personnel matters, treatment and investment works. In this case, we currently have 20 cases in the field of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u352	Thank you very much. Look, both the Court of Auditors and the MJU have said that pharmacies are subject to public procurement rules. After some modest knowledge of the Penal Code, I believe that there are grounds for doubt that certain crimes could have been committed in these cases, particularly the damage to public funds and also the abuse of official status and official rights. During this time, we have witnessed practically every day crimes or offences taking place in front of our noses, and in this regard we do not act in any way. In fact, one indictment, which has been submitted so far, is insufficient. It's about as if he drove into a red light or a radar every day. I'll probably pay the fine every time. It is therefore appropriate that law enforcement authorities and the Ministry of Health begin to implement concrete measures to this end. I agree that pharmacies are not established for profit, but we must be aware that the health insurance company pays all medicines to pharmacies and does not take into account the discount that the suppliers subsequently deduct. This remains a pharmacy and this could be considered a profitable activity. In addition to the fact that the Ministry of Health's task is not only a smooth supply of medicines, it is also a legitimate act. For this reason, I propose and appeal to all parties that the ZZZS should start rejecting all accounts of public pharmacies that carry out the procurement of medicines without an appropriate procurement procedure, that the competent institutions do everything in accordance with their competences to prosecute offences and criminal offences, and that the application of the general agreement for the contract year 2019, where the subsequent discount is taken into account in the payment by the health insurance undertaking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u354	Thank you for your word, chairman. I agree with all of these, Mr Member. As I have already mentioned, activities and negotiations in this area are taking place, of course, the Ministry of Health will play an active role here in order to resolve matters, clear up matters and find a suitable solution in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u356	Thank you very much. In any case, the police will continue to prosecute corruption in health care and the crimes associated with it. I must also say that, in 84 cases, the police have dealt with crimes, but no crime signs have been identified or have dealt with cases where no crime signs have been identified and only reports have been sent to the prosecutions. As far as officially persecutable crimes are concerned, the police will do their part, and it is true that there is also a need to report suspicious criminal services in the field of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, would you like a word? No, no, no. Okay. Let's move on. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andre Bertontzl. I also ask you to determine whether you want an oral answer or whether the Minister is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u358	Your Honor, I'd like a written answer. My question concerns events from ten years ago. The rehabilitation of banks in our country was a necessary measure if we wanted our country to take the right path again. Since 2009, Slovenia has been struggling with a difficult financial and economic crisis – I say everything since 2009 – and I wonder why no one has acted on it. Above all, this is a question for the government that led the country between 2008 and 2011. According to the Bank of Slovenia, the rehabilitation of banks would have been worth as much as two billion euros if it had been carried out in 2011 and was not. That is why the government of Janez Janša had to act and adopted the basic measures for the rehabilitation and necessary legislation. After the fall of the government of Janez Janša, the government was taken over by Mrs Alenka Bratušek. Because times were very difficult. She did not know how she would pay her pensions next month, and she paid many public servants. Everyone was predicting the break, they were calling a threesome, and they were waiting for it to come. But the government of Alenka Bratušek managed to put Slovenia on a hard track without any foreign aid, and no one believed us. Of course, our banks, which were in great difficulty, needed to be rehabilitated first with tax money. Sanitation was undoubtedly expensive. But I've already said before that it could be significantly cheaper if we took action earlier. Despite the fact that we have saved the banks ourselves, the European Commission has requested certain measures from us because the rehabilitation is carried out as State aid and the European Commission always lays down conditions for state aid. Despite the fact that our country has always agreed to the European Commission's commitments to sell banks, it must be made clear that the National Assembly has already approved a decision on the sale of Nova Ljubljanska Banka and New Credit Bank Maribor in 2012 or the SDS Coalition, New Slovenia, the National Gazette and Desusa. So the European Commission has not asked us anything but to respect our own commitments. However, the story is slightly different from that of Abanka, and it was not until the end of 2014 or at the beginning of 2015. Cerar’s government, the SMC, SD and Desus coalition, has adopted an agreement on the sale of the Bank or a strategy defined by Abanko for sale. Nevertheless, the situation in our country today is significantly different, and that is why the Government with the European Commission could reach some agreement on the amendments to the decision issued at the time of recovery. I want to know: What are you doing or have you contacted the European Commission about changes in your commitment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u359	Thank you very much. You will receive a written reply as you wish. Mag. Marko Koprivc will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u360	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister! In 2016, Adria Airways became the owner of the 4K Investment Fund. At the time of taking over the company in poor financial condition, it cited large plans and investments in this company. Today, three years later, we can rightly be concerned about their non-fulfilment. For there are news of delays, mergers and flight cancellations, and dissatisfaction of users and passengers. This has recently been accompanied by information on the company's business problems, which could even endanger its existence. In doing so, it is not irrelevant that the current owner of Adrie Airways is not to hold back from hesitation if it is necessary to liquidate an undertaking which, in his view, does not generate sufficient profits. Moreover, there are even reasonable suspicions of the intentional exhaustion of the company with which the owners of the company are losing their hands, while the sum of unpaid accounts is increasing and daily. Of course, this threatens the lines managed by Adria Airways, and the most important thing is the fate of about 500 highly qualified employees. I am aware that although Adria is no longer owned by the State, she is a private enterprise, but the reputation of her brand, business and service is still closely linked to Slovenia's reputation as a country as a tourist and travel destination. The media announcements on the cancellation of flights and the dissatisfaction of passengers do not contribute in any way to this reputation. In my opinion, Adria Airways is still an air carrier for public administration services, and also manages lines of great importance for Slovenia's connection to international transport hubs. Even the dissatisfaction of users, even the business risk of the company, also represents a significant risk and damage to the Republic of Slovenia. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, as follows: Or and how will you act to safeguard the existence and quality of the national air carrier, whose operation is closely linked to the country's reputation and economic situation? I'm especially interested in: What are you going to do to secure jobs? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u362	The well-respected choir! Mr Member, thank you for the question. Overall transport accessibility, internal and external transport connectivity of a country, which of course also includes aviation connectivity, is one of the key factors in the competitiveness of a country and an extremely important factor in economic development. Transport infrastructure linking transport hubs to each other, such as airports, is, of course, important both in terms of passenger transport and freight transport. As a broader economic development strategy as well as tourism, the importance and objectives of the country's transport accessibility and transport connectivity are highlighted. From an economic and, above all, a tourist point of view, we want as many connections as possible, regardless of which airline provides them. We are therefore working together with the Slovenian Tourism Organization at the Ministry, with numerous promotional activities to increase the visibility of Slovenia as well as for air-based tourist destinations. In doing so, we focus on all existing air carriers flying or intending to fly to Jožet Pučnik Airport, including Adrio, of course. At the Ministry we also welcome the announced investment projects of Fraport, such as the construction of a new passenger terminal, which will increase the capacity of the terminal itself and the quality of airport services. At the same time, we welcome the planned increase in the capacity and frequency of flights of existing airlines, such as British Airways, Air France, Lot and Aeroflot. This confirms the fact that where there is potential, there is transport and the carrier or the market themselves to ensure adequate coverage and connectivity. Adria Airways is, of course, an extremely important company for our country, which, together with other providers, ensures the aviation connectivity of Slovenia, but it is a private-owned company. The country has no and cannot have a direct impact on the business of the company, but we do want Adria Airways to operate in a stable, competitive and predictable business environment and we expect Adria to be able to find opportunities in her organisation for further optimal operation of the company. Our ministry operates within its powers. Transport, connectivity is primarily part of the Ministry of Infrastructure, but together with the WTO, we are working together to promote Slovenia and, inter alia, to promote the transport connectivity of Slovenia and to facilitate work on transport or air transport. And the Sustainable Growth Strategy of Slovenian Tourism 2017-2021 also defines a new aviation link within the framework of the marketing strategy implemented by the Slovenian Tourism Organisation. Therefore, this year, the Slovenian Tourist Organisation published a Public Procurement and Promotional Activities contract in the media of air carriers flying to Slovenia and other promotional activities aimed at facilitating the sale of Slovenia as an aviation destination from 2019 to 2021. The aim of this contract is also to increase the visibility of Slovenia as the destination of the aviation sector and motivate the target segments for visiting Slovenia, increase the market competitiveness and business performance of the forestry sector in Slovenia. In addition, the WTO is carrying out a huge number of communication promotional activities that contribute to increasing the visibility of Slovenia and the rural development of Slovenia as aviation destinations. More than once, it has been said today that direct aid to Adria cannot be given because it has been less than 10 years since the last aid was received in 2011, and the only option available to us has been the agreement to send us information on their financial operations, so as to know whether we can help them in a promotional way or not, so that this will not be State direct aid. However, we need to get information from them to see at least the last condition of this company. We have not yet received this, and if we come to the right data in relation to them, we will now examine it and listen to it legally, within our capabilities, to help them.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u364	Minister, thank you so much for that answer. I would like to reiterate once again that it is crucial for Slovenia to maintain the existence of a national air carrier. Even more so because the Slovenian economy is highly export-oriented. In addition, let me point out that most European countries or countries of the European Union have their own air carrier, with the exception of Slovakia and Hungary, where one of the most important low-cost carriers is established. So I would appeal here again to you, Minister, and to the whole government to try, however, to find some solution to the preservation, the existence of Adria Airways, which was once, you might say, the pride of Slovenia. At the same time, we must recognise that part of the responsibility for this wrong sale decision is borne by the State or SDH when it sold the national carrier to a so-called unknown company. I would like to ask you further in broad terms: What will you do or will you do to ensure that state-owned companies no longer sell to foreign funds whose purpose is not by definition to strengthen economic activity and development, but only to continue machining for their own profits? Adria Airways was not the first such case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u366	Your Honor! I fully agree with your additional claims. Once again, the national airline is an important issue for us, but we can only help it in the way the law allows. At the moment, unfortunately, as a private company, we can only help with the promotion of the destination, where it flies, by allowing it to obtain more passengers as part of the national promotion. However, as regards this last additional question, I must once again say that I have always advocated the principle of every privatisation for the benefit of the first company that is being sold, for the benefit of the State and not for the benefit of those who sell these companies. What's this all about? In addition to the price, which is important, but not the most important, we need to watch what happens to this company when the new owner takes over. Here is the source of all evil in the past period's missed privatisation moves, and I can list them quite a few, but I would not like to spread the problem here from this particular issue. I believe that, on the basis of the mistakes we have made in this area over the past period, these matters will not be repeated. I'm gonna go back to that flight connectivity again. We want Adria, as such, to find her own way, of course, within the legal scope of improving her business. All these discussions we have today and in the past days on the subject of Adria think they do not contribute. This does not mean that we must not talk about a difficult subject, but I believe that the problems are such that we will find it difficult to come up with an appropriate solution along this path. However, I wish that, in the case of matters that are not going in the right direction, we would find at least those key issues. Here we are studying on the side of a country of different variants in order to preserve what you said before – one such or another national airline. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u367	Thank you very much. You want a word? Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. The word will be given to Jan Mahnic, who will question Justice Minister Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u368	Thank you, Vice President. Minister! In early June 2013, a joint commitment was signed to improve the situation in the judiciary. It was signed by the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the then President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the current Minister of Justice. The joint undertaking specifically stressed that the Presidents of the Courts must create a culture of responsibility and transparency that fosters openness in the functioning of the courts of the public, thereby raising public confidence in the judiciary. In order to improve confidence in the judiciary, independence, impartiality, responsibility and quality of the trial, the judiciary can only do so. At the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that the Justice Scoreboard 2019 also shows that we are still at the bottom of confidence in the independence of judges and that we are at the top of investment in the judiciary. In recent times there have been quite a few stories about the situation in the Slovenian judiciary, which are certainly not proud of it. To go to a specific case – on Nova24TV.si, documents were published showing, for example, bias in the case at the Celje District Court, where President Petra Giacomelli is. This would have an impact on the fact that the case of compulsory settlement of three companies against the Radeče paper office is brought before the Constitutional Court and thus withholds enforcement, whereas in another similar case the court has decided quite differently. It is therefore a case from the Celje District Court, so-called compulsory settlement on the proposal of creditors, which have two diametric opposite decisions. In the first case, on 9 March 2017, the proposal for a compulsory settlement against Radeče’s debtor was lodged by Interexpo Group, Strelski Gaj and Strelski klub Central, but the court found that the legal arrangements of the institution of the insolvency law were incompatible with the Constitution, since it was intended to ensure disproportionate and inadmissible interference of debtors in the legal situation. The decision was therefore terminated by a request for a constitutional assessment until the Constitutional Court had decided. Trustees have thus suffered greater economic and business damage for two years. This same court, on 4 September 2018, concluded on 4 September 2018, a year and a half later, in the case of compulsory settlement against the debtor Valji, d.o.o., otherwise. At the request of the Proposer of the enforcement settlement of Elements Sklad, d.o.o., the District Court in Celje adopted a decision on the initiation of the enforcement settlement procedure over the debtor, arguing that the debtor had agreed to the initiation of the proceeding. So, according to the same procedure, the same court acts differently. In one case in March 2017, he refers the matter to the Constitutional Court because he considers it inconsistent with the Constitution and then in September of the following year under the same article, under the same law, according to the same rule applied to the case of the Radeče paper shop, and in the case of Elements Square, they decide. How is that possible, Madam Secretary? What should citizens think about an impartial judiciary in this case?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u370	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Mr. Ambassador! The question was that you would ask me about measures to ensure the impartiality of the trial and the appearance of impartiality in the district courts, for example at the Celje District Court. You yourself have set up a specific example that was presented on Nova24TV.si or on the Internet. I don't know a specific case. The Ministry of Justice, while respecting the independence of the judiciary, has certain powers relating to the supervision of judicial administration, tax control, administrative review, not substantive. The Court’s Office for the Control of the Organisation of Courts in its own right gives an indication of its purpose, and you yourself point out specific cases. If they were announced in advance, and if they were completed, it might be possible to explain in more detail, but, however, I have always said that, as Minister of Justice, I will not comment on specific cases except on what is within my jurisdiction. – We are talking again here, in the National Assembly, about specific cases. However, that the public, the kind and the kind that accompany us, will not come to the wrong conclusions, but would say that we can now debate here, but the evidence in the process that has been exposed both in one and in the other is unknown to us, at least not to me, because as the Minister of Justice, I do not have an insight into the substantive decision on individual matters, nor was I particularly interested in this particular matter, that I might know what it says in the media, what they are saying on Novi24TV and so on, so I find it difficult to comment on this particular matter. I would point out, however, that, under the Constitutional Code, the judiciary is independent, impartial, that different judges can come to different decisions in a materially similar case, taking into account the various evidence. Unfortunately, I cannot even comment on a concrete case as Minister of Justice if there are still open cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u371	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u372	I agree with you that the issue has been written in general, but this is still the practice of our parliamentary group in the mandate, when this Parliament led Mr Janko Weber, for he has rejected all oral parliamentary questions based on concrete cases; either local roads or judicial cases and so on, so that it has been written more generally since then. The point is that — not just this case, we already have, for example, completed stories or not yet clean — in this cell district court. We know about the case of TES, the freezing of the property of Mira Senica's lawyer, the conviction of Janez Janša on probation for a certain tweet, even though the jury has not pleaded guilty at all. And we are now witnessing that the President of this court, Mrs Petra Giacomelli, who is supposed to be connected to the SD party, should influence what will happen to the Radeče paper shop. Thus, we have an article of the law under which a compulsory settlement can be initiated, and the Celje District Court sends this to the Constitutional Court for review because they consider it incompatible with the Constitution. In a year and a half, they shall commence a compulsory settlement on the basis of this same article, which they have sent to the Constitutional Court for its assessment. Let me ask you something else, if you don't want to go straight to the case: How is it possible for a court to decide in one case not to initiate a compulsory settlement because it considers that the article of the law is inconsistent with the Constitution, and one and a half days later, on the basis of this same article, which they gave to the Constitutional Court, to initiate a compulsory settlement? It's not specifically this case, but let's just say it's a general case. It is said; for an article that is contrary to the Constitution, once yes, not once.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u374	Once again, this is a specific case that you are referring to. As Minister of Justice, I am not aware of specific cases and I am also not aware of the content of the constitutionality requirement, but certainly not of how it takes place in individual cases in Celje. I understand you, honourable Member of the SDS, that whenever you do not like any decision of the court, you are problematic. Unfortunately, since I've been Minister of Justice, I've been a witness. Here again, I believe that by commenting on open proceedings or specific cases, Members are interfering with the independence of the judiciary. At least that's how it's supposed to be, because I don't know if a case is already closed. Everything you're saying is that you've been watching about it on TV or on Nova24TV.si and that even here or online media, whatever it might be. Probably also on Novi24 TV said that this judge is close to SD or whatever. I don't know, I don't know, I reject these allegations, but once again; as Justice Minister, I won't talk about specific matters, I won't comment on them, at all, if they're still open, but if it's just a constitutional initiative, for an assessment, I should look at what's stated so that I can answer it more specifically. If you had at least some indication in your prediction, I would certainly have read at this time of the weekend everything written in this regard on various online media, on various televisions, and also what is available to me and you as citizens and citizens in such or other cases, so that you could comment on this too. For the moment, I repeat that I reject commenting on specific matters. If you were more specific about the question, you might be able to answer something more. I believe, however, it is always, unfortunately, so that in court all parties are not satisfied with the judge's decision to judge on the basis of evidence that it is difficult to say here which evidence, why, in an individual case, it was a decision. The most discontented is the party that was not decided in her favor or in her own way. From this, I also understand this party’s criticism of the judge’s decision in one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u376	I think it would be no different, Minister, even if you had written this case specifically, because you have already said that you do not comment on open procedures. Thus, the matter would be brought to an even quicker conclusion, or the president of your party, who is also the president of this National Assembly, would reject my oral question. In contrast to you, I think it is right that both Members and others comment on open court proceedings. This is common practice in foreign countries. I still think that freedom of speech applies to us, and I have not observed, either by law or by law, that Members or any other interested public should not comment on open court proceedings. I've been following this story, and I've asked because the case is supported by documents on which the court heads and signatures are from, I think, the President of this court. If what a story is, you can’t ask an oral question about a story that you don’t know about, whether it’s real or not. But if it's a story where documents are published, it's different. I just want to know how it is possible for the Court, in two cases under the same article of the law, not to decide in one case and to refer this article to the Constitutional Court, and one and a half years later to the other, on the basis of this article, which it has sent to the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court has not yet stated its decision as I have been informed. If we ask Members about this and if this is the pressure on some of the independent judiciary, then I really don't know. But as I have already said, the judiciary can only do the most to give and not only give, but that it will actually be independent and impartial. Of course, as you have two parties, one will never be satisfied with judgment. However, there is so much more to the point where the judge of the Celle District Court, Peter Giacomelli, is politically infected in the sense that she is politically defined for a particular party and that, in this case, when we are talking about the newspaper Radeče, she has decided precisely because of her political definition. I don't have anything to do with the paper. Even with this company, on the basis of which Elements Sklad decided that he could go into a forced settlement, nothing. However, apparently the stories in the cell court show that it is necessary to ask what is the effect of impartiality on Judge Peter Giacomelli. I therefore propose, Vice-President, that this be discussed. In view of the fact that this will not be voted on, I will also draw up a written question, so that you can learn about this case and that we can also see whether you will take any action against the President of the Celje District Court, Petra Giacomelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u377	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 18 June 2019, in the framework of the votes. Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u378	Thank you for your word. In the previous term, we have revealed in Levica a series of questions sent to your predecessor, Mrs Bratušek, in the position of Minister of Infrastructure that Slovenia does not implement any measures to eliminate energy poverty, that energy poverty is a very big problem for us. We have 40% of households, that's all households that live below the threshold of energy poverty. We have therefore called for an urgent meeting, at which, inter alia, the conclusion was reached that the Government should adopt within three months a plan for the spending of five million euros to subsidise measures from efficient energy consumption. In the five years of implementation of the programme, not a single cent was absorbed on this item. This was just before the government fell and therefore the decision was not realized, and you, Mrs Bratušek, inherited this state of emergency. At the Minister's hearing, we have confronted you with the question of what you will do about the use of these funds and the elimination of energy poverty. You replied, quote: “Why these 5 million, as you say, are not used or not used, honestly at this point I do not know, I will check, but any euro that improves or improves in this area will, I believe, do everything I can to make use of it.” End of quote. Then, in March this year, we could see that 5 million cohesion funds are still lying in drawers that are unreachable. Your ministry wanted to transfer this project to the Eco Fund, and this Eco Fund again put the responsibility back on the Ministry. Therefore, it is very kind of you to express your principled willingness to address this problem, and I ask: Have you now cleared up this relationship with the Eco Fund? Is this ping-pong over? If it isn't, why isn't it? If it is, which is what I'm more interested in: Who is now implementing measures to eliminate energy poverty financed by the Eco-Fund? What are the measures? What is the dynamic on the implementation of measures and the use of cohesion funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u379	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u380	First of all, thank you very much for the question. I can tell you that this is one of the projects that I have been working on practically since the very beginning of my mandate. A very important project, even though it's relatively little money. Yes, I can say that we have now found a common language, that the Eco Fund will implement and implement these calls. It was necessary to provide some additional employees not only for this but for the things that the Eco Facility is implementing. They weren't fully heard, I'm talking about the number of employees they wanted to go to Eco Fund, they got a little less, but whatever; this energy poverty or money project is supposed to go into implementation this year. What belongs to energy poverty, perhaps, Mr. Kordish, you know. The specific invitation to tender is not yet ready so that I can give you an accurate answer at one of the next meetings, I hope and believe, what we will do through this project, which will be carried out by the Eco Facility technically. My wish, my sincere wish, is that these things happen as soon as possible, but sometimes in the state or public administration, some things last longer than they would have wanted. But here we are also driven by this framework of financial perspective, because it is a European resource, and if we were to lose for a very long time, we could lose it. It's not a lot of money, it's relatively 5 million not so little, but when we're talking about our financial plan or our European funds and it's supposed to be 500 low-income households to deal with energy poverty, as we said it would be a replacement of boilers or hot water heaters, radiators or something else. Once again, specifically, list the measures when they are actually quite ready – if you allow it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u381	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u382	Thank you for your word. Thank you for your answer. If I understand correctly, the Eco Fund is now an implementing carrier for the eradication of energy poverty, and to this end you have also provided him with certain additional jobs. All right, well, that's for some other purpose. And if I understand correctly, these funds should be spent or spent by the end of the year. However, the method of spending these funds is to get out of the tender and then – what? Households apply for this invitation to tender, while you do not yet have the exact form of the measures for which this money is intended. That's it. Me? Okay. In such a case, I would like to thank you for your answer, and then I expect that supplement to the next session you mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u383	Thank you very much. Madam Minister [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Let's move on. Primož Siter will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Xenia Clampfer. I also ask you to determine whether you want an oral answer or a written one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u384	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Although it seems at first sight that we have brought society to one level, where men and women are equal, equally represented, this is not the case. If we take a closer look at statistics, say quality of life data, the labour market, poverty, we see that there is a big gap here and that it is absolutely necessary to address and eliminate this. As far as poverty is concerned, in Slovenia we have 268,000 people living below the poverty threshold, most of these people are women. Every fifth Slovenian woman lives below the poverty threshold, which is a worrying statistic. As far as poverty is concerned, they are the most affected, the weakest group, women over 65. Then data on the labour market show that capitalism towards women is particularly inexcusable, unforgivable. In the European Union, the employment rate of women is significantly lower than that of men. Women are mainly involved in less-paid professions in education, health care, social work, care and so on. In Slovenia, too, the trend has been markedly negative in recent years. Between 2010 and 2017, the gender pay gap increased from 0.9% to 8%. The wage gap between men and women must be urgently and as effectively as possible addressed. This fact was also pointed out a good week ago by conference participants to the same pay for equal work and rightly concluded that lower wages also mean lower pensions or that inequality today means inequality tomorrow. In this regard, I ask and count on the reply of the Minister at the following meeting: How do the Ministry explain these data and where do they see the reasons for increasing the gender pay gap in Slovenia? What measures and interventions to the labour market can Slovenia ensure greater gender equality? How do they comment on the fact that the situation of women is worse in the public sector? Will these data be followed by measures? At the end of the day, about pensions. In view of the fact that the amendments to pension legislation provide for the determination of the rate of 40 years of supplementary pension for both sexes at the same level, i.e. 63 per cent: How does the Ministry intend to address the big differences between pensioners and pensioners? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food Dr. Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u386	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Biodiversity is what makes Slovenia especially and also rich in comparison to other countries in the European Union or Europe as well as the world. On Ptuj, too, we can boast of a beautiful and rich cultural heritage, as well as an environment that also offers natural riches that we can admire every day. One of these is the Ptuj Lake, as well as the different kinds of birds that dwell on the Ptuj Lake or on the Ptuj Lake — in these permanent waters or along liquid waters. We have the special honor of having a river seagull that actually houses only on Lake Ptuj. In 2017 we even had 835 pairs of these river gulls, but unfortunately last April this natural disaster happened for Ptuj. There was a mass death of birds on Lake Ptuj. In the final report of the National Veterinary Institute and the Directorate for Food Safety, Veterinary and Plant Safety of 18 April 2018, the excluded infectious diseases of animals and the use of plant protection products in agriculture were killed as a result. The birds were killed because of the failure of vital organs, which was probably due to the use of toxic substances, then reported to the Food Safety Authority but could not be explained, for which the toxic substance was concerned. The report also includes the intention of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to consult local and foreign experts in the field of environment, ornithology, or veterinaryity, in response to the question sent on 24 May 2018. That's why I want to know: What was the cause of the mass death of birds in the Ptuj field and also in the lake in 2018? Have you been able to determine the source of contamination? How did the polluter, if identified, respond to the damage he caused? What measures have you taken to prevent further poisoning? How many other potential sources of poisoning have been recorded? What measures have you taken or potential pollutants themselves to minimise the potential for similar poisonings that occurred last year 2018? And also: What foreign institute or experts were involved in clarifying this bird’s death? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u388	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you for asking. Given that you have already mentioned quite a few of the procedures that have been carried out in the meantime, but allow me to tell you what investigations have been carried out and what the current conclusion of all these findings is. It is true that the Directorate for Safe Food, Veterinary and Plant Protection responded immediately to the deaths of birds in the Ptuj Lake, where samples were taken and numerous virological tests were carried out to avoid listing of them, to all possible viral causes of disease in birds. At the same time, samples were taken for bacteriological tests, which also did not confirm the presence of pathogenic bacteria. Pathoanatomical investigations have shown severe heart and bowel damage. On the basis of further laboratory results, it was found that the cause of death was the failure of vital organs of birds which could be caused by the operation of a toxic substance. Thus, toxicology tests have been carried out below, and more than a thousand different chemicals have been carried out. Only the presence of the active substance tembotrione used for the control of weeds in maize has been identified from plant protection products at low concentrations but has not been shown to be acutely toxic to birds. Thus, the effects of contamination with various plant protection products, as said on more than a thousand samples, have also been excluded. Since we have exhausted all the possibilities available in our home laboratories, the only conclusion that laboratories abroad should be included was that all the research has been carried out. The laboratories in Denmark were included, which also failed to identify the key cause in the first tests. In order to continue the tests with chemical substances that could be carried out below, however, a greater number of healthy birds would be needed due to comparative tests, which means that more healthy birds should be killed. In view of the fact that river gullets are among the endangered species, which are also protected, the investigation, in agreement with the DOPS representatives, then stopped at this point. For it was essentially a question of whether to cut into the fact that more healthy birds would then be taken away in order to continue. Given that the probability was relatively low, as I mentioned, already a thousand different chemicals have been investigated in Slovenia. So we still keep all the samples of those birds that were affected at the time, infected. However, as it is said, at the point where we should cut into healthy river gullies, it was somehow agreed that this investigation should not be carried out from here on out. As regards the continuation of the issue of contamination to the wider environment, which you have also addressed. However, this is not within our jurisdiction, and then we should ask the environment. So we keep these samples, as we say, and if there was any other way to get other results, of course we would be interested. However, since the cause has not been established, we cannot take any further action on this issue to penalise the perpetrators.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u389	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u390	Thank you for your word. I just have one more question: Does regular surveillance of the bird population in and around the Ptuj Lake indicate a greater deviation from the population before the event in 2018 and in what species? Only if it's that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u391	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u392	No, major deviations from April 2018, as stated, were not detected. Of course, matters continue to be monitored because the cause has not been established. There is a higher concentration or a higher presence of sampling in purely accidental cases in order to possibly prevent a possible recurrence.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u393	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u394	Thank you, President. Dear Minister! Last week, the government's proposed intervention law on the removal of 11 wolves and 200 brown bears from nature was echoed in public. The intervention law was drafted by the Ministry of Agriculture and was submitted to the Government by the Ministry of Environment and Space. The main reason for addressing the emergency bill is the overcrowded wolves and brown bears, which, by their presence in the vicinity of pastures and habitats, have caused threats to the population and their property. The data show that farmers are rightly concerned about the changed way the beast behaves and approaches to the village or to man. They wonder if they will have to abandon farming and leave pastures to cultivation because of wolf attacks on their pastures. It is known that the great beasts, such as the wolf, the brown bear and the lynx, are protected by the European Union Habitats Directive. Thus, the EU policy of these great beasts protects and is, among other things, important for maintaining the role of predators in the food chain and the balance of nature. Thus, it is only under certain conditions that the state authorities of beasts may withdraw from nature. These are, for example, threats to public safety and serious damage to livestock farming. It is interesting, however, that the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia has for two consecutive years ruled that all the conditions for derogations as permitted by that Directive have not been met before. This is where I get the question: Why did we wait so long and allow the bears and wolves to multiply in our midst? Who in this case has failed so? The Government governs the removal of beasts from nature every year by decrees, but the shooting was not carried out because of the decisions of the Administrative Court. In addition, not only were wolves and bears multiplied, but also jackals in Crassus. They attack mainly young and newborn grains and deer and cause damage on farms and in the forest. Given that the jackals in Slovenia are a hunting and protected species, their withdrawal from nature also requires a decree. The shooting has not yet taken place, as in 2016 the Ministry of Environment and Space explained that it must first identify the number of animals, learn its behaviour and determine the damage. On the other hand, the Ministry of Agriculture sought to ensure that the jackal was no longer protected. I want to know: Has anything moved in this area? When can the inhabitants of Crassus expect the shooting of jackals and take sides with the inhabitants of Notranjska? Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u395	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u396	Thank you for asking. True, we've had a lot of discussions on the subject of the beast these past few days. Personally, whenever such decisions are to be made, I have a difficult heart. Indeed, it is important to me, as for the Environment Minister, that we have a favourable state of all these species, I think we can be proud of that. That so far we can also be proud of the fact that we had very high tolerance of the local community, both to bear and to wolf. In the past, however, it happened that the rulings in court were falling and so there was a little less shooting, the population was quite well multiplied and more contacts are coming. Although the damage after the bear and the wolf has been falling in recent years, there has indeed been a greater increase in this year, up to 100%. But when we talk about jackals, the jackal was insured in 1993, but the jackal, unlike the wolf and the bear, is in Annex 5. However, Annex 5 means — unlike 4 where the wolf and the bear are — that it can be managed in order to be removed from nature by management. This means, in other words, that it can be classified as game hunting and, at the moment, our ministry has placed in public treatment a regulation that removes jackals from protected species. This Regulation will be held in public debate until 12 July. What does this mean later when this Regulation is adopted? This means that the jackal will be managed with 10-year plans and then with an annual plan. However, it is important that this management is such that it does not endanger the species. The current state of the jackal is in a very favourable state. The Department of Nature Protection has found that it is already far from being threatened, so such a measure makes sense. But as I have already said, even now that it will be managed under the Law on Hunting, it will be managed in such a way that it will not be compromised. It is said that the species will still be in favourable condition, but it will be removed from nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u397	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u398	Minister, thank you for your answer. I welcome this decision, and I am also pleased that this matter will spread to the jackals. You know, in Crassus, it's a big, big problem. Jackal was exactly the reason why farmers had abandoned their activities, abandoned their various other activities, which we also co-financed our time. We also demanded that the change expand, but this was exactly one of the conditions why they no longer decided to do so. The jackal as such, you know, has never been a endangered animal, never been to Crassus. Neither the bear nor the wolf. So this is where we made a mistake, people. We have protected certain animals that have never been protected before and have settled themselves, if we say so. With this protection, we have only done that with 400 bears, which Slovenia is transferring, it has become a thousand. Now we're going for the shot. With all due respect to all animal lovers, we're animal lovers too, but it doesn't go that way anymore. This is said to be the case if nature does not do so, we must do it because it does us harm; it does harm and causes alarm among people, which is even more important. We are very afraid that there will be no worse attack on a person or on children. This is how we welcome and hope that this will be done as soon as possible. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u399	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary, to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u400	Yes, the jackal came to Slovenia on a natural course. So it didn't settle, but it gradually spread. This enlargement is also illustrated by, say, harmful cases that we did not have, say, 2008, 2009. Then 2013 was around 2,000 euros, and now there are 20,000. That is how this number is growing and also harmful cases, but, as I said, under European Union legislation, we can put it among game hunting, which we must manage so as not to endanger its existence.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u401	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertonclj, who is absent, and the Minister of Infrastructure mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u402	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister of Infrastructure and all other ministers, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the third development axis in this southern part of the north part of the third development axis, the Constitutional Court has decided as it is. I must say, of course, I'm glad that it's decided as it is. It is now clear that there are no legal obstacles or legal concerns to the construction of this work. Of course, to start construction, however, there is still a need to arrange construction documentation that is the basis for the final closure of this financial structure. The financial structure, however, is the basis for the State guarantee, which will make it possible to obtain more favourable funding for the project. We all know that we've lost a lot of years around this third development axis, and that's not even the fault of us sitting here, in fact, we've all pushed the project together now to this final stage. Madam Minister, I ask you: What are the activities envisaged for the preparation of the investment-building documentation that will close the financial structure and enable the acquisition of the State guarantee? Since the realization of this third development axis is also closely linked to the use of public funds, on this occasion I would also like to ask the Minister of Finance, who is not present today, to answer me orally at the next meeting. I would like to ask you: Will and under what conditions will the Ministry of Finance support the approval of the State guarantee for the third development axis? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u403	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u404	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking, too. Yes, I am also pleased that the Constitutional Court, after several hours of the Ministry of Infrastructure, has made it a priority in about one year to resolve this issue, and, of course, I am pleased that we can continue to work on this southern part of the third development axis as well. As far as the upper north is concerned, the activity has already been accelerated. There is an investment programme that we are not fully satisfied with at the Ministry, so we have requested certain corrections from Dars, but whatever – we have a document on the table, and this is the basis for us to start talking in concrete terms about providing money, because there are fairly accurate assessments in there. And if there is no doubt about the Divač-Koper project to me personally that the guarantee that will be valued for the actual debt will be paid to the State, because the entire debt is anyway included in the state sector, Dars is slightly different. Dars is out of the country sector, so we're a little more careful with Dars' guarantees, but the law is ready and I believe – the minister is now on a somewhat longer business trip – I believe that when he comes back, we will also make a dot in the bond law, and you will get him here. The bill of guarantee is one for both investments, because it is a major infrastructure project, and I believe that we will all, as you said before, continue to lead this project in the right direction. There is no obstacle now that at the bottom of this third development axis, the lower part of the northern part, we do not take things forward as we should; first with the designers, then with the land. I think that things are going in the right direction and, as has been said, as promised this year, the actual construction of this long-awaited and necessary road connection between Koroška and Ljubljana should also actually begin. It won't be easy. We all know, this is also a difficult route, Dars says it will be one of the more difficult if not even their most demanding projects. We are aware, but I believe that we are taking things in the right direction, and we are also very strict about this investment. Of course, when the law is here, I want to say to myself, the law of guarantee, I want as much support as possible in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u405	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u406	Minister, thank you for your answers. As you yourself said, the guarantee law will come to the National Assembly and I am glad that it will come to the National Assembly, because for 25 years we have been on the principle level all for this third development axis, and the road is still not. I am pleased that it will come to the National Assembly, where it will be clear who is behind the third development axis and who is not. Given that we are all in favour, I also expect unanimous support for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u407	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, would you like to add anything? The next is Sonibo Knezak, who will question the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andre Bertonclj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u408	Thank you, Chairman. I have some questions for the minister for whom I would like to be answered orally at the next meeting. In the light of the recent presentation of the budget plans that we had in Brdo for the coming year, it is noted that there is a continuation of the trend of a rapid reduction in government debt at the same time as the surplus of the state budget and for several years of sustained economic growth, which even exceeds the forecast in reality. Slovenia has been among the most successful European countries for years, both at the level of economic growth and at the rate of debt reduction. The fiscal rule from us, however, requires budgetary surpluses, their use, to reduce debt. It is clear, however, that debt is reduced significantly by growth rather than by the use of budgetary surpluses. For more than a decade, the largest victims have been such directing funds for investments that are substantially smaller than they could have been. At the same time, we cannot deny that investments have a significant impact on economic growth and employment. The fiscal rule requires a balanced budget from us, but it allows us at least some flexibility and I am sure that it would be more ambitious to seek a room of manoeuvre to provide resources for development and investment. Therefore, the questions I am referring to the Minister are the following: Are you inclined to take the initiative after a slightly slower reduction in debt in exchange for increasing investment? Second: Will you propose to increase investment funds in the forthcoming draft budget? And last: If you do not intend to seek investment funds in the context of a slower debt reduction, what are your alternatives? Let me remind you that in all areas, especially from the elderly, building the homes of the elderly, not least meeting the standards in this area – we have everything, we have plans, but we do not have the resources. Therefore, the thought of slowing down the decline by some percentage. Otherwise, we are among the most successful. The average of the seven is 80%, we are supposed to have 66 this year. For your answer, Minister, I thank you in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u409	Thank you very much. You will receive an oral response at the next meeting as you wish. Luka Mesec will ask the Minister for Culture mag. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u410	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr. Secretary. Prime Minister Marjan Sarec said this shortly after his term of office in autumn 2018, either state-owned or partly state-owned companies asked to consider whether the desire for profit justifies tolerance for intolerance. He was, of course, referring to the advertisements of these companies in some extremely right-wing media and portals, and he did not have to mention them, because they actually came forward on their own, which they were, in particular, talking about the New24 and the democracy magazine. They are both closely linked to the SDS, and then known to spread hatred, intolerance, half-truths, falsehoods, slanders, gossip, and so on. In short, it's the activity of these media. This calls on the Prime Minister to ensure that state-owned companies or partly state-owned enterprises do not finance these media, but we have recently come to funding them directly from the state. In fact, at the regular annual invitation of the Ministry of Culture to co-finance the programming content of the media in 2019, both Democracy magazine and Nova24 received substantial funding; Democracy slightly over EUR 20 000, Nova24 slightly over EUR 21 000, which is just a thousand less than, for example, Work. In short, in the company of the newspapers Dnevnik, Work, Gorenski voice, publications such as LUD Literature, Beletrine and so on, we have in between these two media, which have received substantial funds, are among the highest recipients. They rarely got over 20,000; they got them. At first, I was sure that when I saw this, they had reported a special project. But, for example, Nova24 did not report a special project where it would be slightly excluded from their core activity, but it only reported an activity, a project titled News from Slovenia. The news from Slovenia, however, is; see, the objectives of the invitation to tender are like this. You have, say, the first objective: “to ensure the realization of the right to public information and to the public to information”. Let's see what the most widely read news on this portal is today. That's the news with the title, "Crazy." A new leftist ideological police has been set up to prosecute journalists! And I'm asking, where is the right of the public to information? Secondly, we have among the criteria for strengthening the rule of law. The most commented news today is – do you know what on Novi24? Some photographs of this judge, who was beaten in Maribor, were already in the ER with skull and facial fractures and hands, and they promote some exhibitionism by publishing pictures. I'm curious, Mr. Secretary: What's the public interest here? What's the reason for the ministry like this? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u411	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u412	Thank you for asking. Greetings to all present! Somehow, I really understand these frustrations very well, but it still has to be said that in a media law such as, in fact, it is true for everything and it is very wide-ranging. However, I must point out that in this case it is not the financing of the media as such, but rather the financing of the project. The Slovenian News Project, such as it has been reported, has decided, on all the criteria of the expert commission, which is the consultative body of the Minister and is composed of media professionals and others with media-related fields. Thus, the application of the project in this particular case took place on the basis of the information given in the application – of course, the whole project was also assessed according to legal criteria. All that follows, however, is that through the electoral process, through the review of the annual reports, and if any deviations from the declared quality and scope of the project are found, the Ministry of Culture has the basis to break the contract and require reimbursement. However, I must point out that this call, which he has been talking about, has in the last 10, 11 years alone distributed more than €7 and a half million to various media in the field of print media, electronic media, radio programmes and television programmes. Of course, we don't all like the way things have been going on, and that is why we are now putting into public debate in a very short time, so to speak, an upgraded reform of this media law, which is what it takes to say, and is really adapting our media landscape to the challenges and technologies of the 21st century. You are also well aware that at the end of last week we have received another warning from the Council of Europe, which expresses concern about the impunity of our country's hate speech, so that we have serious problems in this area. I therefore anticipate and hope that, even through a public debate on corrections to the upgrade of the new media law in the summer months, the public debate will take two months to come together. I must say that these corrections have been corrected by the largest experts in this field in our Republic, and I hope that we will come up with a really relevant proposal for this law in the autumn. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u413	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u414	Thank you for your word. I don't think we just have a problem with non-sanctioning hate speech, we have a problem with open state support for hate speech. The media we're talking about is supported by your ministry. The media we are talking about is called Nova 24, supported by many companies in part or majority state ownership. This medium hasn't hated since yesterday, this media has been gossiping all the time, blabbering all around itself, spreading half-truths, untruths, separating the public and so on. I do not understand what kind of expert commission it is that, by criteria such as quality, originality, communicationability, the currentness of the author's publication – this was the most valuable, 44 points – can be attributed to such a media, whether it is suitable for co-financing or State support. I'm also interested, Mr. Secretary: Where can we see this checkpoint? I looked online, but there are no available checkpoints to see exactly how and why the commission decided on this case. However, I am interested, and this is a complement to the question given what you have said; it is said that you too are for a sharper action against the enemy speech and that the commission here has acted in an eccentric manner against your political opinion: Have you resolved this commission or are you planning to resolve it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u415	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u416	Thank you. One more time. We do not reward or finance the media, but a project that applies to the tender. These projects go to dozens of different media and are all subject to the same rules. We cannot at one subjective level now separate what we like and what we don't. This is probably not the interest of any democratic society. Once again, as far as the expert commission is concerned, the expert committee is the consultative body of the minister and if the minister does not trust these experts, then who should he trust. Again, I repeat that there is a thorough overhaul in the preparation, in fact, the proposal is more than not ready, which will fundamentally change the relations within the regulation, so to speak, of the media landscape. That's as much as I can say and guarantee right now. So again, it is not the intention not to accept the obvious that the Ministry of Culture finances hate speech, but in fact the opposite; with all the means, with all the powerful, with all its expertise, with all its professional expertise, we share in the fact that this growing trend with this complementary legislation not only weaken, of course, not only prohibit, because the intensity is not prohibited, but also regulate, to empower the Czech associations, all the press associations in the Republic of Slovenia, that they also start, of course, with the help of the Ministry of Culture, in some way to regulate the relationship within their character in terms of what is good, what is wrong and so on. [[…]] There are many of these measures, but this is probably one longer debate somewhere else, if not another, in a public debate over the summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u417	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion of the answers at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u418	Thank you for saying that again. Mr Minister, I have never talked about the media as such, but I am talking about the specific project Nova 24, which was announced on the invitation of the Ministry of Culture. The project is called News from Slovenia. I have read to you some of the headlines of this news before, say: For spreading against the immigrant multiculture propaganda among young people in Slovenia is not to be feared. First news. The other news, this one carries it, is an article about a drunk driver. Then we have an article, yesterday was the first article, where this judge, who was beaten in Maribor, has skull fractures, facial bones and so on, is being teased by a lover and gossiped about being beaten by her husband and so on. That's why I asked you. It's just a project you supported. This is their news from Slovenia. I therefore asked you where the strengthening of the rule of law and social state is in here as a criterion for ensuring the exercise of the right to public information and information, which is the criterion of the call for tender. If the expert committee, as you say, has decided that this is part of this framework, I think that this expert committee should be resolved. Given that I have not received satisfactory explanations from the Minister, I propose that we discuss this seriously in the National Assembly; but how we will deal with state support for the media, media projects that are explicitly hostile, whose main activity is mud, slander, spreading false truths, half-truths, fear and hatred, such as New 24 and Democracy. And how we're going to act about it. Finally, I'm going to add that it all stinks even more to me that you've granted them funding just to have peace in front of them. Because when I look at this schedule, you practically didn't support any of the yellow media, with the exception of Nova 24 and Democracy. It is known which party they belong to and what excuses this client may sometimes have to look through his fingers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u419	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 18 June 2019, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on to the last report. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask Health Minister Aleš Šabedra a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u420	Thank you very much, Mr President. For us in the SAB, health is one of the priorities and, of course, the quality of the building fund of Slovenian hospitals and health homes belongs to me. Already in January, in the context of the question I raised to the Minister of Health at the moment, I pointed out that the cooling system is not properly regulated in many Slovenian hospitals and health homes. I recalled the emergency call of doctors from UKC Maribor on unsustainable living and working conditions in our second largest Slovenian hospital, since temperatures in certain rooms, especially surgical columns, in the area of gynaecology, infectology and operating rooms exceeded 30 degrees Celsius and more. The heat is at the door and the fear of the employees and the patients is, of course, justified. I then asked the minister what the rehabilitation projects were like. The Minister replied to me that both UKC Maribor and UKC Ljubljana were not built with a central air conditioner and, of course, need comprehensive renovations, which costs. I am aware that the provision of funds is a major problem and that all the resources necessary to implement these measures will be impossible to provide at once, but I am still interested in: Is the Ministry doing anything in this area? I personally noticed in the media certain records that UKC Maribor is implementing certain air conditioning measures for certain spaces. At the same time, I would point out that for energy recovery – energy recovery does not contain cooling projects – however, Eco Fund funds are available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u421	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u422	Thank you for the floor, thank you for the question, honourable Member. As has already been explained, the situation in Slovenian hospitals in the area of air conditioning or cooling is, of course, different from the hospital to the hospital, mainly because the number of individual hospitals varies and because these facilities are also different. For all the newer buildings built in the last decade or in the last decades, it has been planned and implemented in a comprehensive way so that there is a different system of air conditioning, taking into account the state of the technology in this area at the time they were built. Air conditioning was also regulated in all facilities where energy renovation or reconstruction was carried out, or the adaptation of the facilities. Under the current legislation, the user and the manager of hospital facilities is a hospital which is obliged to manage and maintain facilities. The above also includes the implementation of appropriate measures in the field of air conditioning or cooling of facilities. According to the information provided by the hospitals, hospitals also approach this and provide in their financial plans funding for maintenance of existing air-conditioning facilities, replacement and the purchase of additional facilities annually. We do not claim to be satisfied with this situation because it is not satisfactory. Especially in larger hospitals, i.e. in both clinical centres, where facilities are higher and are also old or of different ages, this problem is greater and is also regulated. However, all investments in both UKCs in the last decades and those being implemented are considered to include and will continue to include air conditioning. On 12 February, the Ministry received a document identifying the investment project for the investment project Cooling conditions regulation in the UKC Maribor – the rehabilitation/replacement of cooling aggregates, the rehabilitation or replacement of cooling aggregates with the corresponding cooling towers in the UKC Maribor. The document submitted shows that the estimated investment values amount to EUR 1 million 594 thousand and EUR 401 for the implementation of the investment are EUR 1 million 243 thousand. The budget of the Ministry for 2019 does not have the resources to implement the proposed investment, but we have classified the investment as a priority for implementation in 2020. The Ministry of Health is also actively carrying out activities and drawing on European funds in the context of the operations that we are preparing for the public calls of the Ministry of Infrastructure relating to the energy rehabilitation of hospitals. Co-financing from the Cohesion Fund was granted for energy rehabilitation to two hospitals, namely Trbovlje Hospital and Novo Mesto Hospital. In the general hospitals of Celje and Jesenice, public procurement is expected before the end of the summer, and further operations will be prepared in autumn, for which we are keenly looking for an interest in carrying out operations under the Energy Contraction model. UKC Maribor replied to our invitation in 2015, this may only be in your information, to mediate energy recovery needs that he would not participate in the project. So far, we have not benefited from the Eco Fund's subsidies because we have been preparing operations to co-finance with the EU. In the future, however, we will examine whether any investment could also be made by means of eco-fund subsidies, such as the replacement of windows in hospitals or other energy rehabilitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-06-17-SDZ8-Redna-09.ana.u423	Thank you very much. You don't want a word. I thank the President of the Government, ministers and ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government for the answers given. I hereby end the first item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 18 June 2019, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I also adjourn the ninth session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended 17.) JUNE 2019 AT 20.29.)
