ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members! Nice greetings to the government representatives as well! I begin with the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Maša Kociper, Ferenc Horváth, Franz Trček from 12 noon onwards, Igor Zorčič from 16:00 onwards, Mateja Udovč from 10 a.m. and Aljaž Kovačič. We're moving to 2. IN 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is an additional draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and an additional draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2021. In the context of agenda items 2 and 3, the National Assembly will first carry out joint introductory presentations and joint presentations on the views of the groups of Members. The Government has submitted the supplementary draft budget to the National Assembly for consideration. For further explanation, I give the floor to the Minister. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u2	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! One of the most important documents of this country, the state budgets for 2020 and 2021 is before you. They will determine the scope and structure of the use of more than €10 billion. And not only that, you will determine the direction of this country's development and pave the way for the sustainability of public finances. Budgets are not only about how much the state can give and what it belongs to, but about the management of public money and the responsibility that must take into account both the developmental and social component when aware and concerned about the long-term sustainability of public finances. The draft budgets for 2020 and 2021 confirm that Slovenia will maintain a high level of social security after six years of economic growth, with twice the economic growth rate of the euro area countries, and will further strengthen the fragmented social and family policy system. The measures are also geared towards faster activation of the working population and longer working activities, which also contributes to a more favourable social status. The active management of social and family policies will also contribute to improving the social situation of individuals by raising minimum wages and coordinating pensions. The development component is also visible and embedded in both budgets, as funds for investments are increasing at both national and local level. Investments in soft science content, support for technological development projects, digitisation, investment in economic infrastructure and development centres, incentives for new businesses and their growth and development are also increasing. Important development funds for local level are the funds under the agreement for the development of regions and investment transfers to municipalities in general. This appropriation is intended to cover investments in the water sector, sustainable mobility projects, energy renovation of buildings for rural development programmes and co-financing of investment projects of municipalities. In particular, I would stress that the budget, in addition to integral resources, provides additional resources through specific budgetary instruments established under the Public Finance Act. Thus, budget programmes are also co-financed by funds outside the budget funds, such as the Climate Fund, the Water Fund, the Forest Fund, the Health Investment Fund, the Student Concession Fee Fund. The budgets are prepared on the basis of the adopted framework for the preparation of the budgets of the 2020-2022 sector approved by the National Assembly this April and under the Fiscal Rule Act. In addition, the budget takes into account the current situation in the international and domestic business environment, which shows a slowdown in economic growth, both last year and this year, and the increased risks to growth over the next two years. For 2019, Umarja estimated 2.8% of economic growth and 3% of economic growth for 2020. A similar slowdown is forecasted by the international institutions and the European Commission. The government responds to the current situation quickly and with great care, taking into account the risks we face in the domestic and in particular the foreign business environment. In this light, the Government has taken due account of the warnings expressed at the meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly and the State Council in the supplementary proposal for the state budgets for 2020 and 2021 and the warnings of the Fiscal Council regarding the financial impact of the individual measures taken following the transmission of the draft budgets to the National Assembly. The supplementary draft budgets thus take into account a package of tax changes or so-called tax optimizations adopted by the National Assembly on 23 October 2019. These changes, however, mean a reduction in income tax revenues, which are balanced by an increase in capital burden, and partly by measures to increase the efficiency of the collection of public levies. At the same time, labour congestion also means strengthening purchasing power through higher net earnings of the population with a positive impact on domestic consumption. It also makes sense in the supplementary draft budgets to take into account the decision adopted on 18 October 2019 by the Parliamentary Committees on Infrastructure and the Environment and for the economy. They proposed to the government to provide sufficient funds for the construction of the western bypass of Slovenska Bistrica. The investment in the construction of a Western railway in Slovenska Bistrica is one of the investments which has a multiplier for economic growth. The supplementary draft budgets also take into account the provisions of the Social Security Benefits Act adopted on 29 October this year and therefore propose additional resources to increase the number of seats in public works programmes. The state budget for 2020 plans to spend €10.358 billion, and for 2021 it is €10 billion 455 million. The budget surplus, i.e. the surplus of revenue over expenditure on cash flows, is projected to reach €415 million in 2020 and 0.8% of gross domestic product in 2020. In 2021, however, it is still planned at EUR 657 million and 1.2% of gross domestic product. The State budget thus contributes significantly to the achievement of the public financial objectives for the whole sector of the country under assessment by the European Commission. At the end of October, the Fiscal Council published an assessment of the compatibility of the draft budgets for 2020 and 2021 with existing domestic fiscal rules. As we expected from the Ministry of Finance, the assessment of the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Slovenia confirms that the draft budgets are consistent with the rules. I stress that the draft budgets for 2020 and 2021 are in line with the domestic fiscal rule. Let me stress the following. The level of expenditure of the State budget proposals does not exceed the limits set out in this house set in spring by the decree. However, the level of expenditure for the state sector exceeds those limits only because of the statistical adjustment published by the Statistical Office at the end of September, i.e. after the deadline for preparing amendments to the decree. Next. The assessed structural balance complies with the provisions of the Fiscal Rule Act and complies with the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact. Next. The increase in expenditure, from which certain cyclical categories are deducted in 2020, does not exceed the long-term average of potential economic growth, which is once again consistent, I stress, in line with the European Union's spending rule. And beyond. The country's debt is gradually falling to the limit of 60% of gross domestic product, resulting from the Stability and Growth Pact. In short, we have, we can say this by comparison, one of the best budgets, both in terms of the surpluses shown and the reduction of public debt among the European countries. In its assessment, the Fiscal Council draws attention to certain risks in the implementation of fiscal policy and points out some inconsistencies in the assessments. We are fully aware of these risks at the Ministry of Finance. The risks are accompanied by the preparation of budget documents every time, as the preparation is based on forecasts and assessments of economic trends and budgetary flows. As you know, the evaluation of economic growth is given by an independent professional institution of Umar. Particularly uncertain is the assessment of the situation of the economy in the cycle, which is the basis on which fiscal rules are based, so at the Ministry of Finance, we monitor the situation and, if necessary, we act on the provisions of the Public Finance Act. We can also act or act if we adopt budgets with financial effects that would jeopardise compliance with the rules. This refers to the Fiscal Council's finding that budgetary documents do not contain the effects of all proposed or existing measures. The fact is that when preparing budgetary documents it is necessary to set a cut-off date to take account of their effects. It is clear, however, that both the Government and the National Assembly are not resting during the submission of budgetary documents to the National Assembly and are able to take measures in different areas that cannot be accurately included in the financial impact of the preparation of budgetary documents. Allow me to touch even more insatiable variables in the management of economic policy and the enforcement of fiscal rules in triangles, development, cooling economic growth and mathematical compliance of formulae. Whoever's right or wrong will show time and ex post, not ex ante analysis. Fast braking with restrictive fiscal policy or vice versa, and easing with expansion can have consequences in the future. As everywhere and always in life, real balance must also be sought in the management of fiscal policy. It is important to find some confidence interval, a limit that respects the domestic fiscal rule and also takes into account the assumptions of a changing and cooling international environment. With restrictions, it is certainly the central objective of the Government to maintain economic growth and increase productivity. In this way, honourable Members, the Government proposes a budget that reflects, in terms of structure and scope, the real possibilities and the ability to implement legal obligations and priorities while remaining an important factor in the stability of all public finances or sectors of the country. Let me reiterate here that the vast majority of the commitments included in the State budget are subject to the laws adopted by the National Assembly, which, to a large extent, imposes or limits the room of manoeuvre for additional needs that undoubtedly exist in many areas. In my introduction, I cannot go beyond what happened on Friday's Committee on Finance and I have completed the supplements there. Two of the Committee's adopted were complemented by an additional €90 million earmarked by the Gorenje Railway in 2020, with one supplement taking away €60 million where they are not available. At the same time, the absorption capacity of the mountain railway, terrain preparedness and investment documentation are not such that they could spend so much money on it in the coming year. I would also like to point out that the budgets are prepared on the assumption that the municipalities have an average of 589.11 euros in 2020 and 588.30 euros in 2021 and have been calculated on the basis of the existing, adopted, methodology for calculating the average and the maximum average so far. For the first time, its amount is equal to the cost of municipalities calculated by methodology. If you, honourable Members and Members, first confirm the draft budgets in the proposed or even slightly amended form and then in the ZIPRS, i.e. in the law on the implementation of the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia, vote on the average, which will be different, then the draft budgets and the accompanying law on the implementation of budgets will be uncoordinated, which means that we will not have budgets for 2020 and 2021, and I do not need to mention in particular what a signal this would be for both people at home and Slovenia in the international environment. I would like Members and Members to work long-term to put aside personal and partial interests and to work for the benefit of our country, all our citizens and citizens. Let us not forget that we are all responsible here for the elections and the electorates, that is, our people who want a stable macroeconomic environment and long-term sustainable public finances. This is what both draft budgets provide. And yet, let's not forget, one is words, the other is actions. I believe that in your deliberations you will carefully consider all the arguments and, in your decisions, give priority to the benefits and development potential of this country, its citizens and also the opinion of the Fiscal Council, which said that the recommendations of the Fiscal Council are directed towards adopting the Blue Decisions of the Government, and in these days in particular the National Assembly. Finally, let me stress once again that the assessment of the Fiscal Council for both budgets, 2020 and 2021 is that they are in line with the fiscal rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Secretary, for further explanation. The committee responsible is the Committee on Finance, and I therefore give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, Chairman of the Committee. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u4	Mr President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! At its 25th urgent meeting on 15 November this year, the Finance Committee considered the supplementary draft budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. 64 amendments were forwarded to the Committee, which were tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, New Slovenia, the Slovenian National Party and the Left as part of the updated draft budget for 2020. The Committee was also presented with a proposal for amendments to the Committee of the New Slovenia Group to the user of the Infrastructure Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia and amendments to the amendment of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Culture. Similarly, 55 proposals from qualified proposers to the 2021 supplementary draft budget were submitted to the Committee and by 2021 the amendment of the SNS Group's amendment to the budgetary user was also forwarded to the Committee by the Ministry of Culture. In a joint introductory presentation of the supplementary budget proposals for the two years, the Minister of Finance presented the innovations in the complementary proposals, which take into account the warnings of the working bodies of the National Assembly, the Council of State, the Fiscal Council and a package of tax changes. The supplementary draft budget also makes sense by taking into account the decision on the provision of sufficient funds for the construction of the western suburb of Slovenska Bistrica and the provisions of the Law on Social Security Benefits adopted by the National Assembly. In addition, the Minister presented the revenue and expenditure of the two budgets and highlighted in particular that a budget surplus has been planned for both years, namely €415 million for 2020 and €657 million for 2021. Regarding the assessment of the Fiscal Council, he said that the draft budgets were in line with the fiscal rule and pointed out that they were aware of them at the Ministry of Finance. The country's debt is falling against the limit of 60% of the gross domestic product resulting from the Stability and Growth Pact and means meeting the so-called Maastricht criterion. Regarding the assessment of the Fiscal Council, he said that the Government was aware of the uncertainties and explained that, with regard to Umara's 2020 forecast, it had immediately reduced its budget expenditure by EUR 100 million. In its opening presentation, the Director of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development said that the outlook for economic growth for 2020 and 2021 remained within the framework of the autumn forecast. It also noted the precarious situation in the international environment and assessed that the most likely scenario at this time was that published by Umar as the central scenario of the autumn forecast. This is a 3% growth in 2020 and 2.7% growth in 2021. The President of the Fiscal Council presented an assessment of the supplementary draft budgets for the next two years, where he found that they were formally in line with the fiscal rule and drew attention to the significant risks, particularly in relation to the projected economic growth and the inclusion of positive effects on the balance of public finances, which do not yet have an adequate basis in the current legislation. He drew attention to some measures that could have an impact on the implementation of budgets, such as extraordinary harmonisation of pensions, and some legislative changes could have an impact and would have a longer term impact on the sustainability of public finances. It has made a positive assessment of the reduction in the share of public debt in gross domestic product, which is more intensive than the Stability and Growth Pact provides. He also drew attention to the precarious international situation which has had a strong impact on Slovenia as an export-oriented economy and said that there is not yet an adequate set of policies, particularly demographic and environmental ones, to ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances. In the joint debate on the supplementary budget proposals for the two years, some members and members of the Committee said that the budgets were indeveloped and non-social, as they allocated little resources to areas such as long-term care, investment, primary education, scholarships, health, culture and materially too much resources for defence, security, the Presidency of the Council of the European Union and the overall strengthening of the country's repressive apparatus. They pointed out that it is necessary to provide funds for diplomatic and consular representations, since Slovenia is in urgent need of them as an export-oriented economy. They highlighted Banka Slovenije's measures in the area of crediting private consumption and housing. The importance of a favourable business and tax environment was also highlighted. They said the amendments wanted to change priorities in some areas. On the contrary, some other members and members of the Committee felt that the draft budgets were record-breaking, that the priorities shown were right that the draft budgets were in line with the restrictive fiscal rule and that they were surpluses for both years. The two proposals also reduce or plan to reduce public debt and bring Slovenia closer to the Maastricht criterion and are among the first in the European Union and thus a good example of good practice. They considered that they were both complemented by draft budgets within the framework of Slovenia's financial capacity and that they ensured the medium-term sustainability of public finances. They praised, perhaps, the government's rapid response to Umar's economic growth forecast, as the government reduced spending for 2020 by EUR 100 million. During the discussion, the Minister of Finance and the other representatives of the Government answered the questions in a comprehensive manner and provided additional clarifications. Following the conclusion of the discussion on the complementary draft state budget for 2020, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and to the amendment proposal for the Committee of the New Slovenia Group. The Committee supported the following amendments tabled: the SDS Group's amendment to the User's Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia's Infrastructure to increase the sub-programme Investment activity on rail infrastructure by €60 million; the Levic Group's amendment to the User's Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia's Infrastructure to increase the sub-programme Investment activity on rail infrastructure by €30 million; and the amended amendment by the Slovenian National Party's Group to the User of the Ministry of Culture to increase the sub-programme Protection of Cultural Heritage, Archives and Libraries' activity by €1 million. The Committee did not support all the other amendments tabled by the individual parliamentary groups. Nor did the Committee support the proposal for amendments to the Committee of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats to the user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure. Following the debate on the amendments, the Committee adopted the following decision: "The Finance Committee supports the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020." In the debate on the amendments to the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021, the Committee identified all amendments tabled and supported the amended amendments of the Slovenian National Party Group to the budgetary user of the Ministry of Culture by increasing the sub-programme for cultural heritage, archiving and library activities by €1 million. All other amendments submitted to the draft budget for 2021 were not supported by the Committee. After discussing the amendments to the 2021 budget tabled and supplemented draft, the Finance Committee adopted the following decision: "The Finance Committee supports the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr President, for presenting the events on the committee. With this, honourable Members, we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, you have the word Mr Jožef Horvat on behalf of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome, even though he is leaving, Mr President of the Government, the Council of Ministers and, above all, you, colleagues and colleagues! The budget shall be an act of the State with which the revenue and other revenue and expenditure and other expenditure of the State are foreseen for a period of one or two years. This is an economic and political act that sets out the programmes and the rights of direct budget users to carry out their tasks and activities in the form of projects and measures. The annual budget should thus translate the objectives of fiscal policy, the country's development objectives, priority areas and the political and strategic priorities of the Government, i.e. the content of the coalition contract, if the coalition partners respect it, read if the signatories of the coalition treaty fulfil their commitments and promises to people. Mark Tulij Cicero, a Roman statesman and the most intelligent mind of Roman culture at the time, wrote in 55 before we count on the budget: “The budget must be coordinated, the treasury must be recharged, the public debt must be reduced, the arrogance of officials must be curbed and the help of foreign countries reduced, otherwise Rome will go bankrupt. People have to learn to work again instead of living off state support." End of quote. Even in 2019 Mark Tulij Cicero sounds very current. With the measured and projected easing of economic growth in Slovenia and in the countries of our most important economic partners, the current observation by Professor Mojmir Dark, who says: "If there was a major crisis, we would be in a significantly worse situation today than at the end of 2008." End of quote. The budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2020 and 2021 are the first integrated budgets of this coalition and at the same time the budget for the period before which the Government should already reach a working temperature for the necessary modernisation of social subsystems, especially health care, the establishment of effective policies, particularly economic and social policies, and the establishment of effective functions of the country for which we have, in particular, security. It is a two-year period in which the government should live up to all its promises, since the year after this rejection is 2022, the electoral year, and this will be very short. However, the budgetary documents show that there will be no reform measures, so the government will carry out only ongoing business in 2020 and 2021 after our assessment. With regard to budgetary revenues, it is important to emphasise that the Slovenian economy has grown well after the crisis, thank God. And exclusively to the Slovenian economy, i.e. employers and employees, we must be grateful that we can finance, for example, the social state, social sub-systems and the functioning of the state. In New Slovenia, we have been missing Slovenian policies to promote entrepreneurship, to add oxygen to raise the productivity of the Slovenian economy, which is 19% below the European average. This should be done by establishing a competitive business environment, notably with tax policy and by removing administrative barriers, for example by simplifying and informing processes. Tax policy should stimulate businesses and workers, but unfortunately not. Evidence is many young people, educated and not quite young people who leave the country and permanently move to other countries, more friendly to creative and working people. If we lose our brains, we lose our development, if we lose our development, we stagnate, and if we stagnate, we go back. We must not pass the measured fact that economic growth has split during this government. Let's look at the third quarter of 2018, when this government takes place, we record economic growth at 4.7%, and the second quarter of 2019 is realised economic growth at 2.4%. The difference is therefore 2.3 percentage points or 49% drop. I am not saying that this is the fault of this government, but the government must respond to this dynamic, to this cooling of the economy in a timely and effective manner. In New Slovenia, we welcome the request of the Minister for Finance, Dr. Bertoncl, that the latest forecast of reduced economic growth also reduces budgetary expenditure and we miss efforts towards rationalisation of the country. If I illustrate this with a statement from one of the famous Slovenian entrepreneurs who says: “The State should limit its apparatus, we have an unfair social, irrational state apparatus, a bunch of agencies.” End of story. With the current tax system in Slovenia, we have achieved that Slovenian society is very egalitarian. In the final stage, this is not a problem if the company is egalitarian in prosperity but not egalitarian in poverty. In order to finance the provision of freedoms, goods and services, the State must establish a mechanism through which citizens contribute a certain part of their income to the common state budget. The concept of taxes in itself therefore constitutes an intervention in the ownership right of an individual who is justified and justified in the necessity of the functioning of the State and its systems. Since it is a legitimate exercise in the individual's property rights in the determination of taxes, a great deal of rationality and caution is needed in establishing the tax system. An unjustified high level of tax burden would constitute an unjustified intervention in the property of an individual and would have a negative impact on the motivation for his or her business and work. Too much tax burden is contrary to the Christian democratic principle of subsidiarity, whereby all social processes in which this is possible should be carried out at the most basic social level. That is why we supported the increase in the average on Friday's Finance Committee, because we respect the principle of subsidiarity. The country should only enter into these processes when it is no longer able to perform optimally at a lower level. Christian Democrats believe that an individual is much more responsible and rational than a country in dealing with financial resources, so that only a limited amount of resources necessary for its operation can be transferred to the country through taxes. On the other hand, citizens should retain a greater proportion of the resources they have created themselves with their abilities and work. Excessive tax burdens and the financing of excessive and unjustified state transfers destroy productivity and reduce the motivation to develop the individual's ability, people work independently of the state and create the belief that they are entitled to state benefits without their work. Such expectations teach people to wait for state aid and make them less interested in self-initiative and developing their own talents. The policy of excessive taxes shows a lack of confidence in the ability of citizens to manage the money they deserve. Only a policy that does not trust its citizens requires them to pay too much taxes to manage these funds instead. This is a policy we are rejecting by Christian Democrats. We support a tax policy designed to provide the necessary public goods and services of a rational social state and to operate the necessary state mechanisms. At the same time, we are opposed to a tax policy whose purpose and consequences are unjustified redistribution, the provision of revenue to selected stakeholders, the reduction of motivation for work and investment, the unreasonable expansion of the public administration system, the involvement of the State in the economy and the distortion of the market. We advocate fair taxation. Taxation must follow the foundations of the social market economy, be friendly to workers and investment and as simple as possible. We defend taxation by partial ability. People with higher incomes can contribute more to communities than people with lower incomes. On the other hand, the opposite is true — those who work more must have more at the end of the day. We live in a time of rapid technological development driven by highly qualified individuals and businesses. If Slovenia, through its tax policy, continues to challenge these people to the realization of their abilities and ideas in foreign countries, we will never be among the most successful countries and we will even go back because others will outrun us. Skilled individuals are the most important thing Slovenia has. Christian Democrats also want to create a more friendly environment for these individuals to develop their ideas and their business activities, and therefore we need a favourable tax system, which includes reducing the severity of progressive taxation and limiting the steep growth in the extent of paying social contributions. The country, which uses the tax system to oppress the most productive and creative individuals, is also suppressing its own development and its own future. This is why in New Slovenia we expected more decisive changes in tax policy, we only got cosmetics. If we take a moment to look at the adopted budgetary frameworks, more specifically at the spending side of the state treasury, we can see a considerable increase in the spending of the country in recent years. Between 2018 and 2022, the government increases the expenditure of the sector by as much as €3 billion 710 million. Given the ambition of the numbers in increasing public spending, we could also expect a little more courage to relieve those who create these funds. It is because of taxpayers who pay taxes on a regular basis that every time, the authorities can afford an ever - increasing share of the money collected by taxes. While the proposal for an updated budget takes into account the effects of recent changes in tax legislation and budgetary revenue, or the assessment of the burden on taxpayers for 2020 reduces by 44.7 million euros, it does not reduce the total revenue or the burden on taxpayers by taking into account tax changes for 2021. If we were to calculate the average of both budgets, the reduction in the burden on taxpayers, taking into account the so-called tax reform – which unfortunately is not – is known for the good EUR 20 million per budget. Well, you could say only for a sample. We also recall that, on the other hand, between 2018 and 2021, budget expenditure will increase by around €800 million. In view of the assessment of the impact of the tax changes and the supplementary draft budgets, it can be concluded that the average annual actual impact of the tax burden is less than 3 % of the increase in budget expenditure between 2018 and 2021. If I simplify, we have therefore increased the budget spending by 100 units, and we have reduced the taxes on the state budget by three units. So how can we always listen to excuses so we can't cut taxes because it's not possible to fill the tax deficit, and almost in the same breath, we increase the budget spending by 800 million euros? Dear colleagues and colleagues, in New Slovenia we were negatively surprised at what we heard yesterday. We heard another attack on the Slovenian constitution. I quote: “Nobody gains anything by breaking the system.” End of quote. This statement in itself is not a problem, it is true, no one gains anything by destroying the system. However, ladies and gentlemen, these are the words of the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Marjan Šarc, with whom he wishes to discipline Members and cancel the 82nd Article of the Slovenian Constitution. We all know him very well. He probably also had in mind what I have already said – raising the average for Slovenian municipalities, for citizens, for citizens, what we achieved on the Committee on Finance on Friday. This is €140 million at annual level. If the additional €140 million is for the municipalities, for the citizens – as once again, we have decided on the Committee on Finance – the collapse of the system, then, of course, it is the collapse of the system of parliamentary democracy by the statement of the Prime Minister of the Government. These are unacceptable interventions, unacceptable disciplines, and I really feel that before this country celebrates its 30th birthday, we are saying good-bye to parliamentary democracy. The New Slovenia Group will not support the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, nor will it support the updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Marko Bandelli, you will present the position of the Group of the Party of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished three ministers who stayed here, and deputies! Today we are looking at two documents, accompanied mainly by two adjectives: the most important and record-breaking. The first one can't be challenged, the other one can't either. The higher revenues allow for higher expenditure, which is still under the fiscal rule. The record of the opposition's budgets and critics are using to remind the government of what, despite the record high number at its disposal, it has not addressed what it has forgotten, what is unjustifiably pushed to the brink and where all the missed opportunities are. We forget, however, that a large part of the budget record is also on the basis of wage increases resulting from agreements with the public sector unions and which are the legacy of the previous government. We objected to such a rise in the SAB, but it doesn't even matter anymore. The record of the budgets means the highest expenditure so far. In 2020, the country's expenditure will be € 10.4 billion; in 2021 it will be slightly higher, € 10.5 billion. The country's expenditure is increasing, which is possible only with higher revenues. Indeed, the revenues of state budgets are also increasing over the next two years. Both budgets show surpluses, and this is worth stressing. The budget is the most important act of each government, as these documents reflect the set priorities and objectives. But it's not just that. The hierarchy in the approach to the allocation of funds is clear. First, it is necessary to provide resources for the implementation of the legal tasks, followed by the payment of the commitments already made, but only after this are desirable and coalition priorities. Each government is therefore facing a challenge in drawing up its budget. It must ensure the stability of public finances on the one hand and promote the economy and social development on the other. In doing so, it must address the needs of the economy and include all social strata, from young people to the working population to pensioners. Again and again, it is a demanding project in which it is impossible to satisfy everyone. This is also true for the confirmation of the cut between individual ministries. The wishes and needs of individual ministries are real, but the money is insufficient to meet all of them. The ministries are thus always forced to seek savings, carry out internal restructuring and derogate from specific targets, which, of course, triggers a certain degree of malpractice. It is perfectly logical that every minister wants to do the best he can and, of course, also needs financial resources, but at the same time, it is necessary to understand that sometimes the wishes of individual ministries need to move away from higher targets at country level, such as caring for social categories and promoting value-added areas. This brings a competitive economy and consequently a long-term sustainable economic growth. Compromises and unifications are necessary and we are very well aware of this in the SAB Group. However, we cannot and do not want to give up on some of the priorities that are crucial to our party. First among them are pensioners. If, when we confirmed the rebalancing in March this year, we regret to find that 240 million euros were spent on pensioners spent on other things, this time we can only find that we have spent an additional 42 million to improve the material situation for pensioners. Certainly better than nothing, but we would remind the Government of this place of our own of the record budget I mentioned at the outset. The implementation of the commitments enshrined in the coalition contract must be among the priorities of the coalition. Why did we sign the coalition contract? Not only will we respond to the most pressing problems of pensioners by implementing them, but we will also raise confidence in the pension system in the current active generation. Our expectations and our demands are also extremely high when we talk about long-term care. The law, which would definitively regulate the area of long-term care, personal assistance and long-term care insurance, is one of those we have been waiting for for more than 15 years. It would increase the supply and accessibility of homes for the elderly and establish alternative long-term care systems, such as housing communities for the elderly. In the SAB Group, we want each pensioner to be able to pay his pension at home and live peacefully in the autumn of his life. This would also relieve the current and future working generation. It is unacceptable that Slovenia currently does not have a comprehensive system of long-term care. Long-term care, remuneration and financing are covered by healthcare structures, social and parental protection, pensions and invalidity pensions, and each of these forms is covered by specific legislation. Long-term care services are thus provided in the form of various public benefits aimed at addressing long-term care needs through the healthcare system, the social services and the pension and disability social protection system. The law on long-term care, which would define and simplify the system of services and measures intended for persons who are long-term or permanently dependent on the assistance of others, is, as we say, too long. But criticizing from a safe distance, away from taking responsibility is the easiest. I therefore stress that the coalition partners have taken responsibility and we have committed ourselves to regulating the situation of past decisions in the area of long-term care. In our parliamentary group, we are already looking back on April next year, when the law on long-term care is finally about to see the light of the world. Speaking of long-term care, I'd like to mention health care. The health treasury will receive an additional EUR 265 million in the coming year. It is a cashier who has received strong cash injections in recent years, but there has been no real effect. The ceiling for it has increased by €1.5 billion over the last 10 years, but patients are often not receiving the necessary care and what they deserve. We expect that the increase in funds will eventually also be reflected in the reduction of waiting lines. Patients should be at the centre of healthcare. Citizens who conscientiously pay for medical bills rightly expect that the available health resources will be distributed in a way that ensures the highest quality, efficiency and responsibility in health care. The functioning of healthcare organisations must be such that it achieves, to the greatest extent, social interests such as equal access to services, quality of services, public health care and sustainable financing. More than a year has passed since the government was written down, and since the oath, we still have no concrete and clear way to deal with health problems. In the last four years, the waiting years have increased, and structural reforms, at all, are time-consuming. We are aware that waiting periods are the biggest problem of our health and every minister. The growing needs of the population for health services and, on the other hand, problems in the system and poor management of health care institutions are factors that add up. And the sum of this sum is shown in long waiting lines that prevent the patient from coming in for investigation and treatment when he needs it. Therefore, it will be necessary to obtain an action plan to address these problems at the table in a short time. The National Council of Budgets recognises the underdevelopment and substantiation of investment in culture, education, social and state roads. In general, as is the case with practice, the main findings are just too small a social and developmental orientation. In the SAB Group, we disagree with these indications because we believe that fundamental solutions, timely and flexible adjustment to fiscal circumstances and implementation of the social and economic objectives set in the budget have been achieved. Let me particularly touch on the perceptions of the benefits of social attitudes here. In the SAB Group, we support all the measures that further strengthen Slovenia as a social state, but in this regard, we are always reminding again of the traps which the spread and improvement of social rights can have. Undoubtedly, in economic conditions that have exceeded everything in recent years, it is right that the situation of socially weak citizens is improving, but it is difficult to remain indifferent with some numbers. It is worrying that the number of beneficiaries of social transfers has increased significantly in times of exceptional economic growth. We are convinced that the true social state is the one capable of taking care of the most vulnerable and, at the same time, effectively controlling the abuse of the system. Indeed, it could be said that abuse adds to the situation of the most vulnerable and unjustifiably takes the resources that are intended for those who really need it. The data on the number of those who live on or below the poverty risk threshold — 268,000 of them, of which 89 thousand are pensioners — is shocking and calls for action. Of course, we all want to avoid the need for social transfers, as social property would be distributed so that the country should not have to worry about the most vulnerable groups, but unfortunately that is not the case. As has been said many times, we expect and demand the Government to take care of the most vulnerable, especially the elderly, and to accelerate activities to improve their situation. Let me replace the critical posture with a few praises. Finally, the whole of October was devoted to the meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly, which, each within the framework of its powers and duties, demanded certain amendments from the Government, expressed its doubts and pointed out shortcomings, not always constructively and well-intentionedly. The supplementary draft budget also took into account the opinions or comments expressed at those meetings. In the SAB Group we welcome the provision of sufficient resources for the implementation of the project of the western bypass of Slovenska Bistrica. This is an investment, which means a strong multiplier for economic growth. Not only for the local environment, the company has great importance for the whole country, so it is right that additional money is provided for the implementation of the investment. Let me also look at the ministries that we pay special attention to in our client. These are the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Office for Slovenians, in place and around the world, and the Service for Development and Cohesion. The budget of the Ministry of Infrastructure is considered to be realistic. It reflects the realisation of the commitments we have entered into the coalition contract and provides that the funds allocated to road and rail infrastructure will not be reduced. Transport infrastructure is one of the key growth generators, so it is particularly important that the biggest increase in investment is right there. In the light of sustainable development, we are also looking forward to all planned investments in projects that will lead Slovenia towards a different future and also to measures to improve road safety. We also believe that funding will be allocated to the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world, although it could be higher, to enable the implementation of the programmes drawn up and to ensure the well-being of Slovenians both in place and in the world. The SVRK budget, however, shows a real picture of the needs and possibilities of drawing on EU funds. There is a lot of criticism at SVRK about the poor use of European funds. In doing so, it is completely ignored and forgotten that it is the SVRK that can do little to make the pumping better. It is the ministries and intermediate bodies that must ensure that European funds are used faster and more qualitatively. The composition of the budget documents undoubtedly requires a sober assessment and a realistic view of the circumstances in which our country is at present. It is wrong to believe that this time the government is able to work because of favourable economic conditions. We know how deceptive this can be, how quickly things can change, and finally how high the price has already been paid in the past due to inadequate assessments, reckless indebtedness and insolventness that have led to budgetary deficits. In the SAB Group, we estimate that the composition of this time-term budgetary documents on the country's capacity has been adequately assessed and that the moderation of economic growth has also been duly taken into account. The draft budgets for 2020 and 2021 will therefore be unanimously supported by the SAB Group. We estimate that they are well and realistically prepared. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The next Mr Robert Polnar will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u10	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, Madam Members, Members of Parliament! The budget strategy sets financial consolidation as its Archimedes point at the expected economic downturn. Fiscal policy is at the heart of the political debate, consolidation of public finances is necessary, but the order and combination of measures to be implemented are subject to different views. The fundamental problem remains how to promote economic growth, increase competitiveness and maintain social sustainability through fiscal and other policies. This is not just a technical issue, but also a substantive solution to the problems. The logic of political economic cycles is inexcusable. The legislative and executive authorities must start with short-term measures, while consistent establishment of medium- and long-term structural reforms is needed. The volatile situation in the area of public finances is a limiting factor. But politicians and planners of any reform must not overlook the time component. Short-term problems cannot be resolved through structural reforms that operate on a medium or long term. We cannot solve the current budgetary problems with health or pension reform. Public administration reform and the rationalisation of public sector costs also require, in particular, good public management and the time of structural adjustment. In terms of economic policy management, the government must not set too many targets in relation to the number of instruments available and the options for action in order to avoid the traps of economic policy management, where their effects do not come at the same time as measures and their costs. Coordination of public revenue and expenditure is the most important task of budgetary policy in a particular financial year. The budgets for 2020 and 2021 are based on the autumn forecast of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which worsens the outlook for economic growth by 2019. The growth forecast for 2020 is also decreasing from 3.1% to 3% and in 2021 from 2.8% to 2.7%. The change in forecast downwards is mainly due to the slowdown in economic growth in countries that are Slovenia's most important trading partners. It is undeniable that imports are growing faster than exports in our country, which means a negative contribution of foreign exchange to the growth of gross domestic product. In the future, domestic consumption will be the central driver of economic growth. If the projected rate of economic growth is also realised, it will be more than twice as much of the gross domestic product as forecast for the euro area, where the forecast for 2020 is 1.2%. For that reason, the Government for 2020 is planning state budget expenditure of EUR 92 million lower than the highest level set in the State budget framework regulation for the period 2020-2022. Expenditure is planned at €10 000 358 million, €8 million in expenditure in the supplementary budget due to an increase in the number of jobs in public works programmes. For 2021 expenditure is set at EUR 10 000 455 million, which is in line with the current state budgeting framework decision. A gradual improvement of the state’s balance in the medium term is planned. In line with this objective, revenue surpluses over expenditure for the two financial years are also foreseen. While the surplus of the state budget after the cash flow for 2020 was projected at 0.9% of gross domestic product, the additional draft budget reduced it to 415 million euros and 0.82% of GDP. A budget surplus of EUR 656 million is foreseen for 2021. The question is: Why such a high surplus? The country's Slovenian debt is still higher than 60% of gross domestic product, it will fall to 62.1% next year, and in 2021 it is planned to fall below those Maastricht 60%, to 58.6%. From 2021 on, we expect that the country will not be obliged to reduce its debt so intensively, because the fiscal rule applies only if the debt is reduced to below 60% of the gross domestic product. Slovenia has used the period of a positive economic cycle to make comparatively the fastest reduction of public debt in the European Union in the share of GDP, and has also begun to reduce debt in the nominal amount. The achievement of such a surplus is necessary in 2020 due to the reduction in debt to a level suitable for a small open economy that is more sensitive to external macroeconomic shocks. By comparison, in 2008 exports to GDP amounted to 66%, up to 85% by 2018. This means that Slovenia came out of recession mainly because of the growth in export demand. An even more visible parallel is, for example, to the European area where the share of exports to GDP is 48%. The budgetary surplus is also an important component of the structural balance of the state sector in terms of the sustainability of the pension system and its future funding. Something about the policy of budgetary revenue. The revenue of the state budget for 2020 is estimated on the basis of macroeconomic origins and policies in force in the field of tax, non-tax and other revenues and improving the efficiency of the collection of public levies. Revenue based on data in the 2020 supplementary draft budget shall take into account the tax restructuring measures. This increases the budget revenue for 2020 by 5.2% according to the expected realization for 2019 and is projected at EUR 10 billion 773 million. For 2021, EUR 11 billion 111 million is planned to increase by 3.1% in the light of the proposal in the 2020 supplementary budget. The revenue structure following the planned growth reflects the funds received from the European Union. A billion €71 million is foreseen in the state budget for the coming year, which is 35% higher than expected in 2019. In this area, there is the highest risk of non-realisation, the most questionable economic illusion of budgetary planning. If the investment cycle is to rely on the European Union's resources, we must have a clear fiscal vision and a set of projects to be carried out in the coming years. Tax revenues are the largest in scale. With regard to their growth, it should be pointed out that they are increasing slower in 2020 than GDP, mainly due to tax reductions in this year's tax base by decommissioning the regression and tax restructuring measures. The replacement effects are foreseen by applying so-called soft measures. They will depend most on the effectiveness of the financial administration in reducing tax debt, the effectiveness of tax recovery, the increase in tax control and the identification of additional liabilities to be paid to the budget by taxpayers. In 2021, tax revenues in the share of GDP are beginning to rise again. This is due to the fact that the 2021 budget will take account of the corporate income tax calculation due to the introduction of the lowest effective rate of that tax, which will not be taken into account in the taxation of 2020. I am moving on to budgetary expenditure policies. The budget expenditure for 2020 is increasing according to the original proposal of €8 million. In 2021, €10 billion and €455 million remain unchanged. On the basis of a comparison of the 2020 budget of the pension and healthcare plan for the same period, it can be found that the budget will grow at the slowest in 2020. The expenditure of the state budget will increase by only 2.6% in 2020 in the light of the planned implementation in 2019. This will reduce gross domestic product from 20,92 % to 20,35 %. More quickly, however, pension fund expenditure will rise by 5.63% and health allowance expenditure by 8.72%. The developmental orientation of the budget is demonstrated through different parameters, and the most important among them is the amount of funds earmarked for investments, the sum of investment expenditure and investment transfers. The sum of both types of budget expenditure is €135 million, which is the largest since 2015. However, the share of investments in the overall expenditure structure shows a slightly different picture. The share of expenditure amounts to 11.17% of investment, for example in 2015 it amounted to 13.93%, or one billion and 365 million euros. The growth of investments is, to a large extent, linked to the success of the use of available European funds. However, public investment should not be seen only in the light of the state budget, but for the whole country sector. Thus, the share of gross domestic product in 2020 was at 3,9 %, in 2021 at 4 %, for example, significantly higher than the euro area average, where the percentages are 2.8 and 2.9. However, the Slovenian situation is particularly affected by the fact that the level of public investment in the share of gross domestic product is lower than the average between 2005 and 2009, for example, when it amounted to 4,5 % of gross domestic product. The programming priorities of the budget show an increase in the share of expenditure devoted to investment in policy, education and sport. On the basis of our own calculations, we find that the funds for this purpose are increasing by EUR 55 million. In the structure of the overall budget expenditure, the share of education and sport is slightly less than 18%, and it is not possible to overlook the large shortfall in investment in this area. The increase in resources for policy, entrepreneurship and competitiveness, where expenditure is increased by almost 21% in relation to the planned realisation this year, is also reflected. The planned expenditure will amount to €193 million. The funds for entrepreneurship and competitiveness will thus represent slightly less than 2% of all budget expenditure. In the area of entrepreneurship and competitiveness, in addition to the expenditure balance sheet, funds are also allocated to the financial claims and investments account, in particular to the management of financial assets. This money is for a good EUR 245 million in 2020. An important area in the future development of Slovenia is the field of science and information society. Investing in science and the information society aims to promote innovation and technologically advanced products and services. According to the planned implementation this year, expenditure is increasing from €305 million to €393 million, an increase of 28.8%. The scientific resources will represent little less than 4% of all budget expenditure in 2020 and will rise substantially in the expenditure structure in view of the expected impact in 2019, where this effect is 3.02%. Their aim is to increase competitiveness and the added value of the economy in the long term. The funds will be used primarily for the establishment of public research institutions, for the training and development of scientific staff, for research equipment, for participation in international research infrastructures, for research projects and for scientific literature. The key question to be asked is whether the state budget is socially oriented or not. The amount of social security expenditure will be the second highest in 2020, in the last ten years, at €1 billion and €215 million. While the share of total expenditure will fall slightly compared to the previous year, it still represents almost 12% of total expenditure. Social transfers continue to be an important factor in reducing relative poverty in Slovenia. Within social security policies, the most funds are provided for family benefits and parental benefits, social assistance such as monetary social assistance and rights under war legislation, and so on, the extensive list of all social transfers. The ageing of the population continues to be one of the biggest challenges in spending on social services. A significant proportion of the state budget represents pensions, more than 9% of all expenditure. In this respect, it should be stressed that the transfer from the state budget also takes into account the annual allowance provided for in 2020, which amounts to 145 million euros. In doing so, it must not be overlooked that, at the beginning of 2019, the regular coordination of pensions was 2.7%, that in December 2019 coordination of 1.5% would be exceptional and that, in early 2020, there would be regular coordination of pensions by 3.5%. In 2021, 3.9 % of pension coordination is planned on a regular basis. This means that pensions from 2019 to 2021 will be harmonised by 12,1 %, without taking into account the exceptional coordination of pensions in 2020, which is expected to be in the nominal amount. If it remained at a percentage, this growth would not be 12.1%, but 13,21%. In labour market policy and working conditions, measures are being implemented with the aim of increasing employment and raising the working rate of the population. The funds for this purpose will amount to €305 million or 3% of the budget in 2020. The number of cities in public works programmes has been increased with a view to increasing the integration of long-term unemployed into these programmes. Investments in transport infrastructure are among the key generators of economic growth. The aim of this type of investment is to ensure more efficient public rail infrastructure and road transport, and to improve the condition of roads with a high level of use, transport safety and to raise standards of regular maintenance. Together, transport policy and transport infrastructure resources will fall from €856 million in 2019 to €827 million in 2020. In the share of expenditure, total expenditure, transport and transport infrastructure resources will fall from 8.5% to 8%. In other words, investment maintenance and construction of state roads will be reduced. Expenditure on agriculture, forestry, fisheries and nutrition is minimally reduced according to the planned implementation in 2019, from EUR 468 million to EUR 467 million. Resources for this area are a stable programme priority, representing 4.5% of all expenditure. The main objectives are to implement the common agricultural and fisheries policy. In this context, most of the funds allocated to direct payments schemes in agriculture and actions of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. In 2020 and 2021, gradual completion of projects is envisaged. Expenditure in the field of healthcare is also increasing. In particular, there is an increase in resources for postgraduate education and training of healthcare professionals. Thus, in 2019 and 2020, resources will rise from 194 million euros to 198 million euros, which means slightly less than 2% of total expenditure. Budget resources for health care are, however, only part of the picture, because overall expenditure in the health treasury is rising much faster than the expenditure of the state budget and even faster than the expenditure of the pension fund. In 2020, they will increase by 8.72% compared to this year or 266 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, public finances are expected to confirm the economic performance of the government administration. It is all prepared in relatively conservative terms with regard to economic growth and inflation. However, are the budgets developed or are they merely a fiscal bag to fill legal and agreed budget users' items? It is difficult to conceptually combine counter-measures, such as fiscal stability and social cohesion or environmental efficiency and economic competitiveness, short-term and long-term measures and adjustments to the sustainability of the budget in the light of projected economic developments. Therefore, the problem is not in paper, nor is the problem in the guidelines; the biggest problem is their ability to apply them. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, we will support the budget for 2020 and 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Victory Jelinčič The nobles will present the position of the SNS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u12	Good day to you all! We have a budget ahead of us, 415 million euros is a budget surplus. I will not talk about what is good, what is bad, but I think that the question needs to be raised about how to raise revenue in the budget. The addition of money never hurts, the excess doesn't hurt the head, they say. And if we're looking at that Furs didn't recover a billion 200 million tax debts in Slovenia, one wonders why. In Slovenia it is the person who owes 200 euros, the taxable person who owes millions and is the partner of various banks and financial administrations. Something's gonna have to be changed around here. Foreign companies will now be taxed for the first time with a 7% tax, which is correct. After 25 years of independence, for the first time, it happened that we no longer lay in the ass of foreigners, but that we are willing to take something away from them from what they serve. They tend to put money in vans and take it to Austria, France, wherever they are, every time the stores close. The 7% tax is the first step, but I think it should be at least, at least 9%, because given the tax rate of 15%, which is elsewhere, abroad, it would still be very good for Slovenia, very acceptable, but also for foreign investors who would come here. However, lowering income or decommissioning is in fact a poor measure for the state budget. Especially with this regression Slovenian people, citizens, most Slovenes are full of Croatian budget, not Slovenian budget. How many Slovenians do we have on holiday in Slovenia and how many do we have in Croatia? We see that Slovenia is the main supplier of money for Croatia. Promoting exports to non-European markets, particularly Asia and Africa. The European markets are saturated. We don't do anything in Asia and Africa. Our economic diplomacy is just a term, a technical term, nothing works in reality. After all, one also wonders when the Minister for Foreign Affairs walks around the world, how much business has he brought into the country. As I know, not one of them. After seeing that 10.3% of the resources represent the European Union's resources, taxpayers contribute everything else – why? Why don't we make Europe give more or take more from Europe? Now, where are those neural points? The first is certainly the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. KPK is the worst institution in the country. It has about 40 employees and a budget of around €1.7 million, but the effect is zero or zero, negative, negative. Every year Slovenia is lower on the scale of perception of corruption and corruption. And what's going on? They're hunting individuals, what I know, even some MP who got some email where someone would think it might be some kind of a way of corruption. It's bullshit. It's totally bullshit. Those who are involved in corruption — nothing happens there. And we have on the benches a whole bunch of different people who are certainly corrupt, but, of course, those people are also protected by laws, whether by ministers or by ministers. To sum up just one example, the government of Alenka Bratušek adopted those laws that allowed the write-off of EUR 106 million, and this gentleman paid only EUR 60 000 – this was the building of the Mayor of Ljubljana Jankovic Zlatko Srak – nothing. 106 million here, 106 million there, and it's for some lunch, isn't it? In short, that's how we go. Now I'd say with the KPK, those 40 employees are guilty of so much corruption, and that's because they can't stop it or they don't want to stop it. They walk around with some kind of code of ethics, like they don't have any other work. And they don't seem to have any other work to do. I think the KPK president should send it all together to the UKC and we would have jobs for the entire mandate. Of course, it is known that Mr. Pahor has placed the Stephanesque, probably under the command of someone, and the electorate should take this into account. But with us, voters don't take practically anything into account. Then we have another completely unnecessary body, this is the Advocate of the principle of equality. The state gives him $1 million a year. That's great. Do we not have the power to protect the human rights of the Ombudsman, the courts? This organ is completely unnecessary. After all, the principle of equality – equality has been fought on our premises since 1945 in the former Democratic Federal Yugoslavia. Don't tell me that in 1991 this equality and equality disappeared. That's bullshit. It's a complete joke. But of course, one certain click, of course linked to the LGBT variant, needs money, needs jobs. There are more and more employees in there that I don't know what they're doing. And I wonder where the Advocate of Equality is in the coordination of pensions. Then we have Furs. Furs, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, conducts secret investigations that no one knows about, except some individuals in Furs, and the others do nothing. Such secret investigations should not be conducted, nor should Owl do anything similar – Furs does them. I'd like to know what the information officer says about this. If you don't say anything about it, you ask yourself why you don't say anything. Do we need it or what? Of course, Furs’ attitude towards taxpayers is disastrous. Inspectors act like little gods, too powerful to the end. They do not respect anything; their laws are a word on paper which, of course, does not apply to them. They're happy to write fines for small things, but they're already insane. There's one more thing. When the taxpayers after ten years or do not know how much they prove that Furs was wrong, Furs neither apologizes nor gets the taxpayer back any funds nor knows how the taxpayer survived that time, whether or not his company went to hell, his family fell apart, he hanged himself. I'm talking real facts, not making them up. Several of them committed suicide. Did any of their inspectors answer? Never and never. And yet you should. You should, because you can't live in a country like this. Such matters persist in the courts after ten years, in the end they are rejected, it is found that it was wrong, the inspector thinks, I care, nobody can do anything to me – and it is the fact that no one can harm him. The educational structure of these inspectors is catastrophic. But it doesn't matter. I think that these inspectors, if they do harm to an enterprise, an entrepreneur, a human being, should bear the costs and penalties. He should have been picked up for where he made the mistakes, but it would have been different. A lot of this stuff at Furs is going on because of political pressure. None of us in here – be sure that there are at least ten of you who are looking at you now Furs, if you bought shoelaces, and write you and prepare the matter when necessary, but will strike you, only that someone will step wrongly, instead of the right leg forward to go left foot forward. So you know what you're writing and what you're getting ready for. In Slovenia, however, we have a number of straw companies that every journalist knows about, but Furs doesn't know about. I wonder if Furs even checks the authenticity of the data entered in the register of actual owners. No! No! But one small entrepreneur, if he doesn't register property, pays 6,000 euros in fines. Furs already knows who this owner is, but someone has to be punished. The purpose of the law is to know who owns it, and the purpose of the law is not to punish someone who does not. It's nothing! I think there's a lot to do here. If we go to supplementary health insurance. I don't know who remembered such a stupid system that commercial insurance companies would take care of public health. Please, the premiums should immediately start paying directly to the ZZS, which is the only one responsible for public health care. ZZZ has plenty of money, and we would have more if we could promote the best Slovenian doctors, but we don't know that or don't want to. In Slovenia we have some fantastic doctors who have huge success in the world. Slovenians also go abroad for certain services. If we were to do this, strangers would come to us! 91 million euros will be spent on specialists and specialist physicians. This will cost over 200 000 euros to an individual resident, which means that he could go to a specialty in America, where he could pay peacefully at the best clinics for his specialization. But no, he won't go there because his mentors won't let him! And we're back in school, where there's limited admission to medical school, and then we don't have doctors, and when doctors finish their studies, one year or more years of trying to get a job, and they don't get a job, because mentors are already working and giggling, how and what. We should do it here, too. Perhaps someone would say that this has nothing to do with the budget – how it relates to the budget! Because the health sector and the health sector are extremely profitable. The former Yugoslavia served, and there was a lot of money at the clinical center when those from the Arab countries were being treated. Today we don't know what it is. The last time a famous American got hurt here, she went to the emergency room and paid seven euros. And she said, "Did you make a mistake, it probably says 700 euros?" “No, seven euro.” “How is seven euros?” Yeah, that's how it is with us when a stranger comes, it's all for free! When he gets into the mountains because of his stupidity, because he goes to the Japanese on Triglav, he breaks his leg, the helicopter comes, he takes him to the hospital, he cleans it all up, and then, well, it's nice of you to come to us, it's nice that we've arranged everything for you, and go home and have a good time. Go to Switzerland to do it, you'll pay like yellow! You're going to pay for everything, and we're hollarrhaging drama for our kids either collecting stoppers or fencing around. Pig shit! There's a lot of money in here, too. Social transfers. In our client we advocate that all social transfers be abolished. The proverb says whoever doesn't do it doesn't do it. Why would they pay lazy people who don't want to work themselves because they say I get almost 500 euros on social transfers, then I'll do a little black work, I'll do a little bit of smuggling, I'll get another 600 euros, then I'll start dealing with the drug trade, because in Slovenia, the market for selling cocaine is basically open and I'll earn another 2 euros a month? Why would I go to work, but I'm at home with my mom and I'm all over my ass? It's Slovenia. It's Slovenia. Then let's move on. We have become a country that specializes in benefiting individuals from all possible forms of social transfers. Go take a look around Slovenian towns in the morning, when those who want to work and who can work are actually working, and you will see who is sitting on coffee and on cigarettes in different places. Usually, ladies with black routes on their heads still have higher routes, and when they drink coffee, they lift the curtain from the bottom. This is happening in Slovenia. They banned it in Morocco. In Morocco! But not in Slovenia, we don't know what. Let's move on. Look at the problem with the gypsies. Gypsies order burning oil every month, even though they don't have a heater on the burning oil, they don't have radiators, they heat up by the fire. But of course, the oil is sold or poured into cars and driven on a burner. Come in. Look at the Shiptars who came from Kosovo. There's more and more, terrible numbers. I was talking about numbers yesterday. Only such children associated with Kosovars are in excess of 11,000. These kids don't even live here, or I don't. But mainly Kosovars have all the restaurants and properties on the coast. They're exploiting the Slovenian health system, the social system. Administrative units and social work centres know exactly that these children do not go to school in Slovenia, but we pay them child support. During the year, Slovenia pays some €100 million of social transfers to these foreigners and pays around €2 million per month for children's documents only. That's great. Then we have a number of foreigners who in Slovenia apply tax reliefs for dependent family members who do not live in Slovenia at all. We should also change that and give relief here only for those who live in Slovenia. There should also be a time limit on how long Slovenia must live. It's no problem to find the basic parameters for this matter to be settled. Go to Switzerland and take a look. I don't know if there are some segments of us in the ministries that are sitting on the bottom of their backs and they don't know any language. But some of them can work very well, and there's also savings. Let's say one case has been told to me that there is a lady at the Ministry of the Interior at work there as a lawyer, but she charges through her espionage to the Ministry that she advises, what and how to do. Yeah, where are we, where do we live? At the Ministry of the Interior, where the most verifiable personnel should be, those who are most committed to justice, reality and the laws that are in Slovenia. Come in. NGOs. NGOs collect over a billion euros a year. A billion euros. The main question is, what NGOs do they get from the country? Some even boast that most of the money is from abroad. Smart countries have banned such organisations because this is typical of organisations paid abroad to destroy the country where the representatives of these organisations live. Many countries have banned this. No, no, no. It's called a spy center. We've banned Sova from doing control at such spy centers, so she can't come home for such an investigation. The police can come in on a secret investigation, but the intelligence department can't. The whole world is laughing at us again. But these NGOs live beautifully. They're having a great life. They write some pamphlets, go uphill and hire their friends. That friend gets a note that he's been employed by a non-governmental organization, and with this letter, he gets funding from the country. That's great. Then why would you work? No wonder it's all that way, I'd say, confused. It's foreign policy. Foreign policy is in a catastrophic state. We've had incompetent ministers for quite some time, especially now. Go around the world and say you're from Slovenia. They'll put you in the former Czechoslovakia first. Since it is not there: “Oh, you are not there, yes, but then you are Slavonia, that part of Croatia.” "No, we're not." “Then what are you, Slovenia?” “We’re not.” "What are you? Slovenia? Never heard of it." If someone says Yugoslavia, "Oh, of course we know where this is." Why? Because they had an excellent foreign policy. What do we have today? Today we have some half-trained, or titles, titles, doctorates, and I don't know what else – but what are they doing? Nothing. Nothing. The countries, even in Europe, are treating us with their left hand, no one is sniffing at us, no one is asking us anything, we're there with a number pendant. We're just number 27, now that the English are out, let's say. No one listens to us, but we had such important Commissioners, who, of course, did nothing. Nothing. What they're going to do, they probably don't even know the language, they don't even know the Slovenian language! After all, here in Parliament there are also some brilliant flowers in Slovenian that I am not talking about journalists at all. Bollocks: “The train has been wiped out.” I have mercy on God. Don't they know what they're doing? So what, I don't think we should leave it. [[…]] But we're paying for an RTV contribution. Why? To have one up there on TV and to shoot nonsense and to sell a variety of fun under the helm, it's nice in the hay, have a good time under the water and things like that. Tourism is for a goat. We're looking at tourism now, instead of telling Martin's cops, guys, let's not get a lot of people squeezed like them, no, at 7:00 in the morning at Ormož they stopped the guy who's driving around, and they let him blow. Even though he's in Styrian, but the porcofix, well, he won't be drunk at 7:00! But that's what's happening, and that's our country's adultery. Extremes, extremes, extremes and possibly fossiers, and then after that – uh, I hit him nice and sad, because he's gonna have to pull the money out. Fuck, come on, stop it. How did we fix our farm tourism? We didn't. We didn't, but there's terrible money, there's so much money that you can't think of. But it's true that there has to be a mind on the other side of the scale. The Germans would say, "Mann Muss Gehirn Haben." That's what you say. It's smart to have. We don't have that. And we don't have that, and that's why we don't have the money. We're landing at the level of one rooster. As far as traffic is concerned. How long have we been negotiating for a second track for such money, for which the Chinese would have built us a railway from Kopra to Ljubljana, and it would have been made long ago? But it's true that the Chinese don't give bribes. The Chinese would rather hang you than give you a bribe. This is the problem, so in Slovenia the Chinese will never work, ours will work, those with a revolutionary past who will work will steal. Or they'll do something, but it's a question. That's not what you're saying. Defense. It is high time to establish compulsory military service. There's money in there, too, no money. But now, instead of regulating these matters, the government has let the Styrian Guard go hunting, and I don't know what it's all about. Please. We once had a territorial defense, which was to control what matters to help law enforcement, and now we're gonna open the door for migrants – go upstairs, just so no one will hurt you. But if someone's gonna stand there with an air rifle, we're gonna have this one, I mean, put it away, let's give it to him. I don't know what we're gonna do to him. [[…]] This is happening in Slovenia. Are we even a country? We didn't. We didn't. As far as water is concerned – I think I'm running out of time, but – it's terrible. Either we've given it to strangers or we'll build it over the water, and if possible, we'll do something that'll break down, and we'll pollute it all together, and then we'll do it again. And once again, they're going to be playing with their pockets full of money. As far as employment is concerned. I don't know, Mr. Cantharutti said he'd bring 3,000 Filipinos. Why would the Filipinos import me? We have Slovenian Filipinos on the labour market, at least 70,000. Let's get them to work. Let them work if they want to get something, not wait and so on. Working in Slovenia isn't true, it's just a lie. It's a lot of work, but they don't want to work. Why work if you don't have to work?Oh, my God! In Slovenia we should first hire all those who are in the employment agency, only then, if any, bring foreigners. But with strangers, you have to look at who would come, what would come. Like when I was talking about the medical segment earlier, we need to know that we don't have any nurses. Like in Banja Luka, there's an extremely good high-school nursing school and you'd be happy to come work for us. But no, we'll bring the Filipinos. Well, whatever Filipino might be, but we don't need Filipinos. I don't know what we're doing in this beloved country. Maybe at the end of the day just a little bit more about healthy diet. We import all possible European Union “light” pigmeat, where it is known that Slovenia is second class or third class for the Visegra Group, and this better class remains in Western Europe. Not only are we exporting the best meat to Germany, but we are buying frozen crops from Brazil that were brought before the big fires because they say they were so big. That's what they say at the end of the 1990s, and they've been deep frozen, and now the Slovenes are going to eat it all. And that's what happens with us. We have some institutions to protect healthy food – mah, please! The biggest contribution to savings in order to get a lot of money is, in the ministries, to fold everything that doesn't belong there. At least 50% of employees in ministries have nothing to do there, for one reason or another. But the economy must not stop, the investment must not be stopped, the state must not bow, so we will support the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you, Member, for presenting your Group's position. Mr Felice Žiža on behalf of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Community. Mr. Ambassador, please. And Mr. Secretary has come to listen to you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u14	Mr President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers! Egregio presidente della Camera di Stato, Grazie per la password. Egregio Deputies, Egregi Ministers! Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! The Italian and Hungarian National Community Group will support the draft budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020, 2021. The Italian and Hungarian national communities welcome the projected increase in the budget for their operations and activities in these funds. These options are given to us so that we can start to stabilise the radio and television programme staff in the Italian language of the regional RTV Centre Koper/Capodistria and improve the conditions of the print media of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. The non-refundable financial resources for the promotion and creation of the economic base of indigenous national communities in the regions in which they live and for the faster development of these regions are provided in financial plans than in the previous period. Nevertheless, we would like to point out that the funds provided only allow for the fundamental implementation of certain programmes and projects that are very important for both national communities. Unfortunately, however, these resources are always insufficient to be able to do all the things that are urgently necessary for the national community. Among them is the vital restoration of kindergartens and schools that have been waiting for decades. Unfortunately, due to the lack of state funds for investment in schools, this time we will not be able to renovate schools and kindergartens in Lucija in a short time. As a result, certain projects and the development of new programmes, projects and content, which are very important for the national community, will not be possible. For this reason, the Commission, at its meeting at the time of its consideration of the proposed budgets, proposed a decision to the Government to examine the proposals and comments arising from the discussion at the meeting of the Commission for National Communities and to take them into account, where possible, when preparing the supplementary budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for the next two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you, Member, for presenting your position. Now you have the word "magic." Marko Pogačnik on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u16	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us an additional draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021. The fact is that the budget is always the most important document of each country. The fact is that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia is also a mirror for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and the economy in which the country will operate over the next two years. The fact is that the updated proposal for the rebalancing of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 predicts record revenues of almost €11 billion, as well as record expenditure of some more than €10 billion. On record incomes, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group would like to thank, in particular, the economy and workers, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who have filled the budget of the Republic of Slovenia with their work. In the 2020 supplementary draft budget, the country will have more than €2 billion in tax revenue and more than half of it in 2014. The updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021 is not developed and is not targeted, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party. As I mentioned earlier, the government of Marjan Sarca and the current coalition have more tax revenues than 2.5 billion euros in 2014. On the other hand, only €81 million is spent on investments in the 2020 budget in the supplementary proposal, more than was invested in 2014. Once again, at 2 billion and a half higher tax revenues compared to 2014, the government of Marjan Sarca for investments is spending only €81 million more than in 2014. At the same time, we find in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that this budget is not austerity. The increase in income is shown by approximately 6 % of the gross domestic product value. With these figures, we certainly cannot accept the the thesis of some who want to sell to the public that this budget is cost-effective. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we find that public finances are increasingly intended to pay public wages and for most of the remaining losses of money. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the proposed budget will not solve the key problems facing the Republic of Slovenia in the last period. It will not solve health problems, it will not solve pension reform problems, it will not solve labour market problems and it will not solve youth problems. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the government of Marjana Sarca is building a budget for 2020 and 2021 on the basis of an unaltered policy, which does not respond to the urgent call for reforms. Reforms in the area of pensions, health care and long-term care, to which the European Union reminds us, are necessary to ensure social security for people and not to meet the expectations of European bureaucracy. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, there is also a great risk that in the future can reduce the stability of public finances and the balance of the budget and the compatibility of the budget with the fiscal rule. We cannot go beyond the fact that the economy is cooling down both in Europe and around the world. The forecasts for 2020, according to the International Monetary Fund's latest survey, are certainly slightly better than for 2019, but it is still important to stress that the automotive industry has seen a significant decline in Europe and around the world. The fact is that the Slovenian economy is relatively export-oriented and that a large part of the export economy is focused mainly on the automotive industry of Western Europe and the world. Both current and current situations point out that a number of measures will need to be taken to combat this decline or to redirect it to another part or other markets. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the figures proposed by the government of Marjan Sarca and the current coalition speak in exactly the opposite way. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party's assessment, which are the key problems of the complementary draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020 and 2021, we are convinced that one of the key problems remains public debt. The consolidated gross debt of the country is still higher than €32 billion and Slovenia and Slovenia will pay more than €750 million in 2020 only for interest. I repeat, more than 750 million euros will still be paid for interest in 2020. It is true that the country's debt is declining compared to gross domestic product, but this part is only declining due to a successful part of the economy, as economic growth helps to raise gross domestic product. As I have already mentioned, the country's public gross consolidated debt remains above 32 billion and is likely to remain the same at the end of the year as it was in 2018. The Governor of Banka Slovenije recently pointed out that public debt must be dealt with seriously. Taxes are a key problem that we still see in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that we are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the economy still too taxed. We certainly cannot agree with the opinion of the Minister for Finance and with the President of the Government, who are talking about tax reform, that in 2019 a tax reform was carried out by this coalition. It is true that it is necessary to recognise that one part of the income scale has been reduced and that this will allow citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to have more money in their pocket, an appropriate measure has been taken in the field of regression taxation. However, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the approach to tax reform should be bolder, especially given the fact that the Government has more than €2 billion and a half higher tax revenues than in 2015. The fact is that, in reducing the tax burdens on salaries for nationals and nationals of the Republic of Slovenia, employees, on the other hand, the Government additionally taxed the economy, additional capital taxes and additional taxes on profits. We are convinced that this reduces the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, and this competitiveness in the cooling of the economy in 2020 and 2021 does not have a positive outlook. As we have pointed out, tax revenues would allow for a bolder approach to reducing taxes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that Slovenia needs a fundamental tax reform. Where'd you get it? On the one hand, we have a tax debt still worth more than €1 billion. More than €1 billion is still a tax debt in Slovenia. An amount of more than 10 % of the annual revenue in the budget. According to the Slovenian Democratic Party, this amount is significantly too high and is not enough to do so. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that the government of Marjana Sharca continues to pursue the wrong excise policy. The argument that excise policy is wrong is, of course, also the figures in the 2020 and 2021 supplementary draft budget, as only excise duties fall from all revenue planned for 2020 and 2021. In the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, excise duties fall only for one reason – because excise duties in Slovenia are too high both in the field of oil derivatives, tobacco products and alcohol. Sometimes in Slovenia we could boast of some petrol tourism, today it is, I would say, the opposite. The fact is that a litre of oil is cheaper today in neighbouring Austria, and the fact is that about a thousand litres of heating oil in Austria is about 200 euros cheaper than in Slovenia, despite the fact that in Austria wages are higher and higher on average than in Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are concerned about the break-up of the work-week relationship. The fact is that the government of Marjan Sarca continues to pursue the policy of Mir Cerar and that today it is very close to being in the labour market or not, and that somehow the net available revenues are similar at the end of the month or after a month today. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that such a path is not appropriate, that it is an inadequate policy and that it is necessary to create a difference between work and work. Because if this policy continues, many will consider it better to sleep at home and get the money out of the country than to work. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not understand one more thing, from the figures presented for 2020 and 2021, we can see that despite higher economic growth, despite lower unemployment, social transfers are increasing and social aid is increasing. We consider that this is one of the key problems and that there is a major problem in the area of social transfers, in the provision of social assistance. Because it is difficult to understand that despite higher economic growth, the number of beneficiaries of social assistance is increasing. Here we appeal to both the government of Marjan Šarc and the coalition to identify the reasons for these increases in social aid beneficiaries in terms of lower unemployment and higher economic growth. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the need to have adequate social assistance, adequate social transfers, but we consider that such a system as is now inadequate. We see one very problematic area in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and this is the area of European funds, the Cohesion Fund funds. The fact is that for Slovenia these are the only development funds that are irreversible, and here also under the tactics of Marjana Sarca continues the issue that we have followed and warned of since the time of the government of Mir Cerar. This means a catastrophic drawdown of European funds. Slovenia has at its disposal 3 billion plus 800 million in 2014-2021, a total of 3 billion 800 million. Currently, Slovenia takes 19th place in the European Union after drawing on the effectiveness of European funds. The projects are taking place too slowly, the fact is that the government of Marjana Sharca has replaced two ministers in this area and that Slovenia is currently in this area for more than two months without a minister. I think that this is also an automatic signal, such as the relationship between the government of Marjan Sarca and this coalition and the European Union funds, of cohesion funds. I repeat, European funds are the only development funds that are irreversible. Banka Slovenije's measure, which has been introduced in the last period with regard to the limitation of both housing and consumer credits, highlighted two things: that in Slovenia there are markedly low salaries and that the country has not maintained an adequate housing policy over the past 25 years. The measure taken by the Bank of Slovenia, however, is estimated to reduce economic growth by around 90 million. It also shows that the government of Marjana Sarca and this coalition do not have the hearing to address this problem, because it is clear from the figures that this government in the budget for 2020 and 2021 is spending only €3.7 million to solve spatial planning and housing activities. I'm repeating 3.7 million euros. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that such a policy is wrong, inadequate and that this deepens the great problem of solving the first housing problem. In the area of population ageing, too, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the government of Marjana Sarca has not done enough, essentially insufficient resources for this government in the 2020 budget and 2021 earmarks for long-term care. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that there are also no commitments to form a demographic fund with which it has been delayed for more than three years, and that the demographic fund could in some way solve this problem. The old people's homes, the funds allocated to them by this government, amount to only €6 million for 2020. We are convinced that this money cannot build any home for the elderly, and in Slovenia we know that there are about 11,000 waiting adults on the waiting list. Another area that this government has overlooked. Sport is also likely to be one of the major losers of this budget. The fact is that sport is allocated from year to year less resources, but we probably see many politicians in VIP spaces and in front of photographic appliances with every success of Slovenian athletes. When sport needs to be further financed, all doors are closed. What else was interesting about the Committee on Finance, which addressed these two supplementary draft budgets for 2020 and 2021, and is very concerned about the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors? In the debate, there was a clear signal from two coalition parties that serious consideration should be given to abolishing or repealing the fiscal rule. This came from two coalition parties, mainly from the Party of the List of Marjan Šarc and, I think, also from Alenka Bratušek. The abolition of the fiscal rule is, in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, a completely inadequate measure, because the fiscal rule is a rule that guarantees for all generations behind us one certainty that a certain government does not owe them to abnormal heights. The fact is that Slovenia already has 32 billion debt, the fact is that this budget is not austerity, the fact is that revenue has increased by more than 6% of gross domestic product and we cannot talk about a austerity measure. The fact is that revenues are increasing due to inadequate measures taken by the government of Marjan Sarca and this policy. In the Slovenian Democratic Party as the responsible party, we have decided to put in place several amendments, amendments that would mainly redistribute funds and make the draft budget for 2020 and 2021 more developmental and more targeted. I would like to present key amendments that seem important to the Slovenian Democratic Party. The Bank of Slovenia's measure has done its part, so we are proposing an amendment of 150 million euros to allow a housing scheme to enable those who at the moment cannot reach housing loans through banks to do so. We are convinced that such a measure is necessary because the government of Marjan Sarca and the coalition in the 2020 budget are earmarking only €3.7 million to solve the housing problem. The amendment to increase long-term care funds was also included. In its very position, the problem of the elderly has already been mentioned, which is deepening from year to year. We have not seen from the proposed budget, at least in the SDS Group, that this coalition and the government of Marjan Sarca would give this problem a greater weight. You only spend €6 million on building a home for the elderly, which does not provide funds for any home. And investment funds in infrastructure, improvement of road links and railway infrastructure. These are the key amendments, the amendments that we see in the Slovenian Democratic Party to solve the problems that Slovenia faces the most and to make this budget developmental or targeted. The government has more than 2.5 billion tax revenues than in 2014. You have invested only €81 million. Although we can talk about record budget revenues, we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the budgets for 2020 and 2021 will not solve at least three key problems that are currently in Slovenia. The health situation in Slovenia, despite record revenue in the budget, has probably never been worse than it is today, and we do not see any improvement in the health sector in this budget. Despite record revenues in the budget for 2020 and 2021, the situation of the elderly has never been worse, with 11 000 in the waiting line for the elderly. We cannot support such an updated draft budget, as prepared by the coalition and the government of Marjan Sarca, for 2020 and 2021 in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The following position will be presented by Mr Robert Pavšič, the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u18	Good-bye, everybody! Ladies and gentlemen, if I say that in the coming years the highest expenditure in the area of the pension and health budgets of the municipalities, 21 billion and 480 million in 2021 and 22 billion and 160 million in 2021, this does not tell us much, except that this country has a lot of resources. If I tell you that in 2020 we will have as much as €415 million in surplus and already €657 million in surplus in 2021, then we can conclude that we are actually doing well. Given the surplus, we might think we don't know where the money is, but unfortunately it's not. This surplus could go into investment and science, but it can't. So much surplus is needed because we have one of the strictest fiscal rules. And if, years ago, in the Fiscal Rule Act, adopted by a two-thirds majority, we could not write down such strict conditions, for example, half the surplus could be allocated to municipalities, investments in railways and schools, and science, but unfortunately that is not possible. All that remains for us is that with bitter taste we can boast that we have both budgets in line with the fiscal rule and that we have a high surplus, but what is, is. Perhaps in the future, the majority of 60 Members and Members of Parliament will reconvene to correct the fiscal rule in a way that will allow us to invest more in infrastructure projects and science. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we will provide these votes. But let us return to the good €21 billion in 2020 and the good €22 billion in 2021 foreseen by the country in four cash registers. So many governments are planning to collect various taxes and contributions. As many public goods and services as the state collects, it can offer. It's pretty simple math. The services offered by the state sector are truly great, which is logical, since we have a solidarity model in Slovenia. However, the common goal of all four cash registers is to try and provide every individual in our country with the best possible living and working conditions and security. All in all, let me remind you that the Government unanimously established a cut for each ministry and other budgetary users in July. The ministries then, on the basis of the legal obligations and priorities set by ministers, prepared financial plans for ministries or within the department. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that we are spending more than our employment. More than wages, more contributions have been collected for the health and pension allowance. Since the economy is doing well because wages are growing, pension and health bills are also much more abundant. Thus, in 2020 there will be 5.84 billion in the pension fund and in 2021 there will already be 6.18 billion euros. Pensions will also be coordinated in 2020 and 2021. This year's pensions rose by 4.2%, with an increase of 4.5% in 2020 and an annual pension allowance of 145 million euros will be paid. All pensioners will also receive higher pensions in 2020. Let me illustrate. If today's lowest pension is €530 for 40 years of work, next February will be €557, and if the government of Marjana Sarca was on board with a pension of €600, the monthly pension of €647 will be due to the coordination of February 2020. The next area is the health sector, which needs rapid response due to demographic trends and technological developments. In terms of funding, the health sector can be divided into three parts: the part covered by the Ministry of Health is EUR 196 million; it is followed by commercial health insurance companies collecting supplementary health insurance and collecting over half a billion euros, from which they keep 10% or a good 50 million euros for themselves; and finally, there is the Health Insurance Office, which collects EUR 3.3 billion through health contributions. But the resources of the Department of Health Insurance are not directly affected by the Ministry or the Government. This is some kind of country in a country controlled mainly by representatives of the economy and trade unions and representatives of pensioners. There are 38 representatives in the 45-member Bureau Assembly, Government Four. However, all responsibility falls to the Ministry, not to those 45 representatives, who should be representatives of all the people of Slovenia. They shall not be known, nor shall they assume any responsibility for the effectiveness of the financing and functioning of the public health system. In this area, there will certainly be a need for serious reflection on the transformation of the functioning of the institution and the provision of resources for the health treasury in the future. Why? The health insurance company is too static to respond quickly to the new health findings. We need a modern insurance company that can adapt. The fact is that demographic trends and new technologies pose new challenges both in financing health care and in providing health resources. There will be an increasing number of older people in our society and fewer and fewer employees, and fewer people will be paid contributions to health insurance. Therefore, consideration will have to be given to new sources for health bills if we are to maintain such a public health model. At the same time, we must be aware that we do not have a specific source of funding for the long-term care of the elderly. How we will provide funds for the elderly in need of help will need to be decided in the coming year. Just as our company has decided to have a free education and we are providing a good billion and a half euros, it will be necessary to decide, through public funds, that we will also take care of the long-term care of the elderly. The third cash register, which is linked to both the pension and health allowance, is a state budget whose task is to provide additional funds for the pension fund if they are not collected enough. In 2020, a poor billion euro will have to be diverted to the pension fund because the contributions to pension insurance have not collected enough. The budget for 2020 is 10 billion 358 million and for 2021 10 billion 455 million. As I have already mentioned, the country must create the best business environment possible to finance our solidarity model through taxes. To this end, the country makes more than €300 million available for science in 2020 and a total of 600 million in both years. This will ensure the conditions for a stable and competitive business climate and encourage greater efficiency of the research potential. Since we want greater cooperation between the scientific and economic spheres, to increase the innovation and competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, the funds are also intended to promote the technological development of enterprises, entry into foreign markets and tourism development. Investing in different infrastructures is of the utmost importance. In the field of investment in transport infrastructure, there has been a significant shift compared to previous years. Investment in state roads and railways, as well as sustainable mobility, is being accelerated. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we are convinced that it is imperative to start directing investments in rail infrastructure and also sustainable mobility after major investments in the motorway cross. In the field of railway infrastructure, all eyes are focused on the construction of the second track of Koper-Divac, but this section without modern infrastructure throughout Slovenia does not mean much. Therefore, investments in modernisation are also taking place on the entire Šentilj-Maribor-Celje-Zidani Most-Ljubljana-Divača route as well as Hodoš-Pragersko. An upgrade of the Karavanka railway tunnel will take place in the area of Gorenjska and is planned to renovate the Ljubljana–Kranj–Jesenice route. Let me also mention the purchase of new passenger trains heading towards improving public rail passenger transport. Many investments will also take place within the Ministry of Environment and Space. In addition to the rehabilitation of different areas due to inappropriate behaviour of people and businesses, a large part of the funds will be directed towards flood protection, for which a total of EUR 215 million will be allocated in 2020 and 2021. In the area of implementation of the measures to be taken towards the mitigation of the climate crisis, €250 million is earmarked in two years. However, we must not forget the area of housing policy that has been missed in recent years, since the Housing Fund has been building apartments for sale instead of renting. That's what's changed now. In the public hearing, the housing law, which is expected to be passed somewhere in March next year, will take several measures to increase the public housing fund. The Housing Law also provides for state guarantees for citizens' loans, which for the first time solve the housing problem. To this end, we have laid down in the law on the implementation of the budget 2020-2021 that up to 200 million state guarantees can be made at the annual level by the State. In addition, the Housing Fund has started investing in thousands of 500 rental apartments, and in parallel it is preparing everything else necessary to start investing in an additional thousand 500 apartments. This year, the state transferred three construction plots to the fund, and six more will be transferred next year. Free and accessible education is a sign of the social state, but it also has a strong development note. People with different knowledge are the greatest added value of any society. Over €1.7 billion are allocated to education in the budget, almost half of the funding is allocated to primary school and the remainder to secondary and vocational education and higher education. Of course, many things could be improved, but if we look at the whole thing, we are on the right track. The funds are not intended only for the educational programme, but also for the subsidisation of lunch, transport. Since next year, free textbooks will be not only for the first and second, but also for the third grade of primary school. The country, along with the congregations, cares for the most vulnerable and quality of family life. In 2020, we earmark €1.3 billion for social transfers and family policy. The most funds are allocated for parental benefits, scholarships, co-financing of food for students and students, financing of free kindergarten for families with multiple children in kindergarten, subsidisation of schools in nature, subsidisation of the transport of students and students, child allowances, social security, compensation for unemployed, war disabled, veterans and so on. In these days we have been able to read that Slovenia is one of the safest countries in the world. And it doesn't come from itself. In the area of security, purchase of various police and military equipment and protection and resolution equipment, EUR 980 million is allocated for migration policy measures, cyber security and security against natural and other disasters. For a long time, too, the area of defense is provided with funds, not because of Nate, but because of the needs of our army. If we have already decided to have an army, it is our duty to take care of it. It is the responsibility of the Minister and his team to use these funds to modernize the military in a thoughtful, professional and transparent manner, with a clear aim that our soldiers will have modern equipment to serve them in their tasks and at the same time protect them. Unfortunately, this has not always been the case. The last cash register is a treasury municipality, with an estimated € 2,320 billion in 2020 and €2.360 billion in 2021. As I said at the outset, our country's model is based on solidarity, which is provided mainly through tax payments. We pay different taxes to various public treasuryes and thus enable the safety and development of children and adolescents, the safe age of pensioners, various public services and goods, and the building of the necessary public infrastructure. Of course, some at home and abroad are working to change our social model of a country based on intergenerational solidarity. This is their legitimate right, of course, but we decide on this in elections, not by coercion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u20	Dear Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The draft budgets for the next two years, which we are considering these days, are the main victims of a strict fiscal rule and its even stricter interpretations. Since the last crisis has hit this society and the country very hard, its key decision makers live in constant fear of the new crisis and therefore the budget for next year is almost 100 million below the adopted maximum spending framework and the original proposal prepared by the Government. This budget, like many others before it, lacks investment resources. This is evident in several areas, investments in new buildings, transport connections, equipment and infrastructure are still at a low level despite the slow rise. Dearly beloved, the budget is never everyone and completely satisfied. Everyone would like more money on some item, less. The priorities of the Government and these budgets are health, science, the safety of citizens and citizens, the economy. The dissatisfaction that some have experienced is thus a logical consequence of the choice of priorities, the logical consequence of the fiscal rule and the logical consequence of the fact that more than 90% of the state budget funds have already been allocated in advance. Only a poor 10% of the budget can actually be allocated according to political priorities; everything else is about legal obligations. Each budget is therefore a package, a package of all the obligations that the country must and can assume. At the end of this package, we need to evaluate this package as a whole, so when we adopt the budget, we need to look at the whole and the wider picture. The two-year budget, to which Slovenia has also passed Slovenia as one of the few members of the European Union, gives us the possibility of planning for a longer period, not just one step forward. The budgetary resources in the country shall operate over a long period of time. Their importance is often measured through the stability of funding that can be provided to certain social sub-systems. Estimates are important trends, not just the specific amount of funds per item. It is therefore important that the funds for most programmes be increased. It is important to increase development resources, as only through public investment in research and development will we be able to ensure an increase in added value, which is the basis of a higher standard of residents and residents. It is important to provide funds, even modest and limited, for some key areas that have long been neglected. Support for key cultural programmes is one of these items. The modest resources brought by the adoption of the law on certain programmes in culture constitute important progress in caring for Slovenian culture and cultural heritage, and it is therefore crucial for the Social Democrats to be properly placed in budgetary documents. In a few months of the ongoing budgetary debate, the compliance of the proposed budget with the fiscal rule has been highlighted as an important issue in order to prevent the country from overexpenditure, which could lead to problems. Let us leave aside the reasons why Slovenia had to adopt a fiscal rule this time, but let us remind ourselves that those who had warned the most outspokenly against the non-compliance of this budget, when adopting a fiscal rule, required even more stringent restrictions that would leave the country with even less room for manoeuvre. And why is that important? Because it has been these critics who have been constantly calling on the Fiscal Council for help in recent months who have tabled new and new proposals for amendments, whose adoption would certainly lead us to an unconstitutional state. We must therefore point out that the Fiscal Council has done its constitutional task in its entirety and well. He examined the budgetary plans in detail, assessed the risk and warned him clearly and in good time. All decision makers were clearly alerted to all potential risks. In his estimates, the fiscal world did not turn on the red light to stop the vehicle, lit the yellow light, which must be taken into account by a reasonable driver and know that he is driving on his own responsibility and adapting to the conditions on the road. Social Democrats believe that the drafter has taken account and Members have understood the risks exposed, so we can proceed with the budget drive with caution. Some passengers, the same people who, due to overexpenditure in 2012, called for the help of a three-way towing service, are today making amendments that are clearly contrary to their other concern for the stability of public finances. If this was sincere, it is difficult to believe in the sincerity of the current financial appetites of the proponents, and of course vice versa. We all want the stability of public finances and, more effectively, the objectives and people-oriented governance of the country. This can be achieved primarily by ensuring a sustainable funding package for key priorities and the simultaneous functioning of the whole system. Our concern for the adoption of the budget must be for the benefit of the people. They are the reason why priorities have been adopted and why we are working on the realisation of the agreed ones. Therefore, the adoption of the budget is not and should not be just a struggle for one minute of interest for another amendment to provide important funds for a key project. This applies both to those who have committed ourselves to supporting the government and to those who are included in the so-called opposition. The budget documents are intended to distribute public funds between the departments, users and key projects. They are not intended to provide funding for each individual infrastructure project. We would expect ministers and ministers to allocate these funds to individual projects, and instead the National Assembly will turn each year into a group of lobbyists trying to direct specific projects at local and micro level, particularly in the field of road infrastructure. We believe that this is not the best way of doing things, because with each such proposal we know that we are not interested in a wider picture and a better life for all, but we are focusing only on individual parts that are of course important, but we should resolve them in agreement with the competent ministries, not with populist ideas that would prove that we care about people in the place where we were elected. Surely this can also be proved to be different from the amendments to the budget. Each budget, including this one before us, has certain reserves in all areas. The public administration is the target of a large number of amendments that they want to take there to be added elsewhere. Surely the public administration could be more rational, not just in terms of salaries, but mainly in terms of performance and efficiency, but we must not head it. Many shortcomings also stem from long-term lost bad practices which penalise austerity and efficient budget users next year with lower resources, while they know the most successful end-of-year to spend all the allocated funds. It is certainly necessary to talk about this and to strive for change, but not by taking funds from the public administration every time we see the need for somewhere else. We expect a lot of time, words and energy to be focused on the resources that will belong to the municipalities when the budgetary documents are considered. In particular, we have in mind the amount of the average, at which we did not really expect such a negative response to the Government's proposal, which for the first time fully respects the law in force in determining the amount of the average. Although the proposed average was significantly higher than last year, new requirements emerged. While these are certainly legitimate, we need to be aware of the drivers of development of local communities. The proposed increase in the average would give the municipalities more €32 million to carry out the tasks of the State. In this regard, it should also be noted that, through cooperation with the municipalities, the Government has also drawn up a proposal for a law that would reduce the burden on municipalities by about the same annual amount, which is certainly a step in the right direction. Nevertheless, the parental committee supported additional amendments, which still raise funds for the average. It is clear to us that the congregations are often significantly more effective with their means, but in this case, the Social Democrats are leaning towards dialogue, not ultimatums. The local communities are a partner of the country, not its opponents, so the right way would be to continue dialogue on the powers and execution of tasks, in which there could also be a more fair sharing of funding. Instigating divisions between municipalities and the country can only benefit those who are concerned with performances and elections, not people. Dearly beloved, today and tomorrow we will hear a lot of good and probably justifiable proposals for improving this budget. Many are worthy of support and immediate realization. Applicants will try to prove that it is worth reducing funding elsewhere where it is supposed to be less important. It is then our duty to remember that we have been sent here to see a wider picture and to adopt an overall, realistic and feasible budget for every citizen and citizen. The Social Democrats' Group of Draft Budgets for 2020 and 2021 announces a single support.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Zorčič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u22	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In the SMC, we advocate a policy that leads to economic and social development, which is sustainable and at the same time social. Through the prism of these priorities, we also assess the budget on a case-by-case basis. Even though the budget revenue is as high as 2 billion in 2015 and we are still witnessing EU average economic growth, this does not oblige us to accept the budget responsibly. With this aim, I particularly note that we are in a period of changed economic conditions, this is a slowdown in economic growth which, in a black scenario, could also lead to a new economic crisis. However, the desire for budgetary money does not change. The proposals of some opposition parties seem as generous as that of money growing in a tree and as if we are not aware that we still have over a billion public debt, which is declining relative to GDP, but remains nominally high, especially in view of the pre-economic crisis. As we advocates in the SMC for ensuring the medium-term balance of public finances, we have drawn attention to the risks posed by institutions such as the Fiscal Council, taking seriously and well-intentionally, because we want to maintain a medium-term sustainable fiscal policy, as set out in the previous mandate after the adoption of the Fiscal Rule Act. It is precisely because of such a policy in recent years that we are discussing economic growth, budgetary surplus and relatively small public debt. Today and in the past there have been quite a few concerns about the fiscal rule and we must express some concern in our Group about this, because this rule is nothing more than a restriction on national consumption. And if we do not know today that these appetites will stop after we have more than 2 billion revenue than in 2015, then surely the long-term abolition of the fiscal rule will not help us, and we will soon find ourselves in a situation when we owe the country and generations behind us for even more, so we will raise public debt even more than it has already been raised due to the consequences of the economic crisis. The state budget for 2020 foresees €10 billion 350 million in expenditure, and expenditure for 2021 is planned to be €10 billion 455 million and increases by a good 100 million compared to 2020. Both budgets will also include budget surpluses, a budget for 2020 of €468 million, or 0.9% of GDP, and a budget for 2021 of €656.6 million, or 1.2% of GDP. As previously said, we are also relatively reducing public debt. These are steps or circumstances that allow us to be better prepared for potentially changed economic circumstances. Although the vast majority of budget expenditure is legally fixed, whether it is the functioning of public institutions, wages and contributions, transfers to individuals or households, or, if otherwise, for wages, social transfers, payments to pension funds, this cannot be an excuse for nothing to change or for nothing to be done. On the contrary! It is possible and in the SMC we are convinced that budgets, at least as proposed by the Government and the Ministry of Finance, allow for economic development, which will be sustainable and which will also represent a fair social policy. In terms of investment with multiple effects, it is of particular importance that budget and accompanying laws, which we will also talk about in the following points, allow or continue investment in rail and road transport. Here I am thinking mainly of the third development axis, the guarantees that are in the second law and the second track that we have sought in the SMC and would like to be financed differently from the budget; therefore, with the money of the behind countries. However, if this project is implemented, it will be an investment with effects on economic growth, which is crucial in view of the warnings from statistical organisations and the Fiscal Council. The budget also contains all the necessary resources for other public, local investments. Among other things, let me mention HE Mokrice, which is currently stopped due to various complaints, but the budget also expresses ambitions in this area, which is part of a sustainable policy, on the other hand, part of energy policy and on the third hand represents some positive effects on economic growth in the coming period. As part of the overall assessment of the budget in the SMC, we also welcome the emphasis in other areas, for example in the area of culture under the coming cultural euro law and the increased means of defence that are urgently needed for the further development of the Slovenian Army. If I can describe both of you a little bit. The Cultural Euro Act is a proposal that we have proposed in the previous mandate. The cultural aspect of human life must by no means be neglected, so we have been working for a long time in the SMC to adopt such a law. Unfortunately, the law did not receive adequate political support in the previous term. But we hope to correct this mistake this week. All of this, of course, has an important impact on the provision of public finances in this socially important area. Security is also something we must not neglect. Despite the fact that we are increasing defence funds, we are not yet at 2% of GDP. We hope that the target of reaching 1.5% by 2020-2025 is achievable. We also welcome the fact that more resources are earmarked for the renovation of equipment, both for the military and for the police. Ensuring better conditions for the work of both of us must be the commitment of all of us. In the context of the resources covered by SMC ministers, we would like to highlight the following. During the last weeks of the lending restriction measure adopted by the Bank of Slovenia, much has been said by the policy on the country's housing policy. However, before the action by Banka Slovenije, the Ministry of Environment and Space prepared a draft amendment to the housing legislation, which addresses the problems of housing shortages. In the light of this law, which we will adopt at one of the next meetings, we are pleased to have managed to convince the coalition that it will also place the State guarantee for housing loans into the set of housing policy measures with the amendment. I am talking about the law that we will deal with at one of the following points, but it falls under the legislation when the budget is adopted. This is a measure that targets young people who for the first time solve the housing issue and the amount of income or form of employment does not allow them to obtain credit on their own. An additional 400 million over the next two years will ease this problem slightly, but without appropriate long-term thought-out and just housing policies, the generations behind us will be without a roof over our heads and we must not allow this to happen. Today, we will certainly hear the news of the budget that it does not pay enough attention to housing policy, which it does not, because the lack of housing policy over the past decades cannot be changed overnight. The additional measure is also the lack of earmarked assets and housing fund capital of almost EUR 13 million. The intentional increase in the assets of the Housing Fund is more than necessary due to the need for additional real estate. Let me also remind you here of the agreement on the acquisition of real estate from the Bank Claims Management Company. So in the SMC, we will continue to advocate that in our country, all citizens will have the opportunity to obtain suitable housing, which is not the last thing that the Constitution provides, but also this budget that we are adopting is looking for in this direction. As far as social policy is concerned, it should be pointed out that the country spends more than 125 million euros on monetary social assistance and social policy than at the time of the biggest crisis, namely EUR 1.2 billion, including in the case of wage increases, the maintenance of 30 per cent higher financial assistance and the release of the last austerity measures for children and families. Let me mention that the country continues to take these measures in certain areas. By the end of the year, we will have on our tables a new Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which extends the maternity, paternity and parental leave, improves the situation of families where the mother is unemployed at birth, and improves the situation of student families. In view of the above, it should be stressed that the state maintains a high level of social security. Also for SMC, social policy is, in a broader sense, one of the basic tasks of the State and a tool for planning other functions of the State. In the current situation, we can see that a specific social policy measure could provide a greater incentive for the labour market to be included in situations where the human resources economy cannot be attracted in any way. I mean, of course, I have a supplement to work activity. In the SMC, we will always be advocates of a fair social policy, one which will act as some kind of security network and which will empower people in the final stage to enter the labour market and thus ensure their inclusion in social security and decent pay for the work done. And yes, that also means those where social transfers cannot be higher than wages. We cannot defend social policy in the SMC based on the risk of deepening social exclusion in the short and long term. We are of the opinion that the country must offer all its citizens the opportunity to take care of themselves and their social security. However, the long-term social security allowance for work does not provide them with this social security in our opinion. Surely, sustainable development and climate change are also one of the most important issues, not only in Slovenia, but in the whole world. The question of how in the modern world to interact with nature and find a balance between development and taking into account the sustainable component of this. This means, at home, that we must be aware that every intervention in the environment has an impact on it. In recent days, we have been monitoring contributions to flood threats in particular on daily reports. In Slovenia, as many as 10 per cent of the surfaces of the flood are at risk, it is right that the budget spends as much as €215 million on solving this problem. We must move on to a sustainable economy and also find opportunities for quality jobs. The first steps are accelerated with the green scheme of Slovenian tourism. In the SMC future of Slovenia we see in green shades, the protection of natural resources, the steady development of energy sources, and in particular in solidarity with international efforts to develop a carbon-free society. The challenges posed by global warming are not something one government will deal with, but rather the challenges will require a broader political consensus and targeted activities over a longer period of time. The financing of the fight against climate change and adaptation to climate change, which today is largely through the Eco Fund, which conducts calls for municipalities and citizens to co-finance sustainable mobility – for example, electric cars, transport, cycling infrastructure, wood construction, for the exchange of combustion plants – needs to be upgraded. We therefore welcome the preparation of a long-term climate policy in Slovenia, and we also assess that resources in the budget are seeking to implement these ambitions. As far as foreign policy is concerned, it should be pointed out that, due to the Presidency of the European Union, which awaits us in the second half of 2021, and due to greater emphasis on economic diplomacy, we support the planned opening of new diplomatic and consular representations both within the European Union and in the Middle East, Asia and Africa, which we see as an exceptional opportunity to increase Slovenia's presence and visibility in partner countries. While the costs of the diplomatic representation abroad amount to around EUR 600,000 per year, we must be aware that these costs are much lower than the benefits that well-functioning diplomacy brings to our country in economic, scientific, cultural and other areas. Long-term care; this is something we need in the country, and there is a broader political consensus on this. Not yesterday or today, long-term care should be planned substantially earlier. For people deserve to be given safe and dignified age. We know that we are talking again about a project whose key embarrassment lies in providing funding for its implementation. Together, we will have to start to realize that this will be something that we will all have to contribute to. In the light of demographic changes and projections that are forecasting an ever-increasing proportion of the older population, this is something we must not put on the sidelines of this mandate. On the contrary, activity must be accelerated and all necessary efforts must be made to finalize the law. Of course, there will also be the one about the financing of long-term care and about which there will be the most contradictory opinions. We agree that in this area there has been insufficient quality treatment in recent years, so we need to move forward, such as providing additional seven hundred beds in nursing homes, opening up the possibility of building new units of public institutions based on the principle of public-private partnership and drawing on more than ten million European funds intended primarily for deinstitutionalisation, certainly welcome. No budget in the history of the Republic of Slovenia has been adopted without a certain compromise, which is the result of the implementation of coalition policies, and so is the case. The fact is that we have an important decision ahead of us, the budget is one of the most important documents of the country. If it is proposed and accepted by a minority coalition, it holds it even more, and there is no time or room for any kind of harassment. It is important for the SMC that the budgets provide a good basis for the implementation of the programme policies that we have agreed on, so we will give them our unanimous support on Thursday. However, the adoption of budgets does not mean that someone can go on vacation; on the contrary, the adoption of budgets means that the government and the ministries must roll up their sleeves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much. As a last resort, Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I will begin my position with the conclusion that I always make at the beginning of the budget; that is, the budget is a government policy that is translated into numbers. What the government has promised, what the government has committed itself to, it must get meat in the budget. Those policies that have received their items will be implemented and those policies that have not received their items in this document will be missed. This budget is a key programme document of this government. Indeed, the Government has now spent its first year, today we accept, say, the direction of the ship for the next two years, and after these two years we are practically just before the elections, in the pre-election year. What the government will do will be in the next two years. And what the Government will do, we can largely understand from the budget proposed as the main programming document for these two years. If we first look at things where the funds are increasing or where the government has determined that the areas are priority. Clearly, it is one of the few areas where the government estimates that saving is not necessary, an army or a narrower supply of weapons. To this end, the funds increase by 100 million euros over the next two years, by waves, by flamethrowers and so on, by 100 million euros. There is also an increase in subsidies to businesses and capital, an increase of 51 million this year, an increase of 82 million next year, a total of 462 million euros. Whether this is justified, we do not know because the Ministry has not submitted any document on the economic, social, environmental eligibility of these subsidies. We do know, however, that there are many things in these subsidies that are contrary to the government's declared objectives, for example, the green ones. According to Umanoter, EUR 53 million per year of these subsidies is to subsidise fuels for motorists. Thus, if we are talking about a green tax reform or at least a green reform of this part of state subsidies, we can immediately conclude that it has not been implemented. The third area to be highlighted here, where funds are increasing and which are considered to be a priority by the Government, is the doubling of funds for the Owl, the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Service, which is the largest recipient of this budget. Why the government has decided that the most important thing in this peaceful year is the doubling of funds for the security and intelligence agency, everyone can answer. The only thing we can assess in Levica is that such an increase is not justified. Where's the funding coming from? Many areas have been exposed to the Committee and even today. They're clearly missing from housing policy. Last year, when we were preparing a joint coalition agreement, the government committed itself to increasing housing policy funds to 0.4% of GDP, which is the European average, which translates into figures, which means that in 2020 and 2021 it should be around €180 million per year for housing policy. How much is in these budgets? Every year there's about 3 million 700. So 180 was promised, 3 million 700 realized. From this you can already create an image of what housing policy this government will create. Prices of real estate, especially at urban centres, where it is now increasing not only the state administration, even when you sold companies like Gorenje, you could read that now from Velenje Chinese Hisense, if I say so correctly, is transferring the parent company to Ljubljana. When you sold New Bank of Maribor, this one moved to Ljubljana and so on. In short, it's getting thicker here. Prices of real estate fly into the sky. You could read in the media that Ljubljana was the European city with the highest price growth in the last year. With its housing policy, however, the country remains blind and deaf to this problem. The problem is, of course, especially young people, non-Ljubljana students and those who have to drive to Ljubljana to work, although if housing policy existed, they could rent an apartment or buy an apartment. But housing policy, as it has been said, will, as in the last 20 years, remain nonexistent. We can conclude that this country's housing policy has started and ended with the law of Jasbinska, then Swiss credits have been lost somewhere, and nothing has been lost since then. The second thing we point out in Levica is railways. When we talk about climate, it should be said that transport in Slovenia is the largest single cause of CO2 emissions. More than 38% of CO2 comes from transport. If you look at what is in the budget, you will see that there is a second track on the railway lines mainly, while the routes in both directions from Ljubljana to the northwest or to the Jesenicas as well as to the northeast or towards Maribor remain single. These funds are out. There won't be any funds. While you can drive from Brussels to London, if I am not mistaken, in an hour and a half, you can spend about that time travelling from Maribor to Ljubljana or even longer. 90 minutes will be the achievement now promised by Slovenian Railways. I think it currently takes a substantial longer journey from Maribor to Ljubljana than from Brussels to London or from Brussels to Paris. There we are now with Slovenian railways and it appears that it will remain there for the next two years. Then, as one of the main priorities of the coalition treaty, the government gave itself long-term care. We know that thousands of elderly people are waiting for a place in nursing homes. The public network is underdeveloped. Among concessionaires we have detected and there are also media, many controversial practices, wind prices and so on. There is a possibility in the budgets to build one home for the elderly, which is more difficult. The amendments we have drafted in Levica have been rejected by the parent committee, so there will also be no movement in this area. When we talk about the development of the country, we need to draw attention to the resources for development and research. The government has pledged to devote one percent of GDP to this area, which is about €440 million. While the funds are increasing but slightly, approximately enough to absorb an increase in wages in the research sector. It is far from enough to convince young people who today, after completed colleges, masters or PhDs, must seek happiness and jobs and research projects abroad. As we know, many of them do not return. With us, people in colleges will continue to work for about a thousand 200, a thousand 300 euros with initial salaries in research, but there will be no means to significantly improve their position or to keep their intelligence at home. In order to promise the closure of TER 6 and so on, we do not speak; all of this has fallen out of the budget. For the last time, I said in a joke at the Climate Council that our government's climate commitments are about that, roughly as they say by 2030, we will reduce our carbon footprint by 40 percent. This is about the kind of commitment that I would say, by 2030, I will learn five foreign languages, but I will learn them starting in November 2029, and by then I will have forgotten those two that I now know. We have roughly this attitude towards climate change and all the other development priorities that I have mentioned. These things can't be delayed indefinitely. These things cannot be deferred to a future mandate, to a future government, these things need to be evaluated in budgets if we are serious here and now with promises. And what we can draw under the line is that the government, with the promises, the commitments it made in the coalition agreement, did not mean anything. If I go to another field, then what is the purpose of this budget. The objective of this budget is very simple and has already been presented by the Minister of Finance. The goal is fiscal abstinence, or following the fiscal rule, which is one of the most restrictive, one of the strictest, one of the most conservative in Europe. Here I will say this; those who support this goal at all costs, that the fiscal rule must be followed, that in the next two years the state must create more than a billion euros in debt repayment surplus, usually say, yes, if we do not do so, we can be caught up again around the corner by the crisis that we saw at the beginning of the decade that is now ending. So the debt crisis in companies, in banks, in the over-indebted financial and real sector, which must be resolved by the state. Is such a crisis really in sight? If you look at the indicators, you will see in Slovenia that we are very far away from this. Residents are not over-indebted. They have 20 billion euro deposits in their banks; they are very cost-effective; on the other hand, they have half less, ten billion euros, loans. So the population is absolutely not in debt. Are over-indebted companies? Companies currently have even less debts than residents. If the population has 10 billion credits, companies have 8.4 billion euros in credit, so businesses are not over-indebted either. Are they over-indebted banks? No, because the state just filled them with billions of public money. And a second time. Banks, at least that is how you spoke when you sold them, should no longer be concerned about the Republic of Slovenia, because they are now in foreign ownership, so their owners must deal with them. Are we facing a debt crisis? No, no, no. What kind of crisis awaits us? This is already showing up, and this is the kind of crisis that I warned about in 2017 when I was talking about Achilles the Fifth. At the time, many thought I was a fool when I said that the crisis would not come through the banks, as Matthew Tonin then said, or as you say today, many in this room, but I said if the crisis catches us, it's at the point of export. Slovenia has a focus on four main external markets. Slovenia is, to a large extent, a subcontractor of several foreign companies, strongly linked to the French and German automotive sectors, and if these two sectors begin to dry, which has now begun to happen, then Slovenia will cough even harder than the home countries. So, this is where the crisis lies. And what can a country do in such a crisis? In such a crisis, when the economy starts to stop, by definition, any economic theory or any economic textbook must launch an investment plan. Today you do not have to read this from some crazy left literature, you can turn to the AMF, which will tell you that the past crisis has been solved by fiscal rules and saving in the wrong way, that it has therefore lasted a significant long time in Europe and that it has to be resolved through public investment. If you ask the Americans, Larry Summers, who was solving the US financial crisis in 2008, 2009, 2010 under Obama, he will tell you that the time has come when governments thought that the economy could be encouraged by tax cuts – which, by the way, ours is also doing, the income will be a second year for some 200 million euros less than it would have been if there were no tax changes in this government – but says Larry Summers that it is necessary to think about starting public investments. Even if you go to the source, the author, the architect of the fiscal rule, Christian Kastrop, he is a German economist employed by the German finance ministry, which was the initiator of the fiscal rule in Europe – what does he say today? He found, as I am now finding, that investments in Germany had stopped, that there was no money for green breakthroughs, that infrastructure investments in railways and similar stops, and he said: "The time has come when it was necessary to go beyond fiscal rules and Germany should establish a multibillion-dollar investment fund to access the cheap money available today in European financial markets and invest in railways, development, research, green technologies and so on." Does our government have a similar plan? According to these budgets, we're a long way from that. According to these budgets, we are still somewhere in the time of Minister Mumorr, when the main objective of this country is to follow the fiscal rule. And if we can find that the crisis in Slovenia was a problem because they started to solve it too late – well, Minister Križanič missed the resolution of banks, which is why it was delayed in 2012, 2013, 2014, when the problem was much worse than it would have been if we had solved it in time – so now at the end of the crisis decade we can find that we stopped the crisis too late. The crisis is over; the crisis that we see in the horizon is completely different in nature and it is time for Slovenia to stop stepping forward one step for reality, one step for trends, but to start acting proactively. Perhaps, in view of the discussions that this government has, as well as the National Assembly, read a foreign newspaper, you will see where the current debates in Europe and the United States are going — heading in the direction that I have described about right now. And if we are to come up with the challenges of the next decade, we will have to think in this direction. Let me slowly turn to the conclusion; as it is said, the ship is set in a certain direction, the compass is the budget we accept, it has many flaws in key areas, from housing, railways, climate policy, development, research, long-term care and so on. In Levica we have prepared amendments with which we will try to close this course to where we see the biggest problems. But in fact, much more can be corrected at this point, so we cannot support budgets, but in the next two years, when budgets are being implemented, we will do our best to turn policies into good for the sake of what has been promised in the coalition treaty, and to stop Slovenia from stepping forward, but to capture the current development trends that we will not take an all-time step towards Europe, but perhaps we can finally take a step ahead of it. Let me conclude by finding Nassim Taleb, who said that small countries have a key advantage that we do not realize in Slovenia; this is that they are compact companies that can change their course in changed circumstances, if only political will, quickly change their development model. Unfortunately, we missed the opportunity with this budget, but – tomorrow is a new day! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded with a joint introductory presentation and a presentation of the views of the groups of Members on the supplementary draft budgets for 2020 and 2021. We are moving on to a debate on each proposal for an act separately. We continue with item 2 of the agenda, this is the consideration of the updated Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2020. We are moving on to a debate on the supplementary draft budget and will discuss individual parts of the supplementary draft budget and the amendments tabled. As an individual part, the general part, the specific part and the development programme plan shall be considered. We are moving on to the general part of the supplementary draft budget and I am opening an application for discussion. We have four panellists. The first one gets the word mag. Andrej Shircelj, prepare Mrs. Anja Bah Žibert. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! When we talk about the budgets for 2020 and for 2021, we really only need to look at the content here. In fact, we need to look at the direction this government, this coalition, will lead the country. Of course, we also need to see whether this budget will actually make the country, citizens and citizens go into a brighter, better future, whether this budget is actually designed to make people benefit from it or not. And we have to look, of course, at the development itself, at the development of the whole country. With one indicator that is symptomatic of this budget, and this indicator is higher revenue – for example, for 2014, if we compare 5 years, these revenues are greater than 2 billion and a half – then of course we need to see where these areas are headed. Most of these revenues, a very large majority, are actually focused on spending; they are simply spending that will happen. It may have some positive effects, especially in terms of increased population consumption, but these effects, according to money, will be minimal in terms of the amount of money. There may be a little more due to this value added tax, but given that there is no target targeting of higher revenues, the synergies will simply be smaller than they could be; and this is much smaller. This is unfortunately the basic thread of this budget. The basic thread of this budget is that this government is not capable of any leap into higher installations, higher development facilities, to development with higher added value, to development where, in fact, the state and the economy themselves would be more competitive. We do not constantly compare ourselves with those to whom we can compare ourselves; we compare ourselves with those who are better when we compare ourselves or compare ourselves with what we can do during a certain period of time, but we have not actually done so. We can also compare ourselves. There are many areas where this government does not actually see or want to see any possibilities for development, but, simply, the status quo policy, the policy of inertness. What has happened in the previous period is simply slightly increased, perhaps redistributed somewhere, depending on which minister is strong in the government, or how much more powerful or less powerful a lobby is. If we look at the key areas that are not actually covered by this government even when it comes to the distribution of money, the areas relating to young people in the health field are older people and who simply do nothing about health care, after all, health is linked to all people. There is simply no quality progress in these areas. If we start with health care, then I can say that there is really no quality leap into better health care, regardless of the fact that health has much more money today than five years ago. Even if you look at the medical checkbook, a few hundred million more. What do people get out of it? Where are the visible effects of this extra money? In fact, it is not in the quality of treatment, nor is it in that waiting species are significantly reduced. For this reason, I am talking about the need to look at only the content of the budget, and how this money is used if it is already being spent on a matter. Where's he going? It may go to administration, it may go into some purchase of some new equipment, but in fact, because of this health care here is not effective. My personal thesis is that, in fact, in health care, we would need a much better organisation, much better organisational receipts than money actually being put into health care and some of the effects in this area are not. Second, the area for the elderly. If we look at homes, how many are available and what are the real needs. Here we see an extremely large gap between this and this gap, I am not saying that this government could reduce it, but we could start to reduce it, but not that. You could at least start reducing it. There is no significant progress and no real progress in building homes for older citizens. But the administration is probably going to spend all this extra money, and that's actually all -- in short, we're going after the inertia. There has been a great deal in the views of the parliamentary groups on youth and on the perspective of young people. See, all this housing policy, all the employment policy, and so on are reflected in one fact; in fact, six, seven, eight thousand young people move out of the country every year. Here you can see the perspective of young people in this country and how this government and this coalition give them the opportunity to stay here to see this perspective: whether it goes over wages, appropriate jobs, the possibility of getting housing and so on. Because they do not see it, they are educated in Slovenia, the vast majority of them, many young people, and they go abroad. This is an indicator of the state's perspective, the government's perspective and its perspective. This is one of the basic indicators, whether the young want to be here, the educated ones. And I'm not going to talk about how much money it gives to these young people in the educational process. No, I'll talk about whether this is a society and whether this government gives a perspective for young people. I'm afraid he doesn't give it here. In fact, this budget has seen all the misery when Banka Slovenije adopted a measure to ensure that everyone has to stay that much and that much money if he takes a consumer or housing loan. At that time, the wage gap was seen, and there was actually a lack of perspective of this company and, after all, the operation of this government, when the Prime Minister said that he would make a guarantee scheme for young people within one year. The Law on the Guarantee Scheme has already been introduced by the Slovenian Democratic Party into the adoption process, so that you can make an effort, and at least a few prospects will be more for young people before you make a law that can be slightly prescribed or unwritten, but these laws can be made very quickly. Only this government, as the Prime Minister has said, takes one year to do so. You know, in one year, there's a lot of other things going on. If we're talking about giving 81 million for investment, see, that's very little. And if we are talking about the fact that there are no measures to improve the economic environment for entrepreneurs in the explanation of this budget, then we have done little or nothing about the prospects of this country for entrepreneurs. If there are no substantive measures, for example, which of the 20,000 regulations currently in force in this country will end and increase the ease of management in this society. If this measure is not, however, how administration and bureaucracy work and how it works slowly, then this budget can be a more book-keeping document, not a document that actually gives perspective, a strategy and also a policy on how to achieve this strategy or those objectives in that country. So from this point of view, look, this government, whatever it is, works by inertia -- here I think, whether it's a majority or a minority, it doesn't matter. It totally doesn't matter. The emphasis placed on investment and improving competitiveness is extremely low to give little emphasis to European spending, where we have more than 2 billion resources waiting for us to pick them up in Brussels. This shows the focus of the budget exclusively on current spending, which we simply cannot say is sustainable in any country without adequate and investment projects or that it is simply perspective for young or old. Even worse, when spending a budget, this is said to the budget, where there will be 2 billion and a half more revenue in relation to the last five years, simply blames in some way – at least in some positions this was the case, even in the position of the List of Marjan Šarc – to blame the fiscal rule. This fiscal rule should also be exempted from the full macroeconomic framework. Why? Because we have 32 billion debt and because we still pay 750 million or 800 million interest a year. We've had them since before, because we agree. I'm not going after the years that this debt actually came into existence. Statistics on this exist, but this debt is simply to be recovered, if not, we will pay 800 million. It is also true that we have already paid more than 800 million interest, we have paid, I think, a billion 200 or a billion 300. To reduce this amount of interest, but we already have it, we already have it, it's a pretty big part of the budget, if we're looking at the budget over 10 billion. From this point of view, it is increasingly unacceptable that any government in the future would disregard the fiscal rule. It's dangerous for the country, it's dangerous to simply say, there's no more fiscal rule, let's get in charge. How else are you gonna hide something? It's an assignment. Is 800 million interest too low? This 800 million interest is paid by young people and will be paid by future generations. Instead of getting flats, they'll be paying interest. Is there less than 800 million, you want more to pay? The suspension of the fiscal rule is therefore extremely dangerous. And blaming the fiscal rule that this budget is not more investmentable is also, nicely said, confused. It is not a fiscal rule that there is no more investment, but is a reallocation of money within 10 billion and a half reasons why it is not invested as much as it should and that it is not actually made an environment where there are more private, private investments. Don't do anything in this area. You don't respect an entrepreneur. You don't respect an employee. For that you impose higher taxes on income, whatever, legal persons. You don't give him moral or any other respect if you're already imposing taxes. Don't compliment the economists on hiring so much. From this point of view, the fiscal rule — not to mention something in the area of entrepreneurship, in the area of competitiveness — would actually be dangerous for some political parties. [[…]] I think that this can only contribute to paying more for interest: instead of housing for interest. We have a certain disproportionateity, which has already been pointed out; there is a certain disproportionate mainly with regard to the cost of work and the cost of entertainment. The party in this country is cheap, given the amount of social transfers on the one hand and on the other, the minimum wage. This relationship is not healthy, it is not healthy for people to create, it is not healthy for people to be interested, motivated to create more. Here this government is making significant mistakes in this area. While we have economic growth, we have low unemployment. You can't imagine that we'll ever have unemployment. We'll never have unemployment! But I think we're pretty close to the number that can represent some sort of minimum unemployment. On the other hand, we actually have a large number of people coming to work in Slovenia. The next area is the tax area. On the one hand, we can, of course, welcome this first beginning of the reduction of labour taxation, and on the other hand, it is in fact a completely incomprehensible excise policy. The excise policy in this country, led by the Ministry of Finance – they will formally tell me, yes, together with the Ministry of Economy, because they are coordinating something together, these prices of petrol and so on, but actually managed by the Ministry of Finance – is harmful and uncompetitive. Also, excise revenue is falling, while revenue from income taxes, income, also by 6%, revenue is growing by 5.6% annually – I am mainly talking about oil excise duties. I don't know why. Why can I buy gasoline for 15, 20 cents cheaper in Austria's Koroška than in Slovenia? Why is the fuel oil there cheaper than a thousand liters for 200 euros? I don't speak from a social point of view. This has already been emphasized that people here earn less and pay more for energy. I'm saying that we're simply not competitive to pick up less than we could. But there's been a dogma here for 10 years, 15 years at the Ministry of Finance, that such a excise policy should be pursued. Literally dogma! And you can't move; you can't move, either by showing the indicators, or by showing the drop in revenue from excise duties, or by showing how much you could actually collect the excise duty if prices were competitive. Once again, we're talking about oil excises. From this point of view, some things are incomprehensible, except that it is dogma. The next question that appears here is the question of the congregations. I think a colleague from SD said that more dialogue with the municipalities is needed. Look, all three associations of congregations have supported — this is the first thing. Secondly, dialogue with the congregations takes place for decades, all the time. And the third time, I remember, maybe two years ago, three years ago, I don't know what it was like now that the congregations were set before the wall and they were told, "Take it or leave it, we'll give it to you." And now you mayors are calling for more dialogue, and they've already taken advantage of everything. This dialogue is a question; there must be two for dialogue; on the one hand, the Ministry of Finance and, on the other hand, the representatives of the municipalities must be. Another thing is, let's leave this dialogue now, I'm talking about that, according to the basic law, the municipalities own this average. Under the basic law. And we're out of a crisis! Why are you opposed to the fact that the congregations have an average of what is theirs under the basic law? Why are you against it? If we are no longer in crisis, if we have economic development, if we have more income and so on, and if we know that citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens, exercise their rights and their needs most in the municipalities! Mostly in the congregations. You know, an average citizen and a citizen doesn't have much to do with how much the foreign minister travels around the world or doesn't travel. However, it has a great deal to do with the well - arranged municipal infrastructure in the home and is being cared for by local communities and is being cared for by the congregations. But you're against it. You do not give to the congregations what is lawful to them. Of course you're making excuses to what, but now there's no more excuses, no more crisis, we're out of the crisis! From this point of view, a reallocation is necessary, as should be redistributed from the perspective of the regulation of housing issues. There's another dangerous thesis that probably can't go past like that. Now, in Slovenia, we would just suddenly give more rental apartments – not ownership apartments, but rentals. I remember times when a lot of people praised him for telling us how many percent we have in Slovenia of our own apartments. I think this is almost the largest in the world – 85 percent and more. In Britain, however, about the same percentage of tenants, tenants, and landlords live on rent. I hope this does not mean actually jumping into another phase, into some new privatisation and so on, backed up by a property tax that would create some layer of landlords in the country. I'd be pretty careful with that. I am not against the Housing Fund, that the Housing Fund will have so many and so many apartments and so on, but the question is, of course, whether the tenants will actually become owners or whether they will own a third party. I do not support this budget from the perspective of this budget, from the perspective of people who do not actually have this perspective, and from the perspective of this budget, from the perspective of this budget, from the perspective of people who do not actually have this perspective, and from the fact that it is not actually designed to benefit people more, but, above all, it is intended for general inefficient spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, and Mr Boris Doblekar is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. To make the budget easier for citizens and citizens, we can also compare the budget somehow with the film about the Slovenian route next year or the next two years. Somehow here you can see where Slovenia is going. Given what we have in this budget, we can say that there is nothing very good in this country for individual groups and that the scenario that could be very positive is somehow black and absolutely no encouragement for important two groups of citizens and citizens in this country. And a few more later. The fact is that the budget drawn up by the minority government shows confusion and uncoordinated rowing. This is because the minority government must first ensure its own interests that such a budget goes through and then adopts measures that are completely ineffective and unnecessary for citizens and citizens, but are necessary for the existence of such an authority. Such confusion and disharmony in this boat speak the opposite of what we once heard from the LMŠ ambassador, how important rowing forwards is, but this boat spins around in a circle. This boat spins in a circle, slightly swinging to the left, a little swinging to the right, depending on the required number of votes. What it takes to really do something for citizens and citizens is somehow pushed into another class or second-class. In my views, I heard — I think it was most exposed to the position of the List of Marjan Šarc — that the problem is a fiscal rule. But here is confirmed that my statement I made at last year's rebalancing of this budget that this government, this team, behaves like Emperor Caligula. For those who do not know him from history, he is known for his orgy, being known for taxing citizens and citizens to disability on one side, spending money, completely emptying cash registers, and then when he did not know what else to do or what to do when he saw that the cash register was empty, he remembered the new taxes again. Finally, the tax had to be applied to the citizens of Rome at the time in order to introduce a tax on marriage. Why am I saying this? Because the very fiscal rule is what hits you on the toes, so you don't spend too much and lose what's left, you'd end the fiscal rule with one of the richest budgets in this country to spend even more. In doing so, the budget ahead of us is completely without real priorities and is not focused on two important groups in particular. I've talked about this in the introductions, and I'm going to explain a little bit more now. They're young. We keep talking about how important it is for young people to stay in Slovenia, how important it is for them to stay in this country, to successfully complete the education system and then offer their knowledge to the Slovenian market. However, it appears to us that today, not only do studies end in Slovenia, many studies no longer end in Slovenia, because some of the conditions for studying in Slovenia are already impossible, the registration conditions are incredibly stupid, young people with good success do not come to some colleges because we have such stupid, respected, registration conditions. On the other hand, that's exactly the frame we're missing. So that's the first problem for young people. Then they deal with how they would complete their studies and how many would fail to do so, so with the help of the whole, wider family, they would enable him to study abroad. And this young man is usually lost for this country. Secondly, if he finishes his studies here or abroad and returns to Slovenia, he has no real conditions to live a life that would allow him to live, because housing policy in that country is catastrophic. Your budget only indicates that it will be exactly the same for the next two years – catastrophic, no improvement. While the banks have made clear and strengthened certain conditions, even a lunch with the President of the Government has not helped you to somehow understand that something has to be done. You'd only be making a marriage for a year. In one year, it could cost you an apartment. That is why we have also tabled a concrete amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party for the construction of non-profit dwellings that would allow access to young people's dwellings. With this we want to correct your stupidity, but given that you are cemented because of your minority government, you probably will not support such an amendment. But you know, it's a shame to talk here, it's a shame to meet young people and promise them something that doesn't appear to be in the budgets at all. The $3.7 million, which is intended for some sort of housing problem – just make fun of yourself. That is why in the Slovenian Democratic Party we have prepared a real amendment, where we would spend 150 million for young people's housing, non-profit housing, where young people could start their journey. It's the first group. The other group are pensioners. I remember the confrontations before the national elections. Not that there was one confrontation where we did not say much about how important our elderly group was, our pensioners, who gave their lives to this country, paid regular taxes and, of course, live poorly today. That's what we've been listening to all the time. What about when we need to act? Where are your measures for the elderly? Where are your measures to build new homes for the elderly? Where are your intergenerational assistance measures? They're gone! With the richest budget, you simply forget the urgent things that are necessary in the country. At the time of the budget's rebalancing, I made an amendment to somehow raise funds and there would be no home for the elderly. These were, of course, the improvisations. These reminders then followed, and many today do not know how to pay for their care, on the other hand they fear losing their place in nursing homes, for on the other hand the waiting species are immeasurable. Many have been working in the middle of the day on where they will survive their old age, for this government gives only one uncertainty. They are already discussing how to save money, where they will be able to land, when the time is right for them to be retired, and they will no longer be able to care for themselves, and they will need places in nursing homes. This is a sad image of Slovenia and this is a film about Slovenia for the next two years. This is a film you're making and you've decided to make a black screenplay, even though you have the richest budget. On the other hand, let me say something else about Slovenian municipalities; the municipalities that are the most often those developmental drive of this country. Many municipalities with their own resources create much more than the state would if it had these funds. The municipalities should in some way be an example to the government of how a congregation is run and how the country should be run. Now you do not want to give the average to these congregations as much as the law requires, but with new and new excuses you are looking for a way to make this average lower. But look. The average is lower; on the other hand, you no longer provide public services. All public services. At times, there was a condition that the municipality had to have its own mail if it wanted to become a municipality, but today there are many Slovenian municipalities without postal services. This is the country's fault, because we are talking about a state-owned company and a state-owned company has decided on a postal policy. And that, Your Honor, is something that is unacceptable. That today citizens, older people, must walk 20 kilometers away to get to the first mailbox; and you intend to do so in the future. No one can stop it, but it could be because it's a state-owned company. On the other hand, we are always filled with the mouth of social policy, but what if we go to the wrong places. It is very important for me to encourage work and not to encourage or tolerate work. Of course, we have people in this country who can't work because they've lost their health. These, for example, are disabled pensioners. You're practically forgetting them. The strom machine, the machine system, you always vote against the measures that would improve their lives. You don't care about that. On the other hand, it is encouraged to work where someone can work. And what else am I worried about? Figures that there are quite a few state-owned companies that pay minimum wages or assess jobs that do not reach minimum wage and then require an additional one. When I asked the Government about the parliamentary question a while ago, how many of these companies are there to see how they operate, they say they don't have this information at all. You know, something good can be done here for citizens to review also state-owned companies and determine how many there are that do not pay a minimum wage or then pay it with an extra. They say they estimate jobs below minimum wage. Of course, you joyfully raise the minimum wage, but you do not deal with how many companies do not even pay it and then this formal allowance is needed. Is that right? The formal allowance is necessary because the job is estimated to be lower than the minimum wage required. People sent me these lists, but you don't have that information because you don't record it. It's irrelevant to you. Drawing on European funds. And this is one of the special points of this government. You don't have a minister. Today we have even heard in one of the positions – somehow Alenka Bratušek is somehow responsible now for this ministry – that it doesn't matter if the minister isn't, because it doesn't matter because it depends on the other ministries. So, it doesn't matter who's running this boat, if they do a little water-searching on the other side, they're gonna dig something up. You don't find anything! Don't do anything! The funds remain in the European Union's account, the funds that could be spent, but do not do so. The first thing that should be of interest to the First Minister is who is leading the cohesion policy in this country, whose minister is responsible for drawing on European funds. This should be the most important minister for him. However, it is more important for the President of the Government to invite coalition partners to lunch one day before the adoption of the budget. Whoa! One wonders what the end will be of the film about Slovenia and its citizens and citizens. Under this government, Your Honor, not only will this scenario be black, but I'm afraid you're also concrete governments that will come after you, because you can never make up for the missed opportunities. I just hope that we can end this policy as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Boris Doblekar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Members, Members, part of the government that you insist on with us! Today we are discussing, as has already been said several times, and what must also be clear to all citizens and citizens, the most important documents of our country, the budget for 2020 and 2021. I think it is right that, somehow, every Member should also be defined for this budget, to say its opinion, either from the left, from the right, from the centre, from anywhere, because these are such important documents that will shape the fate of our country, of all citizens and of citizens, in particular of citizens and of citizens. We have already heard that these are the highest budgets so far, so, we have the most resources at our disposal so far, and, of course, people are also in high expectations. I've talked to a lot of people, I've been walking around the field a lot, and, of course, people are interested in this document. They want to know how they're going to live. They want to know what's going to happen in the country. Of course, they are also interested in how we have prepared this budget. The budget is prepared by the Government, the ruling coalition, the duty of the opposition, us opposition Members, and it is a matter of keeping a close eye on us, warning us, and amendments, where we believe that something should be changed, to do something different, better, according to our programme, under the programme of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is very developmental. Of course, there is a need to turn local in the debate on the budget. Each Member has been elected to a constituency or electoral unit and knows the most. Of course, these examples, usually cited, are reflected throughout the country. These examples, how not good, how good it would be to improve, fix, change, can be painted across the country from the local area where the Member of Parliament lives. Therefore, it is also appropriate to mention such cases. My modest opinion in this budget is purely basic, that too much money is allocated to soft projects; for migrants, illegals, their supply, for part of NGOs – so that there will be no mistake, I have nothing against NGOs – but, a lot of money is involved in NGOs. Here I wonder what the added value of certain non-governmental organisations, which usually cause, more than not, a lot of problems both to the State and to the local community and so on. It may also be necessary to overwind here once and for those NGOs, for example firefighters and so on, to allocate substantial resources compared to some organisations that grow like mushrooms in the rain, for which I wonder what their added value is. Too much money is also involved in various studies, research, projects that never come to life. There's a lot of money running for it, and in the end, we don't really have much or nothing. We also know that in the past, money has leaked to an unknown place or known place. Billions of euros. Billions of euros also went to the bank hole because this money was given to the citizens to cover irregularities and unconventional things that should be condemned, investigated, and persecuted at any time, but that is much, much less done. There's a bunch of straw companies, a bunch of some mailboxes, a bunch of some weird, suspicious money transactions, money laundering, credit cuts, and so on. We all know that, citizens and citizens are faced with it, but not much can be done here. What is quickly punished by a citizen or a citizen who owes a few euros does not punish or prosecute people who have been repaid with millions of debts. It is true that we are solidarity in our country, that we have a solidarity system. However, to have such a solidarity system and to maintain it, it is only through reliable collection of taxes, contributions, income, fees and so on; in short, a bunch of instruments to collect money from citizens. Of course, citizens rightly expect that then these funds, which are collected, will also be properly allocated, used to go the means for a better life, a better life, for their benefit. And that's exactly what these two budgets are for 2020 and 2021. As most of you have already pointed out, and probably in the next debate you will, and we all have the same opinion on the demographic fund, I would have touched it myself. The demographic fund, the long-term care, the care of the elderly, there is little for all of this. We know that in the last ten years, no home has been built for the elderly, and that in the future some substantial resources have not been allocated for what is very, very bad. While concessions are being granted, we are causing more expensive long-term care with this elder. As I have discussed the question at the meeting yesterday, I will say again - let it no longer be the case that the congregation that feels the need to build a home for older citizens, for a protection work centre - is said to be the disabled - alone in such a construction and does not receive assistance from the state. That's literally, I can say, a crime. This also happened in the municipality of Lithium, where we expected 7 million euros, and we did not get a cent, not for a home for the older citizens, who is one of the most modern, beautiful in Slovenia, neither for equipment, nor for a protection centre, nor for protected dwellings that we built 17. So the congregation took care of itself, without the help of the State, which is the task of the State, we had to make sure that we built it, that we filled our homes and apartments — 92 beds, people being well provided — and there was no help from the State! If such a system is envisaged for the future, we can only be afraid. In my opinion, much too little money is allocated to sports as well. This is some activity, or industry, that cheers people up, that keeps them healthy, vital. I think we should think a little bit more about this country and spend more money on sports. The majority share for sport, especially for societies, clubs and so on, is dedicated to municipalities; again, municipalities that are very disadvantaged many times or every time or every time because of their over-average, because of their under-budgeting, they cannot spend more money on sport than they could. Each congregation, however, does its best to help the sport as much as it can. Schools, kindergartens, we warned you earlier in the debates, in coordination, in the presentation of the budget, that we should spend too little money on the construction of schools and kindergartens, 5 million on schools or kindergartens – it is like a drop into the sea. I will give the case again, but of course we all expect help, in Hotič 121 years old branch school is falling apart, it is wet, it is scattered. Children go to school elsewhere, school will soon be empty, instead of being there. The school is urgently needed, and we know exactly that we do not rely on any resources from the country. Also for kindergartens – 5 million for the whole country. Only in Lithuania and in Šmartno should new kindergartens be built – that is 5 million. Two kindergartens, about 5 million estimated value; we will probably get nothing from the country, but if we try to crack something, it might be some euro, but we really can't help ourselves with that much. Thus, once again, I would call for more money to be given to the municipalities mainly through the average, so that more development resources, the urgently needed resources, can also be allocated to such investments as schools, kindergartens, sports halls and so on. As regards the absorption of European funds, the budget itself, the government's own development and cohesion service and so on, I do not think it is worth losing words after all that we have already experienced, that ministers in charge of this area are regularly changing, that we are still very poor at pumping, that we are on the tail of European countries after European funds have been drawn. I must say that there is also very bad cooperation, although it has been promised that it will be better for the Government's Development Service and European cohesion policy with the municipalities, with local communities. Some congregations, if you look at the statistics, will see that they have been very successful, others less, some nothing; some are abusing, for other congregations, especially the city’s, such calls are prepared so that it is not a problem to get a lot of money. However, there is a lack of resistance, insufficient assistance, insufficient advice from the Government's Development Service and European Cohesion Policy on how to apply, what projects such as people should participate, exchange experiences, examples of good practices and so on. It's missing, and I miss it. Of course, we always talk about agriculture, rural development. I must also remind you about agriculture, as far as incentives and measures are concerned – too little. We know that this is a sector that feeds us, which, in fact, as a cultural heritage, also cares that Slovenia will even exist. We have a lot of land to process, and then we have to help these people, because these people who are trying on Slovenian land -- especially small farmers, farmers on hill farms -- have to go to work, work somewhere to keep this farm going, which is embarrassing. There is also a lot of infrastructure around the countryside, and there is still no water supply, no roads, and there is still a lot of internet. When we talk about how the country might also be able to help congregations that are large on the surface, which have many roads to modernize. We must be aware that today is such a time that we are all mobile, we all have cars — as well as bicycles and skiers and so on. How are you going to get through the macadamia, drive through the dirt roads with an electric skier or a bike? You're gonna break it all. It's clear to everyone. And when we say that the country would jump to help, we immediately run into a barrier, yes, and the country cannot co-finance local roads and so on. Then let us give at least greater averages to the congregations, and then the congregations will tarnish these roads themselves. It's not just asphalt and a nice road, a smooth asphalt and so on. Here's road safety. We know that there are many accidents, many other accidents involving poor infrastructure across the country if I limit myself to local areas. And to help the country here — no! At least by raising the average, it would be a lot easier! If I touch flood areas, here too is already the very Minister of Environment and Space Zajc at the very beginning, when it even began to talk about the budget, that there will be fewer resources, and on the one hand we are talking about, and it is precisely who then decided that there will be fewer funds for flood zones, for flood protection, for recovery, you are talking about mega-Roman climate change, that it will just be the end of the world. [[…]] It's true, they're storms, they're rains, the weather is changing, but even in my youth it was very similar, but there was no Facebook, and there was no internet, and so on, so that people could get there so quickly, and every storm appears at any moment, every second. But to get to the point. Flood protection is the most important thing for those who live or live by the rivers, along streams that turn into storms. I don't know why it's necessary to give the country money to deal with these consequences if there could be a lot more to prevent and there would be no consequences like that. This should be reasonable and clear for everyone, but apparently some do not. Of course, then it is also necessary to wait months, even years, for recovery to take place after great damage occurs. We waited a year and a half at the Tolstoy Summit on Watches, almost two — from the state nothing. Hydro-engineers, concessionaires, states, ministries, inspectors, that's what they say to each other. The solution in hand — the congregation, the municipality takes the machines and repairs; eliminates the consequences and the matter is settled. Sad, very sad. By having great power and hand over all the watercourses: streams, rivers, coastal belts, and so on, but by letting someone do something on their own or the congregation, people living there — of course, they must not do that. However, we can expect less from the country than we have expected so far, because there is, unfortunately, less funding available for this. I think it's right to point that out. But I also know that the more we warn, the more we say it, the sooner someone gets caught. That is a fact and something will have to change sooner or later. Degraded areas - something has finally begun to work on this. Already in the election of First Minister Lebn, when I was also asking Members' questions on this subject and repeating them over and over again, and also some other Members coming from areas where you have such problems, the Minister has somehow fallen apart and some of the measures have begun to move and things are moving, which is also right. But you could still say that too little. Of course, money is not unlimited to talk now, but now all of a sudden we can do everything we've done all the years, 50, 60, 70 years in the former system, undemocratic, where we didn't care about nature, an environment where everyone could work like a bitch with whatever they wanted. Of course, we have done so much damage to nature that we will not repair it in years, decades, or even centuries. Not to mention the consequences that are lasting when the environment has been poisoned for decades or centuries to come. I can express my satisfaction that the budget for the project of the rehabilitation of the Rakovnik landfill in the municipality of Šmartno pri Lithija has the resources to ensure that the Minister has heard that he also has the current one. I hope that this will be upgraded, not stagnated, and that the rehabilitation of this degraded area will now be envisaged – this year 90, the second year 100 000 and then a million – only a contribution. But I think it will still be too small to close it any way, so that we will no longer pollute the environment, the environment, the people, the nature, so that maybe once again some money from Europe will be found if Europe has more hearing for it. At least that's how it was promised that once it would be loaded and taken to the incinerator and that nature would be there again as it was. Once there were castle gardens where gentlemen were, or farmers, or servants walked: nature unspoiled, streams clean, inside fish and so on. Let's finally clean this up for good. The housing scheme, the young, the families, the guarantee scheme is a lot of speech, but the mouth is full of us, how we're going to build apartments for young people, but there's still not enough hearing for that. [[…]] In particular, young families need some angles to find out. We want to leave home a lot of times, but they don't have anywhere to go. Well, some are better placed – they pay rent. Some also use parental help to build houses, but in general there is little in this area and there is no hope of any improvement with this budget. We have also drawn up a guarantee scheme in the Slovenian Democratic Party because we know that the problem is because of Banka Slovenije, which is somehow impossible with its actions, especially for young people who are most needed to take more credits to buy apartments or houses and, on the other hand, they can pay rent with just the kind of meal that they could pay off the loan. So there's nothing to worry about, and there's no problem here, is there? They can pay rent when they can pay off their meals with that money and eventually get to their property when they're in their middle years to be on their own. Here, if something is not quickly done, done, or copied, as something like this often likes to copy something good from us to get this guarantee scheme to life as soon as possible. Let's make sure the young don't go abroad! We know that they leave enormously, and many of them never return. Of course, they go to a better place, they go to a better life, they have better conditions there, they have better wages, better housing conditions, a more friendly environment and so on, although many times someone opposes someone going to a better place, they say, or the media is writing, yes, see how much housing there is in Vienna, how much is in Salzburg, how much is in Munich, and look at the prices in the shops and so on. But you know, young people don't take on these tricks and just act, as they would call it, commercially, humanly, naturally and simply go on to better living conditions. They are leaving Slovenia, which is very sad for me, and probably for someone else to take concrete, tangible measures, even through budgets, and to say, at night on Odessa, on TV: "Dear young people, now we have done so. We hope that you will no longer go abroad in such a number."But this is very little to hear and unfortunately the situation remains as it is; people, young people, are leaving. If I touch the railroad. Yeah, some of the tracks are being renewed, mainly against Styrian. We have also tabled an amendment to the restoration of the mountain line from Kranj to Jesenic, which is in a catastrophic state, in a very poor condition; we know how old it is, how old there were investments. I will say again, although we confirmed the amendment for 2020 on the Committee on Finance, 60 million, 65 million for 2021, unfortunately not. And once again, if we are not so smart – I hope you will find these funds somewhere, you promise already that you will, even though this amendment will not be confirmed here on the plenary to go into the reconstruction of the mountain line. Not only is the mountain line necessary for reconstruction, because the valley is also very bad, but the road to Kamnik is also bad, but once there was a road to Vrhnika, which is no longer, which is very sad; it was in Planico, and it is no longer there. We worked with it — yes, not to talk! And when the caravan tunnel is being renovated in early 2021 at the end of 2020, it is called a pipe, then it is an ideal opportunity to rebuild the mountain line. It's an ideal opportunity. Mayors As the route will be closed, freight traffic will go along the road, and passengers can take alternative bus transport from Kranj to Jesenic, there will be no anger because they will know that they will get a better route, including greater safety along the route, as far as crossings are concerned, overpasses fall apart along the track and so on. For all the infrastructure entrusted to the local community along the railway line, the mayors of all the municipalities of Gorenje have gathered and signed a letter, a request, a letter of intent, a request for assistance from the State, and we will spend our money in municipal budgets, as well. [[…]] Papers, projects are ready, projects to be implemented and so on. The infrastructure of Slovenian Railways also unknowingly wants to rebuild this track and I think it is true that it would not happen by accident that in the six months when the tunnel is being renovated, we would take advantage of this opportunity and restore the mountain line, because otherwise it will never be. I'm a hundred percent. In fact, there will be major accidents when the rails break when many things can happen. I think it would be a really good time to do so during that period of closure. As far as the railways are concerned, that's all. New trains are coming, Stadler's this time, also two-story, which is commendable, but since we are always talking about ecology, sustainability, mobility, carbon-free society, we are still underinvesting in the railway. I was also in the New Town in the autumn forum a few days ago. We talked about the railway, and cooperation with Croatia – full of good, beautiful words, encouraging, including representatives of the ministry were down, representatives of railways and so on. Yes, we dream of something nice if we come from Ljubljana to Karlovac sooner than in four hours on the lower side. If we don't invest any more money in this railroad, we can only talk to people, but it won't work. That's all there is to it at the train station. I have already mentioned this, and I will do it again: the country is concerned about passenger transport subsidies on Slovenian railways. The cargo works are excellent, so it has profit, passenger traffic is subsidised by some means, I think about 60 million a year, and passenger transport of Slovenian railways has insufficient resources, and not enough money to take care of its historical value in particular, for something that has brought us development in Slovenia. We know that wherever the train was then, wherever the track was made, cities were built, factories were built, people were moving in, life began. And the museum train, the steam train on the Slovenian Railways is failing, with the means they have, they are trying and worrying about it, but it has to be said that the second year after the reliable data I obtained, the museum train in the form it was, that is, our heritage, will no longer be. All three museum locomotives that have been renovated fall into revision, there is no money to rebuild them, and the wagons are weak, about half of them are still driving. They are also trying to pull these museum wagons on the railway to sell their destination to a museum train. Foreigners are driving, people are interested, kids, now they're coming, Santa, these trains were full of kids. In short, if there are no more resources to help the country to do what it is, I think it is the duty of the State to maintain such an inheritance, but it will all go to waste, and that makes me very sad. As far as road infrastructure is concerned, I mentioned earlier – local roads, state roads – it is only necessary to say that something has happened somewhere, and it will also be done; but the trend of modifications, modernisations, renovations, construction of railways, all these major third development axis projects, and from Zasavje to Dolenjska, is too slow in terms of the needs they are. In view of the development of the automotive industry, modern buses, the need to ride bicycles – electric bicycles, electric motors, bicycles – if we want to, walk and so on. In view of all that we are constantly talking about – a carbon-free society and sustainable mobility – we are producing integrated transport strategies – this trend towards improving road infrastructure is very slow. We need to be aware of this, and I do not know when time will be taken, given that we have neglected this area for decades. It's too slow. Very slowly, there are too many bureaucratic obstacles, too many problems, too long waiting for different permits, from water consents to environmental ones. I don't know if any bonds are being made in Hotic near Lithuania, another case from the local community, in which we ask, let's do this one more time, because it's so dangerous to drive. If this is done for 15 years, only the papers are squandered – yes, God have mercy! In the meantime, quite a few other things happened that came along a lot later and were all arranged quickly. Here, I think we should hurry a little. As far as the public sector is concerned. For the public sector, there is always enough money, more and more employees, wages go up, and little or no work is done for pensioners, disabled persons, war veterans, and we go up there for one euro, two, three or two years six euros, and so on. Shameful. Shameful! We have previously heard very much about the pension and health registers of our colleague Pavšić, who explained everything in very detail, so that everyone could fully understand how these things are going on in these cash registers. With this budget, I can also say that there is a lack of coherent development, particularly the harmonious development of the countryside itself. It is still true that we do not have any provinces, and I hope that this will happen as soon as possible, especially in terms of coherent development. Especially from that point of view. I'm not going to touch the landscapes where someone fits, but we're going to make these landscapes so that they're essential, for the development of regions, for the development of landscapes, that development will be more consistent, that where there's a need, there's more money, where everything is already more developed, and much less; but not that we have Slovenia divided east and west, but we know how much trouble we have in terms of how much of what is the area where it is developed. God does not allow much further discussion to be made about the fiscal rule concerning the reshaping of this fiscal rule, which, in my opinion and also in the opinion of the Slovenian Democratic Party, is right that we have a guardian, some barrier that we will not go through again, something that we cannot. That seems very important to me, so I don't think there's a lot of words to lose. That's it. The priorities should certainly be, even through calls, including through the assistance of the state, to do what is most necessary, and then we will go to things that are not so necessary. If we've got asphalt somewhere, and we've got macadam somewhere, let's asphalt first, and then we'll rebuild asphalt, not that we're doing the opposite. It's the same with the plumbing, the same with the electricity. It still happens that some families, as we have recently read, do not have an electrical connection, do not have electricity, and people collect money there to pay the electric distributor to get the network there. I don't think that goes anywhere in 2019. For such things, even for that farm Mahlin in Dragovskeh or Širmanski Hrib near Lithuania – 50,000 farms are where people want to come back to the farms to work, land to work and work with their own hands, and there are certain farms that do not have electricity, because people then went too soon because of the stupid system to the valley, and now there needs to be electricity drawn there. They can't afford it themselves, and I think the country should be very helpful here; let's put electricity in the houses first, and then we'll go on with a variety of digitisations, etc. First we do the basics, the plumbing, the electricity, the asphalt, and so on, and then we'll fantasize how we don't know what we're doing. The priorities are very important, let's listen to people or to areas, to local communities. Where there are no basic conditions for life, let's fake it there first, and then we'll build it elsewhere. This seems very important to me, and the budget should be so focused and made, and then maybe we or I wouldn't be here to draw attention to these things. In this way, I would round up my debate, my opinion, my view on this budget somehow. I hope that someone will be caught up in this guidance maybe next year, if this budget is approved, in the balance, if necessary, taking into account my modest recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Andre Zabret has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! We see things very differently in Parliament, which is, of course, right. Nevertheless, I will try to present my view of the budget with a slightly more positive side. As I have already said on the Committee on Finance, the budget is not only an accounting document but also a mirror to the country in terms of its economic policies and priorities. The budgets are social, social and development-oriented and follow three key guidelines. We are reaching a nominal surplus in public finances and after many years of having a minus in cash registers, we have finally a positive balance and continue with the fiscal consolidation. We are reducing public debt and Slovenia is the second country in Europe that is the most successful and the fastest to reduce public debt, which means that we are less indebted and create more. We are ensuring the medium-term balance of public finances and, last but not least, budgets are in line with the fiscal rule, which is also confirmed by the Fiscal Council. Given that there is talk and there is evidence that the budget is not socially oriented; we are earmarking €1.2 billion for social security in the 2020 budget. Where's that money going? Here I have a list and I will take my time and I will read only a few social transfers and I think almost every citizen can be found in some social transfer. These are also: child allowance, cash social assistance, exceptional cash social assistance, funeral, post-mortem, state scholarship, right to payment of contribution to compulsory health insurance, right to cover the difference to full value of health care, reduced pay of kindergarten, subsidy of lunch for pupils, subsidy of lunch for pupils, grant of lunch for pupils, free legal assistance, exemption of RTV contribution, blame for large families, protective allowance, subsidy of rent, allowance for large families, regardless of the material situation of the family, where there is no price, assistance at the birth of the child, regardless of the material situation of the family, parental allowance, including in relation to the material situation of the family, maternity, paternity and parental allowance, payment of the contribution to social security from the minimum wage, in the case of four or more children, regardless of the physical status of the family, regardless of the parent, regardless of the motor vehicle, of the material position of the family, of the family, irrespective of the reduced, of the family status of the family, of at least of the three-years, of the duty. It is only one part of social transfers and other rights that we do not list everyone else and whether our country or our budget is socially oriented or not. The amount of 1.2 billion represents 12 per cent of the budget and this is not a small amount, but it is true that it is necessary to ask whether they are distributed fairly. And the fact that we have more and more social transfers in record employment is likely to indicate that there are anomalies in the system. Therefore, I do not really understand certain partners, particularly in the coalition, to oppose certain measures that would eliminate these measures or irregularities. I think that work in Slovenia has to be paid and the first step in doing so has already been taken by the Government to raise the minimum wage and also to reduce the tax burden of work with the income scale alone and also by unloading the regression. We also allocate 339 million in the budget for science, which is significantly more than in the past years, and we focus money on public research institutions, training and the development of scientific personnel and research equipment. Promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness and promoting technological development, promoting investment and the development of tourism are very important themes. For this we are earmarking 193 million and thus want to increase the added value and competitiveness of businesses. We also devote 198 million to the development of quality and affordable health care, prevention, improvement of health care, and the success of the health system, in addition to contributing 3.3 billion euros to the health treasury. We spend €1.9 billion on education and sport, which means 18% of all budget resources and thus provide quality education and education. 11% of the budget, which amounts to 1.1 billion euros, is devoted to investments and more than half of these funds are devoted to financing rail and road transport and their infrastructure. Finally, for pensions of more than 600 000 pensioners, we spend around €5 billion per year, with the state budget spending just under a billion, and for 2020 it is envisaged to coordinate pensions and also to pay an annual allowance of €145 million. We probably all agree that we will never have a budget that everyone would be satisfied with, but I believe that, in the options provided for the supplementary draft budget, they are prepared optimally and take into account the effects of certain laws that have not been taken into account in the original proposals, as they have not been adopted yet. The warnings of the Fiscal Council shall also be taken into account when taking into account the financial impact of tax changes. Subsequent funding is also provided for the construction of the western suburb of Slovenska Bistrica as well as funds to increase the number of public works programmes. Finally, I believe that we have well-complemented draft budgets, with 415 million or 0.8% of GDP surplus in 2020, as well as 656.6 million surpluses in 2021. We will reduce public debt on average by 4, by 4 and a half percent, we will ensure the medium-term balance of public finances and, on the basis of all policies defined in the budget, allow for a stable functioning. Moreover, the supplementary draft budgets are also in line with the fiscal rule. Finally, I think that, just as the family treasury is limited and it is not a bottomless bag, so is the state budget. I really don't understand some who, on the one hand, want to burden the budget with projects in certain municipalities, but then say that the budget is not developed, that it is not social, that it does not have a green breakthrough and that I don't know what else and that they won't support it. This shows responsibility, and it is necessary to know that in the minority government we now have, they also bear much greater responsibility for the opposition parties when they do not accept the budget. I'd like to respond to my colleague Shirtzl about the fiscal rule. Nobody said the fiscal rule had to be abolished. But we have said that it would be necessary or reasonable to exclude a limited disputed formula from the Fiscal Rule Act and to maintain only a substantive definition that public finances should be balanced in the medium term over the entire cycle, the business cycle. A simpler rule would be needed without the production gap methodology because it cannot be properly assessed. If I just give you a comparison. For example, the Swedish fiscal rule is much simpler and more effective, although as our rule is based on the principle of equal treatment of public finances over the entire business cycle, it does not apply the concept of a production gap. The rule is that as much as the country with budgetary deficits spent more at the time of the recession, it has to compensate with budgetary surpluses during the period of the transition. This is exactly what a fiscal rule is designed to oblige us to create surpluses in good times and create a reserve for bad times. We have also mentioned, and what is most important is that we take public investment from the fiscal rule, because this is an investment that will benefit the next generation. If we limit public investment, which is usually the easiest and fastest to cut, this would affect or affect future generations. It was therefore our view that it would be right to start talking about this and perhaps reach at least a consensus on the interpretation of the assessments of the fiscal rule in the sense that we are not applying the formulas as a point value, but that we should set an interval within which the planned public expenditure should move in the budget for the coming year. In the end, I would have responded to colleague Anjo Bah Žibert if the government had decided on a black scenario. No! No! The government did not decide on the black scenario, but decided on a bright future. And each thing always has two sides; you can look at it with positive or negative wages or, as they sometimes like to say, a glass can be half full or half empty.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. The first word is Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. To begin with, I would like to say something about what seems important to me that my Maribor will also get in this budget, and then I will respond to some other things. I must say that people in Maribor expect a great deal from this budget and also rightly so in all the things that have happened to the second largest city in recent decades, and also in view of the situation in Maribor at this time. Sometimes in Maribor we feel that we are a little forgotten from this country, and as a Mariborian Member I try not to. For the Maribor area, the 2020 and 2021 budgets provide for investments in energy efficiency, road and rail infrastructure and sustainable mobility. Above all, I am pleased that more expensive funds are allocated to the necessary energy rehabilitation of schools and pre-school facilities, as well as the fact that the University of Maribor will receive some 50 million euros more for research and development funds, which has never happened in the history of this university. I must admit, I'm very proud of that. Investments are also continuing to continue to build important railways or roads in Maribor, this is the Western Railway, Streliška, Kardeljeva, including the Proletar Brigade Road, Limbuška, Koroška road continues, the out-of-military crossing in Ljubljana is expected to open within 14 days or one month – even in this budget or in 2020 we will give some more money for this, even though the previous government started it. Ledin's underpass is about to finally settle down. These are all the things that we have been waiting for in Maribor for a very long time. They have also succeeded in the previous mandate, and the matter continues, to regulate the so-called cycling routes, and these are some projects that will also contribute to the further development of tourism in Maribor. In addition to investments of €3 million for the purchase of equipment in UKC Maribor, funds will also be provided for the relocation of the Department for Pulmonary Diseases to the city's home location. All those who have ever been to the Pohorje Pulmonary Department in Maribor, you know that this is a socialist building, 50 years old, completely, but really completely inappropriate for patients. Plus this lung section is in that building just because it's on the Pohorje, that there's a little better air than there is in the city, and that's the only plus. I am pleased that this agony with this pulmonary department will finally begin to resolve and I would like to thank the Minister here as well. There is also a public contract for the installation of a fire extinguisher and the processing of fire sectors in the UKC Maribor tower. Why am I stressing this? Because we had to evacuate people who were in the hospital 14 days ago with these bombs, and that's when it turned out — you won't believe it! - that we don't have elevators to evacuate these patients. This is not a joke, we are also solving it with this budget. There was something already said about the western outskirts of Slovenska Bistrica. The government added it. A very important investment is also due to the fact that we will maintain a very high-end export company, which works very well, which will make them one bypass where it will not be necessary to drive so many and so many trucks around the city every day. At the same time, it must also be said that Impol, the company itself, will be financed by a million euro cableways in order to be able to work in its production, which means that they have come together in public and in private; while this company is also aware that it must contribute something or give some of its own money so that it can be more effective. Of course, I very much welcome that. In addition to the budget, we also have the reconstruction of the Maribor-Sentilj railway line, which is the largest investment in history. As far as this work is concerned, 253 million euros go into this modernisation of the railway line, and I hope that these things will indeed be carried out as planned, and that we will be able to run one cycle in Maribor, which we urgently need. This is as far as Maribor is concerned, if necessary, I will say more about Maribor, because you know that I can easily say it. Nevertheless, I would like to comment on at least a little bit about my colleagues, particularly colleague Anja Bah, who was on the turn of the day. I have to admit, when I start listening to her, she has me to put a bullet in her head right now, or at least cut her wrist. I'm serious. Because when a person listens to her, he says, “What are you, crazy? And we live, I don't know where!" I mean, we're definitely living in a country where we all walk barefoot and eat with our hands. It's really scary, which I find completely irresponsible of someone who's been here for so many years. I find that horrifying. You know why? Because that's when I remember the debate I had 14 days ago with my sister, who is a teacher at one of the high schools. She and her students spent 14 days in the Erasmus Exchange in Ireland. There she accompanied these students who had practice in kindergartens because at their high school they also had this preschool program. Do you know what it's like out there? Children come to kindergarten with lunch packages if their parents give it to them. If parents don't give them lunch packages, the kids are hungry all day in kindergarten. Does this happen to us at any kindergarten? Does this happen in any of our schools? No! No! I also have to say that if my memory doesn't deceive me, my two sons in kindergartens are eating, and they're eating in schools now, because that's what the system allows them to do. In fact, it is very good, with all those diets and such and other offers that we have in our kindergartens and schools. And that's the added value of this country and that's exactly what -- because I can't buy these stories, how everything is bad, how everything is black and how horrible and how I don't know what else. In this country we also have a so-called free education, which is, of course, some of the small things that parents have to pay, but we haven't paid any tuition yet. I was educated in this same country myself, and my scarecrows didn't pay a single Euro of tuition for that. That's a big added value. When you tell your colleagues from the Balkan countries, say our former countries or someone else, they can't believe it's possible that students from Serbia can come to Slovenia without paying tuition, it's unbelievable for them. They cannot even understand that this is possible, but yes, we also have this in Slovenia – free education. I also went to college without paying my parents my tuition. Moreover, I also had student vouchers, as they do today, I also had a scholarship, I lived in a dormitory, and I am not going to start the whole debate about student homes again, and that students today, except for rare exceptions, actually have a problem with where they're going to park, not how they're going to study. If you ever have any time, drive around the dorms a little bit, and take a look at the driving park the students have today. Of course, now someone can tell me again that there's not enough student beds. True, we do not have such problems in Maribor, but they do have them in Ljubljana, and it is possible to look at history a little bit and wonder why. But let's let it stop. I cannot go beyond one quote Mrs Anja Bahova said, "this government is taking measures that are unnecessary for these citizens." Andreya's already listed them, and I've got 24 plus 11 here, and not all of them. I'm just going to remind you of the baby supplement, the maternity allowance for one year — that's a unique one! When I told my friend in The Hague that I was home for a year, and I was extended for three months because of some of my children’s problems, she said, “Well, what would I give so that we could do it?” She is a Croatian woman who lives in The Hague. She went to work three months later. You know what her biggest problem was? Where she'll put the baby. In Slovenia, we put our children in kindergartens, and in public kindergartens, which of course parents have to pay, but those who can't do so also get the right to reduced pay for kindergartens, because this country is taking care of it, and at this point also this government. I'm not talking about all lunch subsidies, and I'm not talking about lunch for the students. About all possible funerals, post-mortems, extraordinary cash social assistance, state, child allowances, social security contributions – I will not talk about this, because we have been talking a lot lately, and we will talk a lot. In short, I want to say that these are not unnecessary measures for citizens, but they are very necessary measures for citizens, and I am pleased that this government understands them and that people who for such and other reasons cannot afford many things can be given them as a society. I will not discuss the fiscal rule because it was clearly stated that the LMŠ never said that it wanted to end it, but she said that she wanted to relax it a little because we could also start investment cycles in this Slovenia, which are probably also necessary, so that we would not fall into such a recession as has already happened to us. I have another quote to quote: “This is the sad image of Slovenia. You've decided on a black screenplay." End of quote. I would only ask all of these Members who speak so negatively here today, whether they may sometimes go after Slovenia and if they go after Slovenia, but not only in Ljubljana, they may go elsewhere if they have open eyes. If they are aware that in Slovenia those who want to work can work, even today, and relatively normally live. I said "relatively normal living"; one slightly better, one little worse, because one is willing to work four hours a day, one eight and one fifteen, because we are not all the same in Slovenia and we will never, and we are also doing a little more, and some are a little less. That's the way it is. Of course, in Slovenia each has its own house, if possible it must be very large, so for three families, it is minimal; it must be owned, of course normal, which is never and under no circumstances will sell, not under any circumstances, although it cannot maintain and even live in it, because it has done so with its work. Such people in Slovenia are huge, but really huge. I know them all by myself. I am also trying to develop this debate about the fact that when older people are left alone in large houses and can no longer maintain them with their pensions, it would be reasonable to consider that these big houses are also for sale, but you know how this debate ends in Slovenia. Now the Slovenian doesn't only have a big house that can no longer support it after he retires, but he also has a big car, if possible, and he has a little better than his neighbor. One giant that costs as much as it costs. Then, of course, the problem is when you have to pay the insurance and the helmet and I don't know what else. Now I've generalized it a little bit and plasticized it, but, unfortunately, it's in Slovenia. We will also have to slowly turn this thought around in Slovenia or start to think differently. However, I very much agree with my colleagues who spoke about the need to encourage work in this country and that people should be given the opportunity to work and, at the same time, normally deserve to survive. I agree with that. But we also have a problem that we all disagree with in this house, and we have seen this recently. We also have a problem with the fact that those who can work do not work do. So we have a little bit of a different view of things here. What I am very happy about is that we have in this budget – these are investments, science, development that bring about a long-term increase in competitiveness and added value to the economy, because each successful economy is based on primary productivity and also on high added value. We'll have to do something else here. We like to compare ourselves very much with neighbouring Austria, but there are slightly different requirements and slightly different things are done. Just one case. Last time there was a whole debate about Maribor, I mean, half of Maribor was in the air because some director of a public company allowed his employees to put on an ad board, where it said that when they went for a cigarette, they had to pull a card to make it go away – that was the whole drama, wasn't it. As far as I'm concerned, that's perfectly correct. I don't smoke and I don't support it either, and I always make that very clear to my fellow smokers. I don't have a problem with smoking, but if someone smokes and goes three hours three times, four times on a cigarette, that means such productivity and productivity. What do I mean by Austria? It's normal there. It's not even a question there. You know, we have another problem in Slovenia – this is a problem of rights. We all have rights, everything belongs to me, and at the same time, we forget a little bit about the responsibilities that all belong to me and because the country has to give me. We're forgetting. I could talk about it a lot more, but I won't. In short, I am pleased that we will give more for science, I am pleased that the economy and the research sphere will become more integrated, because this is what will bring added value, because we will be able to create more in this way. Here I very much welcome this decision of the Government to give in two budgets, I think 600 million more for research. I'd finish here, and I'll get involved if I need to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Member Franz Kramar has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, the budget is a fundamental act every year for each government, for each country, and guides policy in the coming year in various areas. I won't touch everyone, but since I come from Gorenjska and several things that touch Gorenjska have been mentioned several times, I will talk about these things. First, I'd like to talk to you about the Blaze Band-Aid. The white collar has been a cancer for many years. Those who go to Bled or Bohinj in the summer have this privilege to extend your journey from one hour to two hours or more. They've been talking about this bleze for 50 years. The funds were already provided. Former Bohinian Member Urh of Desus's species has received recognition from Bled Municipality for the construction of this necklace and is not here today. That's how a lot of things have happened over the years. Recently, if you have been monitoring the media, the Blacks have prepared a press conference at which, I believe, they have been carelessly snorkeling through the competent ministry, of which the Minister is of the Party Alenka Bratušek. I have to say, I'm sorry, I actually feel a little hurt because they didn't even invite me to this press conference. When Nova Slovenije tabled an amendment to the Finance Committee, they said they had contacted all the parties except the Alenka Bratušek Party, which I belong to. I'm not gonna say I'm offended, but I'm surprised. Therefore, perhaps the appeal for the future: if we are to build this siege, then we will have to sever the ranks of all, the congregation, the state, citizens and citizens of Bled, including Bohinj and other neighbouring places, because otherwise this will not happen. Why do I keep saying that? In particular, due to the fact that the first and basic matters in this case are the consent of the owners. It should be borne in mind that 70 per cent of the consensus is being gathered at this time and that 30 per cent are still missing. The Ministry of Infrastructure is leading a decommissioning process, which I hope will help them in certain matters in the Municipality of Bled, that there will actually be a gathering of all the consents and that the beginning of the part may begin. Let me also say that it is true that it is not in the Bled development programme plan with 25 million, but I can make sure that the work will be done if these two more consents are obtained for the Betina Circle – those who do not know Bled – this rise against Bled up. There is supposed to be a growing circle for the bypass and it is expected to start working in the autumn of 2020. So next year, in autumn, funds are provided for the start of the first phase, because construction is divided into several stages. The first stage is the Betin Circle, then the route itself, and of course here is the tunnel that is planned in the project. So I can say from solid sources that if these two more consents are obtained for the betin ring, then the work in autumn 2020 will run out. Another problem that touches Gorenjska is the mountain line. We've heard about this before. I think that several proposals have already been made on this, and an amendment has even been voted on by the Committee on Finance. Here too, I should like to say that the Ministry and the competent ministers have assured that in the following year, when the work on the caravan tunnel will begin, they will also have to work on the mountain track, so that this will be assured. It is true that it is not in the NRP, but the funds are provided from other addresses, so that I calm the mayors of these municipalities that these works will be glassed in the following year. Now I would like to say, given that I have been mayor for many years, and that I know what the average in each congregation means, that of course everyone wants to raise the average indefinitely, but unfortunately, the facts are clear. The problem I see is that, while we have decided on the committee to raise the average. However, the problem is that we have adopted this within the implementing laws of the so-called ZIPRS budget and there are no such funds in the budget. This means that whoever proposed ZIPRS could know that he should also propose budgetary resources in the budget itself, because then he should also tell where he would take it from. Because if you give it away, you have to take it somewhere. There is little problem within this, because even if a higher average is voted on, it will be a problem to provide funds because there is no budget for these funds. So this is just a warning about how clearly we all want higher averages, because who doesn't! [[…]] But this seems like a technical matter to be taken into account. I'll be brief so I won't take the time to discuss it with others. I had so much to say so far. But if there's anything else, I'll call back later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! We are ahead of the most important decision in this mandate, whether we are going to make a mature examination, depends solely on our readiness. We have two choices: the adoption of state budgets for the next two years and the applicable law on their enforcement or the shift to an area of unpredictable political crisis where the cards will be very thoroughly mixed into a new one. There is no more important act or legislative proposal than the adoption and consideration of the state budget, where the policy of the current government is most clearly reflected, for the first time in Slovenian history, in the policy of the minority government. It will also be a test stone, whether the minority government can survive in our political scene. Today, from the Finance Minister, Dr Andre Bertoncl, we have heard that Slovenia has one of the best budgets among the European countries. I don't know why we wouldn't believe him. The budgets are also nominally highest in all Slovenian history, we also have a significant surplus of revenue over expenditure, and our public debt is also declining. All of this is positive. On the other hand, we have the strictest fiscal rule throughout the European Union. If this rule were to be relaxed, all the amendments adopted on the State Finance Committee and what else could be found could also be placed under the roof. For investment expenditure and transfers, we will spend two billion and 146 million euros in two years, most of which in the field of transport infrastructure, some 36%. Of course, I think we should provide more development resources for investment expenditure. For the largest projects planned, we even had to adopt a guarantee law at the October meeting of the National Assembly to build the second track of Koper-Divič and the third development axis. This may be a new step towards relaunching infrastructure investments, but this will certainly not be enough for a renewed and more tangible rise in economic growth. In my view, I have already said this at the October session, a fiscal rule will need to be relaxed and new investments will also be launched on the remaining networks of state roads and rail networks, which are among the most obsolete in the European Union. State roads and railways need better maintenance, reconstruction, modernisation and, above all, new construction. I'm just wondering how we managed to build a highway cross in the past. Of course, an ambitious programme had to be adopted first, which was the case in 1995, when the first national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia was adopted in the National Assembly. Before independence, there were 8 kilometres of highways per year built at the annual level and 33 kilometers of new highways and new fast roads were built at the annual level. This is four times more intensive construction than it was before Slovenia's independence, and with its effects it also proved to be a very large economic growth all the way back to 2009. Such an investment drive to boost economic growth would also be needed today. Following the construction of the highway cross and the collapse of major construction companies and the major economic crisis that occurred at that time, investments in state road infrastructure continued until 2015, then a slight recovery took place for several years, which also cooled down with these two budgets in this area. Let me mention only the freezing of 90 projects that were adopted by the government in early September and included in the 2019 Development Programme Plan, but are no longer found in the budgets for 2020 and 2021. I have deliberately spent a little more time in the areas of investment in infrastructure, in road and rail infrastructure, but there is nothing else in other areas. We also need some major projects here, both in the field of science and the information society, environmental protection and so on. I do not understand why our country, for example, cannot build a new national and university library or a new central theatre building. At this meeting next Tuesday we will also consider the so-called Cultural Euro Act, which will bring additional €122 million to Slovenian culture in the coming years for 7 programming sets, including the restoration of the highest quality cultural heritage and cultural monuments and investments in some of the most important public institutions in the field of culture. Of course, next year we will have to adopt a rebalancing of the state budget for 2021, which will provide funds for the implementation of the cultural euro law. If the state budget affects all areas of our lives and society as a whole, its impact on health policy is minimal. The Ministry of Health has a budget of €10 billion and €358 million for the coming year, so it belongs to the Ministry of Health of €195 million or only 1.9 per cent of the total budget. If we compare these funds with health bills, the state budget of the Ministry of Health amounts to only 6.38 per cent of the health treasury, it is said that the health treasury will turn EUR 3 000 53 million per year in 2019. The 2020 project amounts to three thousand 320 million or three billion 320 million and for 2021 to three billion EUR 516 million. The fact is, therefore, that in the field of health policy or in the field of our health or disease, if you want, all financial decisions are taken at the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and that we have a completely minimal influence on Members and Members or the National Assembly in this area. Perhaps there is a rabbit in this bush that does not happen in this area in any particular way. As we say, I will support the draft budgets for 2020 and 2021 and the draft law on their implementation, and I will also support the amendment proposed by the coalition, which will put things in its place and we will be able to implement these two budgets in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Member Monica Gregorčič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. To begin with, I should like to outline that the budget is essentially a limited bag of state money, into which we pay or contribute all citizens through taxes. From this title, we certainly have the right to claim from the State or from the government that manages and distributes this bag of money that consumption is rational. It is interesting, as they have already heard several times today, that the revenues of the budget submitted are record-breaking and the planned expenditure is also record-breaking. It is clear that the financial appetites of budget users are also record-breaking, so some critical thoughts at the outset. I am afraid that the resources or budgetary users are acting on a consistent logic, according to some inertia with logic, that every year they are seeking to increase their resources required by the budget. Some end-of-the-year even try to spend all the annual allocations, because if that were not the case, they would somehow lose the basis or the reasons why they claim the state in the following year the same or the increase in the amount of funds. This is the mode of operations of budgetary users in all past years and in all government mandates and it appears that there will be no change in this mandate as well. This is also an opportunity for our total tax money to be spent irrationally if you also want for various unnecessary advisory contracts, pear services and so on. Wills and readiness, and unfortunately for some, knowledge of internal rationalisation, but unfortunately not for any structural shifts and changes. It is true that budget expenditure or expenditure in the vast majority is already predetermined and that the ministries for project planning have very little room for manoeuvre. However, unfortunately, we are still, because of the way in which I described it a little bit earlier, even light years away from more modern budgetary approaches, i.e. from the design of the programme budget. However, many words were already addressed in previous discussions, whether our fiscal rule is right or too strict and should be relaxed. I am also assessing this draft budget ahead of us from the point of view of the Fiscal Council, which, despite some general warnings on macroeconomic developments, is a fiscally coherent and sustainable proposal. This has been a key positive signal for me, and I am glad that the Minister for Finance himself feels that way, so I am much more concerned about his statements today on the possible withdrawal if this budget is not also internally coordinated. Because what happened at the recent session of the Committee on Finance? There have been some new facts, the adoption of unscheduled amendments, with very large, with significant financial implications or reallocations between individual departments. Why is fiscal rule so important? Because, even in the current situation, when the internal political situation is not very stable, when we have a minority government, and when we somehow witness the beginning of economic cooling or the decline in economic growth, it is important that this fiscal rule limits the appetites of individual parties, some who compete, who will promise certain groups or offer more so-called candy. Also, the Ministry of Finance, I am convinced that it would be very difficult to curb financial appetites if this anchor, even in the constitution, and also an implementing law written quite strictly, I agree, would not be. For, believe me, we could very quickly find ourselves in the 2009 scenario, when, if you remember, our public debt grew tremendously because of the fact that the current policy was unable to alleviate financial appetites and we were in charge of current consumption. I hope, therefore, that common sense will prevail and that the very fiscal rule has been that of the government in the past mandate, and if you criticize it as much as you do, it has enabled it to decisively map out the path of fiscal consolidation, because without it, it would not have followed so average economic growth, and also, as we have heard today, the record budget has also made this possible. I would like to take a brief look at Mr Jelinčič's position, which, in the view of the Slovenian National Party, pointed out that further increases in revenues to the budget should be made. I agree with that part of more efficient tax collection, but certainly not with higher tax obligations. Let us turn our attention to and ask ourselves, or strive to spend this money more rationally, for there are many times when spending public money on excessive and headless spending is also taking place. Let us also ask ourselves whether you are such a luxurious country, such a luxurious state apparatus in the light of the current situation, we can afford not to be indebted to future generations. Given the information that the President of the Fiscal Council stated in his media statement yesterday that this government will have more than €3 billion available from 2018 to 2021, I ask myself, or is on the ground, why these resources will not be channelled into state investment, in the second indent, the third development axis, because, as we know, these two key development projects for our future will still need a guarantee law. And, as it is said, if existing spending were to be planned more rationally, more money would remain for state investments. I would also like to refer to the adoption of an amendment to the committee regarding the upgrading of the mountain line. The financial implications or alternative resources would be burdened by investments in motorways or roads, and for this account the budget of the Ministry of Economy for key economic incentives would be reduced by 10 million and the budget of the Ministry of Defence for defence needs would be reduced by 20 million if this amendment were reconfirmed in plenary in two days. Maybe the hottest 20-million-dollar reduction in defence spending. Why? Because this would bring our country, which is a full-fledged member of NATO, back to its original reputation. In fact, to all ideological opponents that we are members of NATO, let me say that these are funds intended for our own safety, not for NATO. And Slovenia decided, 15 years ago, on the basis of the expressed referendum will of citizens, to enter this collective defence system, because the profession then confirmed this option as the most effective in terms of the financial contributions and the level of security offered by membership in this regard. Thus, these items should certainly not be affected and set out in the original draft budget correctly. Social or social policy. Slovenia is a social state, but I would like to point out that it must also be a just social state. Because it is obvious that there is an increase in social transfers funds during economic growth, conjuncture, which is not logical and indicates certain anomalies that require legal corrections. In this context, we will also decide again at this meeting in two days to abolish the work allowance. I must absolutely stress that I am advocating for a just social policy so that those who really need it, who, for any reason, cannot work for any reason, can get help. However, for everyone else, I do stress that jobs are the best social policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, chairman. This budget has several problems, and at least partly within the budgets already foreseen, we are trying to resolve these problems with our amendments in Levica. Unfortunately, despite a record bag of money in this budget, we are tracking the battles a little bit developmental. This part remains nourished, whether directly a scientific breakthrough or a development function performed by public subsystems, from health care to education. Perhaps most importantly, given that the climate crisis is on our door, there is nothing green in this budget, except those Stoevre banknotes that fell out of it because tax reform was adopted at the time of the budget in favour of the country's highest wages. On the other hand, social services remain undernourished. Of course, the lawyers of the budget, the abolition of the allowance for work activity and the fact that these anti-social measures have claimed for a long time that the budget has not been devoted to solidarity and justice as much money as it is now. But the metric that applies here is comparability; to compare ourselves with the countries we want to follow, and to compare ourselves with the real needs of Slovenian citizens and citizens. We find very quickly that the items for prosperity in this budget are nothing special; on the contrary, they are indeed undernourished. They do not cover the basic needs of Slovenian citizens and citizens, do not reach the statistical boundaries of the more developed countries to which we want to follow, but they are relentlessly repeated by budget advocates as something sacred, rather than something powerfully good. Colleagues and colleagues, these items aren't even on the limit of normal. In addition, let this budget and its priorities defend a fairly empty rhetoric about how we want to watch glasses, say – this is what we heard in the debate today; the glass is half full, the glass is half empty. The colleagues and colleagues behind this budget, your glass is broken! We're trying to patch him up in Levica, where he can be patched up. Railways, the mountain track is certainly one of the priorities we want to implement in this country, particularly in 2020 and 2021. So, in the range of years that the budget on the table covers. After all, I didn't make that up myself. This is a project covered by the resolution already in question, a project covered by all the documentation prepared, which is missing, is mainly a bag of budget money to be used. And even though everything has already been arranged, including with the congregations, the mountain line has been nothing to me, nothing from the budget has fallen out of your mind. However, quality public transport is vital to the well-being of citizens and citizens. Not only for prosperity, but also in terms of addressing climate problems, the share of emissions from road transport in us reaches 38% of all CO2 emissions: because driving on the road is wasteful, in the end it is not too comfortable for passengers, because it has to sit behind the wheel, it has to get nervous, but people simply have no alternative to us because there has been nothing invested in sustainable mobility in the past. What was money went into the roads and into the concrete. And if transport, especially passenger transport, is to be moved from road to rail, the railway must first be trained. The mountain track is definitely ripe for something like this. That is why we are making $30 million this year with our amendments, next year $40 million. The total weight of this project is estimated at EUR 113 million, which is VAT-free, but only an update. This is an update of the track that was built during the Austrian Emperor Franz Joseph 130 years ago. The speed of trains on this track is limited to 50 kilometers per hour. Not that for some very objective reason I could not drive faster, but simply because this track is so long. Signalling devices are 40 years old. The emergency tracks, which are intended to ensure the flow of the track, are too short and do not actually perform their function. Since the modernisation of this route has been agreed, some municipalities have already reserved extra funds in their budgets to finance access to out-of-line and line facilities. In view of what the modernisation of the mountain line would bring, it is absolutely unacceptable that it has fallen out of the budget, and I repeat again, from an environmental point of view. The only thing that can be done in the field of transport is to transfer daily logistics from concrete to rail. And if the ride is appropriate, if the ride is comfortable, if the trains are fast and they're not late, people will follow. This has still proved to be the case everywhere. In general, the budget has quite a few surpluses. This surplus is due to a wrong policy that needs to be squandered, squandered, constantly squandered. It is the result of a policy which the country sees as a household; but the country is not a household. If anything, in the times of fat cows he must invest, invest in the well-being of citizens and citizens, invest in development. The railway is certainly one of such projects worth investing in and becoming a social priority. I did not go to the last election under the motto Left for the exact train because we barely catch any train that is correct and which brings you from point A to point B without any complications. Another policy that needs attention, and much more attention than we find in this budget, which is only symbolic, is housing policy. We're running out of at least 10,000 apartments. Rent prices are rising in the sky. In Ljubljana, Airbnb broke up, people leaving the city centre because it's becoming too expensive for them. This is a process called gentrification, and you know what there is absolutely nothing good about this process. That is why we are earmarking an additional €20 million for housing policy in Levica in 2020. Another area that does not reach the standard to be able to call itself a social state is the area of scholarship. If we take into our hands the last Eurostudent study, there we find that, say, the grantee or student generally needs to survive, about normally, over a month, 250 euros. What's the state's highest scholarship? A few 10 euros below this threshold is 190 euros. And I wouldn't even be asking too much about where there's hidden rent in this amount, because a lot of students are reaching out to private people because they just don't have any other choice. And the prices, as I said before, are rising in the sky. There are 40,000 students in Ljubljana, and 7,000 beds are reserved for them in the dormitory. In Maribor, the painting is slightly better, but it is still for 13,000 students who study there, 2 000 500 beds. That is why we also allocate an additional €2.5 million to this area in Levica. Next, senior citizens' homes. This topic has a longer beard in our policies since we entered the National Assembly, in the political priorities that we can reach as part of a safe age. We've followed them before, and we've tried to put them into action. Over the next year, we anticipate that 25 million euros would be spent on building new homes for the elderly because the current budget line, as far as it is now, is barely enough to build one single home, and we will not really see that because the existing capacities are such that they need adaptations. Not only are there at least 10,000 apartments in general missing 10,000 beds in the homes of older citizens. And in a billion-dollar budget, you say, to a record budget that totals 10 billion and a few hundred million, you will find what percentage of the budget you make for a safe age? Hardly worth mentioning. On the other hand, if we look at the budget lines for NATO, where not only is the roofing macro policy flawed, when it should be invested and thus prepared for some bad times; even within this framework, money is spent on nonsense, for future old iron, for armored men, designed to drive across Afghanistan. Tell me, which old man waiting for bed at the home of elderly citizens, these armored men help to reach a safe age. The political priorities reflected in this budget are completely flawed. We strongly oppose him in the Left. The opportunity is excellent to take a step forward, to start bridging the development backlog that we have, to tackle the social injustices that the vast majority of citizens and citizens are ruling, and to take the first steps, I say - the first steps because there were no previous steps, in the direction of green transformation, of green policy, which addresses the climate crisis and climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. It is clear that the growth in revenue in the budget reflects growth in the economy, economic performance, growth in gross social product, growth in value added and reduction of unemployment, or an increase in the number of employees from which contributions and taxes are then paid. In 2018, the budget was 10 billion. For 2021, more than 11 billion are already envisaged, which means an 11% increase in three years. On the expenditure side, we will achieve a 8.6% increase. It is clear from this that the surplus will then increase, which will be reached in 2021 at 656 million and 1.2 % respectively. And also what I have just said is the answer to where the good 2 billion have gone since 2004, which has been asked so many times in this National Assembly. I think this case is now cleared up. Out of a billion deficits, we have reached EUR 656 million in surplus and have eliminated all savings from the times of the crisis. I think that this matter is now clear and that this issue no longer needs to be asked in this national assembly for this period. At that time, as I have already said, all austerity measures have been abolished. Legal expenditure and the provision of all development areas have been provided. The recommendations of the Fiscal Council have been followed. The budget is in line with the domestic fiscal rule, which is the most stringent in the European Union family and becomes a developmental bar for us. We haven't heard that before today, and I think we're going to have to do that again. We are continuing to reduce the public debt created during untransparent management in all areas of uncontrolled consumption and the economic crisis; and this is also the crux of the present and future development today. However, this is a fact that we need to deal particularly closely with and monitor. This will follow us for years and years. The budgetary documents shall include the measures adopted for tax optimisation, which have been consistent with economic and social policy as well as economic stakeholders. It is important to reopen here today, which are the main items of increased revenue. This is mainly a revenue of 112 million for the financial year 2020, of course compared to 2019. Taxes on legal persons' incomes are increasing by 82 million and value added taxes by 204 million. These are the three main items. It is even more important where we increase the main items on the expenditure side. First of all, it has been said so many times today that there is no development, no development; for science and the information society we spend more than 57 million, for education and sport, important, 54 million, and for defence and protection – 43 million. I don't think any of us want to ask ourselves tomorrow what you were doing for security; and we probably can't guarantee security. We spend an additional 30 million on social security, transport and transport infrastructure – 25 million; of course, more everywhere, and for internal affairs and security – 16.5 million. Today, we have heard a lot of views from the rapporteurs and even more contradicting the facts of the debaters, on the one hand, of the obvious that there is no savings, and on the other hand of the obvious that there is no development. On the side of saving evidence – too much consumption, too much risk, lack of transparency; on the other hand, there is no development, too little to devote to health, pensions, investments, why we do not direct surpluses to development, to housing policy, to demographic funds. It was also said that the averages of municipalities should be substantially increased, although for the first time since the crisis, the average is placed on the calculation of the formula, as much as the formula has been passed on, is allocated to the municipality. This is the first time since the crisis. Look at the fraction, in any case we are running into a strict fiscal rule, which we are also defending with constitutional judgment, with all possible means, including by misleading the public, the National Assembly and the profession, which was heard here today. So I wonder who is confused and distracted in this rowing, as was heard from the opposition. Who emptied the cash register at 600 million? If you had taken your suggestions into account, the amendments you've been making would have really been a mess without tails and heads. Those of you who have debated in this direction today are really populism, otherwise I can't assess it, or you may never understand that you can only eat as much jam as you've prepared for the winter break. These are simple facts. You're reading to us, the List of Marjan Sarcas, that we want to break the fiscal rule, and by no means. We are working to tighten the rules on spending public spending. Wages must grow slower than economic growth. We note, however, the need to eliminate developmental components from the calculation of fiscal rules that have nothing to look for here. This is what other countries do or have already eliminated investment in development in the initial fiscal rule; and then we follow suit. The fiscal rule must ensure functionality, and we must exclude public investment in infrastructure projects, investment in research and development, advanced technology for higher productivity; that is, anything that brings direct benefits to the economy and people brings lower costs and higher competitiveness. If we want to change the speed of trains from 35 miles [35 km] to 90 miles [90 km] and the roadway, we will have to do something, or we will be left with countries, and those who invest and work in this area will begin to avoid us or are already avoiding us, looking for other ways. Otherwise, you have changed the reduction of the fiscal rule this time to cool down the economy and from this risk of lowering consumption, consumption. Then where to take for development if I come back to this. The budget documents clearly show that we are curbing consumption, as we have been achieving a steady increase in budget surpluses since 2018 and will already exceed 1%, 1.2% in 2021. This is how a good host works, which is preparing for long-term action, brought on by the problems of demographic trends and is particularly concerned with health care, life in the third development period, long-term care, housing, the necessary infrastructure projects, as we have already said. And in all these areas, work is done, but not ad hoc. You know what it means to adopt legislation three times a year. Then you'll have a headache and then we'll point our finger back at what this government has been doing. It is necessary to act with discretion. These are projects that cannot be solved overnight, but need to be solved gradually, step by step. Of course, we could be faster, at least in the field of infrastructure projects, but it is also confusing, delaying and doing unnecessary costs. We were able to implement one of the decisive measures – raising minimum wages. The economy also agrees with this measure. Why? Because he is aware that the economy lacks staff and we need to keep him at home, we are also importing him because he is not home enough. The raise of the minimum wage brings changes in many areas for the further development of Slovenia and is a mirror of where Slovenia belongs, at which stage of development we are. By raising the minimum wage, we are pursuing the goal that the person who works gets a fair salary to work for him. That way we will have higher pensions in the future, we must be aware of that. But sometimes, if we're just gonna start now, because we've paid too little attention to this earlier. This will significantly reduce social problems. We must eradicate citizens below the threshold of poverty. What is better — that we pay our employees in such a way that they can live, or that we save the lives of those who work with the taxpayer’s money? Entrepreneurship is, of course, aware that higher-class employees will have to pay more by raising the minimum wage; and some have already joined. I hope you've heard that from public information as well. Some companies have come to this because they are aware of it. Of course, we are aware that companies, activities that will be difficult to raise wages, are mainly labour intensive industries. Unfortunately, we will have to face this if we are to continue to grow with double, triple growth compared to the average of the European Union and to get close to this average as soon as possible. But this is what the developed countries of the European Union face all the time. Labour-intensive industries move to areas with lower labour force, to areas that are more tax-friendly. It is a model for these countries to develop even faster, to have even higher profits, to transfer capital through transfer prices and profits to their countries, where they then gladly pay taxes at high rates – 25, 35, even up to 40%, and to achieve an ever-increasing well-being of their countries. It is true, and this is evident from data analysis, that countries with a high level of development have a higher tax. Of course, they are extremely well controlled by taxpayers through democratic governance. Clearly, there are consequences for the perpetrators. The following data, the gross domestic product, are important in Slovenia we reach 85% on the average of the European Union. The second figure, the average wage in Slovenia reaches around 65% of the European Union average, is a large difference. Why isn't she the same? Of course, it is important to look here also at the domestic environment, comparisons across regions where differences are very large. They also have clear objectives in this area to reduce these differences. What does all this mean? Are we paying less employees in Slovenia? Also, due to poor productivity and the structure of economic activities. Example, Magna again. Magna opened a modern plant in Hotch, everything nice and good, this pool in Styria has a higher unemployment rate, but has good staff at losing many companies in the past, and this is very good. This is very good if we have not been successful with domestic capital to create new jobs. Magna in Graz pays Slovenian workers for their minimum salary, which is significantly higher than ours, and higher for those jobs in higher classes than in Slovenia. In an establishment in Slovenia, wages are lower according to Slovenian rules and productivity is certainly not lower than in Graz, perhaps even higher. Such investment, of course, brings other advantages, subsidies, incentives and reinforcements of profits and salaries in the home company, in the country of establishment of the company; and in this country there is a full state health and pension allowance. So our goal must be to support our own businesses, our own development, our own staff to a greater extent. Now you'll immediately say that we're tax-inconvenient for the country to take too much. On the contrary, if we compare all taxes, we fall under the average of the taxes collected in the European Union, so we are not exaggerating at all, as some of us are told. With some adjustments in the tax area, which we have already taken into account in the 2020-2021 budget, we will by no means discourage foreign investors. However, we will cut some additional millions into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we are to achieve the goal of the Slovenian economy, which was set in the past year to reach 60 000 additional values per employee and gross salary of more than EUR 2 000 per employee by 2025, this means more than 30% increase in five years, we will have to open companies with higher productivity, where higher wages and higher wages are achieved; of course, in competition with the common European and global markets. With these objectives, the inflows to the budget will be significantly higher, including to the health and pension allowance and to the budgets of the municipalities. And that is why, in recent years in our country, economic growth has been faster than in other countries, because we are investing more in those companies where there is a higher added value, and we have to leave those companies that we have taken by force for years and years and also resolved because of social policy, and we have also put tax money into this, we have lost with rehabilitations, forced settlement. And in the end, it all ended up in bankruptcy. It is essential that we listen and build on real foundations — prudently, transparently — and act quickly enough. I have a good feeling that in this half-second year, at least with the economy and the social partners, we have listened to and achieved a certain trust and movement. Much talk, instigation, deception with the aim of discrediting and undermining power are only obstacles to achieving this goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Member Nick Prebil has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u46	Mr. Vice President Tanko, thank you very much for your words. Colleagues and colleagues, say good-bye to everyone! First, I will start by asking what the budget is. I believe that this is the foundation of every country, every international organisation, every company, every family and every individual. The revenue of this state budget, which is ahead of you – we are now debating only 2020, we will be discussing 2021 later – is projected to be 10.82 billion and the expenditure is set at 10.35 billion euros, which is about half billion budget surplus. And I personally believe that this budget offers development and social orientation, with the government following its initial priorities, namely health, science, the economy and the defence and security system. Those who are so keen to stress in this National Assembly how the budget is unsocial and underdeveloped, whether they live in their world or do not understand the concept of social and development. More than €155 million will be used for social transfers last year. This is good, but we live in a period of conjuncture, and unemployment is relatively low, and we have significantly more people for social assistance. This is where I wonder what the problem is. The minimum wage has risen. It remained 30 % higher than the amount of monetary social assistance. The budget is socially oriented. If we continue to eliminate austerity measures in the area of family policy, the fatherly and parental compensation is once again 100%. All families receive a large family allowance after a new one. Maternal compensation is unlimited. Parenthood has increased to 2.5 times the average wage, a higher child supplement, a reduction in the price to obtain an additional scholarship. I have already stressed in my presentation that we are talking about 8,000 500 additional scholarships. Regarding developmental orientation, the budget follows development policies, focusing on these key priorities set by the government. In this general work, let me tell you where the funds are going. The most resources are allocated to education among all policies. I still believe that education is one of the most important aspects of the country. The fact that we will raise our children and our future generations is a reflection of how society will live in the future. And there goes 18% of all budget expenditure, that is, with the aim of providing accessible and quality education and education for all. And as colleague Divac Mirnik said, in Slovenia education is more or less free. In a rare European country or even across the sea, that is the case. In most cases, students and parents take huge loans so that children can get a quality education and then have a relatively good life. But they've been paying for this for quite a few years. Thus, in 2020, between all policies, compared to the rebalancing, when we look at 2019, a maximum of 17%, there is an increase in resources for science and the information society. These will amount to almost €600 million over the next two years. And after a 8.3% increase in 2019, an additional 3% increase in transport policy and transport infrastructure resources to 165 million euros compared to the rebalancing adopted. Here more than two-thirds will be devoted to financing rail transport and infrastructure, but here in one part I certainly agree with my colleagues from the Left that we have been underinvesting in the development of rail infrastructure in all these years, and I have also stressed this on committees; and that more will have to be done here. There's a lot of talk about this fiscal framework. We have accepted this and we have to stick to it, this budget is holding onto it, that's what the Fiscal Council has said. In addition, there are also legal obligations to be covered, the settlement of the commitments to be paid in 2020 and then in 2021, we need to ensure that the European Union’s resources and the corresponding Slovenian participations are adequately aligned with the current implementation plan of the OP programme for the implementation of cohesion policy and many others. And I believe that we could do more with all this in certain segments. You can always do more. I always say that if you want to, you can, you just have to show for it. But we do have a budget ahead of us that has resources that are limited. It's true they're record-breaking, they're still limited. There's as much money as there is. And if you give someone more, you have to take something from somewhere, it's a simple calculation. In all these years, independent Slovenia is always stuck in this, because desires are getting bigger than the real situation, and this has also been shown now that in the record budget the wishes were almost a billion more. Once again, 95% of the budget is almost fixed and legally defined by the legislation adopted in previous mandates and something else in this. If maybe I'll just go back to the numbers. In view of the rebalancing 2019, the 2020 budget will increase for science and the information society by €56.8 million, for education, sport – by €54.1 million, defence and protection – by €43.3 million, social security nearly €30 million, precisely – €29.8; transport and infrastructure – €25.3 million, internal affairs and security – €16.5 million. And with this budget that we have before us – and I will now only talk about 2020, which I will then divide into sectors, by the committees I cover, this is the Ministry of Home Affairs, Foreign Affairs and Public Administration – in particular, we are reducing public debt by an average of 4 to 4.5 percentage points per year. Respectable, the final goal is 60% of GDP, which is the goal of the Maastricht Treaty. And here we will become one of the few countries that is sufficient. Let me just say that our neighbour Italy owes 132.2%, Belgium 102%, France as one of the leading European countries – 98.4%. And the fact that we fall into this reduced public debt and some of the conditions that the European Union has planned is certainly a good indication to me that we are somehow on the right track. It is true that this moment saves us from favourable economic growth or offers us a good position for the budget. Last year it was 4.1%, and it feels like a little bit of cooling, even with us, which is even lower now than elsewhere in Europe. Umar also reduced this autumn forecast and responded to it by the Ministry of Finance. If I touch the Ministry of the Interior. The budget for the Ministry of the Interior in 2020 is €408.9 million, which is more than 13.2m euros in the balance. Again, there is a greater share than in all departments, for salaries, system regulation and support activities – EUR 24.4 million. Of course, there is a certain proportion of migration and international protection, which is the €3.1 million earmarked for the 2020 budget; however, a greater share goes to the police, here is the share of €380 million and there is also an increase. I certainly believe that the key is a well-equipped and well-functioning security structure of the country, if we are now with the Ministry of the Interior, it is the police. Maybe let me figure out what's going to happen here. The cost of equipment is in these increases, and this is mainly about purchasing new police uniforms, other parts that the police need. And certainly I am of the opinion, and I think that you, my fellow Members, that good police equipment is certainly crucial to the security of citizens and also to the entire national security of the Republic. And this equipment of police with personal and complementary equipment ensures a truly smooth implementation of all legal obligations that the police also have. Of course, it will also invest in the coming year, in particular I will highlight information and telecommunications equipment. Here there will be €5.8 million in data protection equipment, i.e. for a system to prevent the misuse of mobile phones, for the encryption of mobile devices, for the modernisation of computer and software equipment, for telecommunications equipment, for the provision of broadband networks and other structures for the mitigation or prevention of cyber attacks that I think are still a little bit remote; and we are not fully aware of some of the risks that today's technology poses, despite all the benefits that we have. If I jump forward to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, here is an increase of 9.4 million euros in both years, 2020 and 2021. However, it is a real promotion which will be directed primarily to the Presidency of Slovenia to the Council of the European Union in the second half of 2021, but of course we have certain things at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which are also legal matters, these are matters that we have accepted or signed with the European Union and, of course, we are obliged to carry out. If I touch the Presidency; the costs of the Presidency are set at €80 million, we will spend about 23. I think that for a successful Presidency and some example for the European Union, this is one of the biggest foreign policy events Slovenia will host, and we need to show the European Union at this point as exemplary, good and as a country that can contribute to development in Europe. And this certainly requires additional personnel, reinforced structures, adequate infrastructure. And for all of this, of course, financial resources are needed and, therefore, I certainly support such an increase. However, I might add here my personal opinion that we have been underinvesting in foreign policy for several years, including the ministers who sat in these positions, have done little for Slovenia's reputation in certain segments. However, we must certainly understand that in foreign policy, in the international environment, there is some power that you have, and this power is also linked to the resources or money you invest in your structures and thus the staff; and how many people you have distributed around the world that can help you in the reputation of the country and also in the acquisition of certain financial resources. If I am still going to the Ministry of Public Administration, which is also covered by the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government, there is also an increase of €26.2 million, totalling €140 million in 2020. Of these, 35.8 million is allocated to e-management and information infrastructure. Funds have also been proposed to cover investments in energy renovations of buildings and other sources of energy in public administration. As I said, science, the information society, here feels an increase, this is certainly good, here we have to invest and also take certain risks in the lease. As I said, certain investments will be made in the development of broadband networks at MNZ and MJU, which I personally consider to be good. However, if I did not list too many of these numbers, which I believe will be treated well for me by my colleagues, I would only return to the science and development that is considered personal, but I believe that I can also think of colleagues and colleagues as among the more important aspects in the country. The main objective of investing such resources in science and development is to make more use of the research potential that young and older researchers can give us and their mobility between the academic and entrepreneurial spheres. And this increased integration between the economy and research work is crucial, enabling development in science, culture, economy and so on. And not long ago, I was at the OECD, and I was able to talk to a scientist at the Joseph Stefan Institute. What they do at our institute is one of the very pervasive things in the field of research, including at the level of the European Union, and these structures need to be adequately assisted. So much for now, and then I'll keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Member Zvonko Blackach has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! I think that, for the second year in a row, we have one extremely rich financial framework in the form of a budget, this time for 2020, probably does not have to lose words. However, it is important to ask how much of this rich financial cake is felt by those who should have this cut in the first place. I believe that this is the most relevant information on whether this planning and consumption is economic and in the interest of the economy and on the other side of the population, of the individual groups mentioned at the outset, in the presentation of the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, where it was said that in the coming year we will have only a level of tax revenue of 2.5 billion more than in 2014; and that on the other hand, the 2020 budget only spends 80 million more on investments than it has committed in 2014. I think that this information to someone who knows the balance sheet, much or everything, maybe to an average observer a little less. For this reason, things need to be explained in simpler words. Today, it has been said that, despite these favourable results, it is necessary to consider relaxing the so-called fiscal rule, since it limits us from being able to plan individual development policies more ambitiously. Are we really constrained by the fiscal rule at this surplus that we have planned and at this revenue that we have in the budget; or do we, in different planning, not just developmental, but all the policies that the state should provide limit anything else?Oh, my God! Non-economic behaviour, over-public consumption, the nevitity of the country, an extremely liberalised country and everything else that needs to be done in these favourable circumstances is true reforms that have not been done. We had a number of questions about European money yesterday in the context of the questions sent. And what have we learned from these discussions? That in a year we have replaced two ministers in this area, that we do not currently have a minister, that we have been playing this role for two months as Party President Alenka Bratušek, Mrs Alenka Bratušek personally, and that, obviously, the President of the Government does not see any particular problem in this regard, given that we have the worst absorption in the history of this country. In the perspective 2007-2013, we talked about this: the use of European funds was poor and the other Janšev government 2012 had to take a number of measures, a weekly follow-up to the realization that the financial scheme had successfully led to the conclusion. Some projects have also been adopted in the context of the overcommittee to use everything that has been negotiated over 4 billion funds; however, according to Mr Jereb, a member of the European Court of Auditors from Slovenia, in the fifth year of implementation of the perspective, this was 2011, 37% success in terms of available resources. At the end of 2018, which is the fifth year of the current perspective, we have a 24% success rate. Not even a third of the available resources of a billion less because in this perspective there are billions less than in the previous one, we have not been able to draw on them in five years. This year's situation is a little bit better, but the last year's perspective is still 2 billion euros, which will be distributed under rule n + 3 by the end of 2023, but in the coming years you will have to force the spending of 500 million euros per year; now you have not been able to secure the spending of 150 million European funds per year. And at the same time, you're talking about how the fiscal rule burdens you. Who do you think's a fool, please?Oh, my God! Who does he think he is?Oh, my God! First, in your own house, make sure that the money available, which is irreparable, is in the final stage of our money contributed by our taxpayers, our economy, is spent in an economic way. We are at the door of a new financial perspective starting on 1 January 2021, and yesterday we have not heard one specific programme on which we will spend these funds, and what we will do not to witness again what we are witnessing today; and that we will not, excuse us, listen to the nebulosis in your mouth, which speaks of you being limited in the faster development options because we have a fiscal rule written in the Constitution. The fiscal rule is no limit, the fiscal rule is a safeguard that protects us from the interference of certain policies that some in this Chamber have announced, which meant that the economic cycle is starting to stop a little bit more, which will undoubtedly also happen, a disaster for a country like Slovenia. Slovenia has a favourable position, but unfortunately the Sarčev government cannot take advantage of these favourable positions; it cannot take advantage of the resources available to target the projects we need. That's why the Prime Minister said yesterday that we have these funds scattered, forgive the expression, on more than 4 thousand projects, on more than 4 thousand projects. Normally, it can't be used economically. Of course it's projects called soft content and so on. There must be some in this direction too, but the main means should be used for what we need. We don't have a home for the elderly, you've identified many today, more than 10,000 people waiting for care. In many cases, however, it would not be necessary to provide for large funds. It would be enough for the state to release the bureaucratic mechanism and sign concessions for these homes. There's quite a few investors waiting for us to build. At our end, where I come from, in Pivka, in the Bad Valley, we would already be building these homes, everything is ready; however, this mechanism is strictly bureaucratic and restricts this initiative. With a view to making use of European funds for these purposes. People shouldn't have to wait. Not to mention another area called health care, where people die of too long waiting species, which are artificially created problem. We have a good profession in this area, we have good hospitals, we have bad managers in one part, but this can't be an obstacle so that this system won't be renewed in a few years. Those who control their business — and some in this country — must be engaged, just as it was recently done at the champagne hospital, so that things can be arranged where they need to be arranged. If someone is a successful manager in Isola, they'll obviously be successful at the Schempeter Hospital. And something similar is happening in all other areas. With regard to housing policy, there has been a talk about how this country has had no housing policy for several years, and as far as European money is concerned, this is one of the areas where it can be obtained. We have recently read how one part of the Cypriot city core will be renewed by European means. Be careful, there is a great deal of praise to be given because we will draw $250,000. 250 000 euros, these are two apartments; where we could draw millions for the renovation of the old historic housing fund, where we could draw millions of European money for energy recovery, and so on, what has already been done in the past, during the period of the previous financial perspective 2007-2013, when more than 300 kindergartens, schools and other buildings at the level of municipalities from European energy money were reinvigorated: renewed heating systems, improved housing standards and so on. None of it is. None of this is possible, but the situation is more than favorable. If it was then possible to provide State resources to European projects when there was no money when budgets were empty, it would be so much easier to do so now; of course, not with the policy we have today, because we do not have a Minister for Cohesion and European Affairs, this sector has been run by one of the coalition parties for the second month. It is absurd that, with these extremely favourable numbers, a person cannot support such a budget, of course, because these ambitions and what they could do with these numbers are too small, significantly too small. What is most important, however, is that all these favorable numbers are not felt by an average citizen. It has not felt them for the 2019 budget, i.e. this year, and will not feel them for the 2020 budget, because it is necessary to realise that budgetary resources are practical resources from taxes and contributions that these funds contribute to the economy, the public sector in particular to the public sector and the public. That it is their money and that it is our responsibility, governments and all of us, to treat this money in a cost-effective manner, and that people, because they pay these taxes and contributions, get back the money as much as possible through investments in infrastructure modernisation and, on the other hand, through services that should be accessible to all under the same conditions. For this reason, they rightly expect regulated justice, police, public prosecution, health care and all other systems and subsystems in that country; because few of these systems operate. For example, in the area of security, it has been mentioned that we must provide greater security resources, while at the same time citing Prime Minister Sarec in contravention of the law, the National Security Council, where it does not invite the President of the largest opposition party to join. But it does not refer to this National Security Council because 10,000, 13,000 people per year illegally cross the border and then have to return over 90% to Croatia and then this story is repeatedly repeated; no, it does not invoke this National Security Council, but calls it to prevent people who have self-organised themselves from helping these people to avoid these crossings. It therefore calls on the Prime Minister of the National Security Council to go over its own people by law. It's your policy, it won't take long, it can't. He can't. Long-term politics like that can't work. Energy and resources need to be directed to help people who need help. If a migrant from Morocco in Ljubljana raped the lady twice within ten days, he must be deported immediately. Will you give him permission to work as well as a Seville barber or what is it called - Ahmad?Oh, my God! There can't be a country with such policies, I'm sorry. It is also part of the responsibility to deal with public money, that money intended for security is used to protect its own people; rather than violence against its own people, as is done by the Sharčev Government, also through the National Security Council. The next category I mentioned earlier is pensioners. We've heard a lot of praise, 4.5% of your pension in one year and three months, that's February 2021, higher. The MP of the Sharchev Party said that whoever today has 530 euros will have 557 euros at the time. It will have more than €27. At the same time, in just one year, since you have been in government, voluntary health insurance has increased from €26 to €35. It is said that voluntary health insurance has raised him by 35% since you are in government and he will receive a pension in one and a half years' time. These favourable conditions, this favourable budgetary framework, certainly do not feel these pensioners. We have proposed that pensioners should be given 500 Euros of Christmas to those with the lowest pensions in view of the situation they are in. 150 million euros a year means this measure, 150 million euros. And that was unacceptable, you can't do that. In winter, people who have low pensions most need additional resources because they are burdened by very high heating costs, especially in multi-housing buildings where an unfortunate rule has been adopted years ago and therefore people are significantly more burdened than they should have been. And all the other costs are higher in the winter. And all the countries that give something to their people help these people when the costs are the highest. And Christmas is one such measure that would also alleviate the hardship created by the adoption of a decision by the Bank of Slovenia, which went primarily to protect borrowers and not banks in restricting access to credit. And someone who can't buy a washing machine could buy it from the Christmas tree, you wouldn't have to take a loan for it; or a central heating oven. But no, that's not possible, but it's possible to give everyone an extra €6.5 per year at the pension. These beneficial effects, which are reflected in the good functioning of the economy, in the economic behaviour of the population, are unfortunately not reflected in the way that, given the taxes and contributions paid to that country, people would receive back favourable, quality services from the country. And unfortunately, they don't reflect fully back in the way that people get better public services where they have to be provided by the state, as far as such and other infrastructure is concerned, and so on, of course, the financial framework is very rich and could be done in this context. For all these reasons, I am afraid the budget for 2020 and for 2021 are not the same as it should be in the given situation. And even though it has been said that all ministries are getting more money, please, we don't need money for bureaucracy. We need money for what this bureaucracy should ensure: when you commend that because they are such good numbers, young people do not wait for housing; when you boast that because these numbers are so good, all those who have some average income have normal access to housing arrangements; when there will be no more ten thousand waiting for homes to grow old; when people who come out of operations, especially older ones, can receive normal health care in extended hospital treatment, to which everyone cannot now access; when pensioners, especially those with the lowest pensions, will have a suitable supplement every year, as all countries know, where they are helping in this area; and when the security of people in this country is actually guaranteed in this way that we will all be equal before the law, then, of course, such a budget and such a financial framework can be supported. Like the one on the table today, I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Member Luka Moon has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you for your word and a nice hello. It's interesting, Mr. Chernač, that you're talking about supplementary health insurance. It is not voluntary, by the way, it is complementary, which must be paid by everyone if they want access to health services that otherwise belong to him under compulsory health insurance. But if he wants to get to them without payment, he has to pay extra health insurance. I completely agree with you. It's unacceptable. This is the most unfair tax we have in this country. Everyone, regardless of their income, is now paying €35 for this service or some imposed tax, which is totally socially unfair and unfair. But when we have proposed that this be abolished in Levica – we have a very elegant way, on 27 November you will have the opportunity to make that decision again – and then, of course, we reach a wall where you are not, not Nova Slovenija, not the Slovenian National Party and not even five parties of the coalition can agree that this anomaly, which I think is clear that it should not be, can finally be eliminated. November 27th is the day you can put an end to this. At that time, you will be able to relieve each pensioner for about 30 euros a month, or about 360 euros a year. So much for a start. In other words, I would like to talk about some of the things that have been mentioned in the debate and the budget in general. There has been a lot of talk about encouraging work, and the budget is now being criticised also by the coalition, if it is too generous to the recipients of social assistance, but I will present you two figures. Firstly, expenditure on social assistance is being reduced in both the following year and 2021. The budget provides that expenditure on social assistance will be reduced from 420 million to 379 million and for monetary social assistance from 300 to 271. Both items are decreasing. So it is not true that social assistance items are being inflated. Social assistance provisions are falling. Secondly, when we talk about the need to encourage work, we need to take a little look at the data of the Statistical Office. Eurostat also has a similar figure, Eurostat said that 4.3% of people were unemployed in Slovenia in September 2019. These are historically low levels. When the unemployed are below 5%, we usually talk about the economy having full employment. Among these 4.3%, you can find information on their structure in the Statistical Office. More than a third, almost 40%, is over 50 years old, which does not mean that these people are lazy and do not want to work, these people have usually worked, and now that some industrial companies have failed, usually outside Ljubljana, it is very difficult to get a job. And what are you going to do with these people? They will take 100 euros out of their pocket to fall from 400 euros back to 300 and say - here we go, but now work. And you will introduce forced labour, which you last tried with the SDS in the law on the supplement for work activity; and you will drive them to work for 200 euros a month. Here we have to talk about concrete people, 40% in the structure of unemployed people over 50 years of age. 15% of people receiving social assistance are registered people with disabilities. What are you going to do with these cripples? Are you going to drive them away by reducing social assistance? Let us have a little humanity and take little care of what we say. I know that a lot of people are angry now because they're working and they're being paid poorly and it seems unfair to them when politicians say that now someone who doesn't want to work gets 400 euros; you have to wonder if these people really don't want to work or they're looking for a job and they can't find it. Or we could work, but they're disabled. Or we could work, but they're mental patients. Among these 4.3%, as jobless as they are today, believe that the vast majority of people who, for such or other reasons, could not find work or find work at all or are not capable of work, unfortunately. I wish it weren't, too, but it is important to be aware that we have the poor in Slovenia and that these poor people need help. When it comes to pensioners, it's the next thing. If we are talking about the information that Minister Bertonzel says that we have the best budget in Europe, that we have one of the largest budgetary surpluses, we should ask where this surplus comes from. If you look at how much the budget contributes to pensions, you will find out; we have a pension fund and we have a budget, now I will only talk about the budget because the budget was paid into the pension fund during the crisis, currently this is the picture. The pension item in the budget will be lower by 120 million euros than it was last year, or by 600 million euros lower than it was in 2015, the pension line will go down in the budget; and this is one of the largest sources of this surplus, which the minister now says is the best in Europe. But then you have to look at the other picture again, and what does that mean for the pensioners? The poor half of them live with pensions that are at risk of poverty, at least 78 thousand of them socially endangered. So, is it right to save and create this surplus on their backs, or isn't it? I think it is also necessary to ask here what the government can do to fix this number, or not now, as Camusov Caligula said – the budget is the most important thing in the world, let everything else die. It is important to ask what certain numbers in the budget or on paper mean, and they must always be translated into real life. Now I've told you two about whom you speak very highly over your thumb. You speak for social benefits, if you are lazy, they need to be taken a little bit longer or forced to work; you do not see the pensioners in this surplus that the budget has created from 2015 to today, although in fact the pension line has contributed almost the largest share to this surplus today. For the next year, if the government wants to become social again, to keep its social face, it is likely that one of the first tasks to be done is to seek resources to secure decent pensions for all. Let me remind you, the coalition agreement promises that the minimum pension in the State of 630 euros will make a significant contribution to this country by every 40-year-old pensioner above the poverty risk threshold. But if I go a little bit wider when there's a lot of talk about fiscal rule and we hear from the right hand especially that the fiscal rule is sacred and untouchable, the means must be redistributed within the fiscal rule. First of all, this is extremely difficult, second of all, the question of what the effects of this are. The IMF conducted an analysis on two assumptions. First, he tested the effects of cutting off 100 million people in the public sector and investing 100 million in railways. It cuts off salary spending and invests in railways, investment, infrastructure. The multiplier effect there is 0. It is said that only if it attracts additional money into the economy, but it can achieve very good multiplier effects at the time of economic growth cooling or negative economic growth, even up to 3%, these are IMF data. And that is why I am returning to the father of the fiscal rule, the German economist, who proposed that the European countries put it in their constitutions. This man now notes that not only elsewhere in Europe, but also in Germany, which has come up with this and forced the whole of Europe, investments have stalled that German infrastructure is lagging behind the US and China in many ways, from the development of the IT sector to the development of green technologies. And what does this man now suggest? It suggests that fiscal rules begin to be circumvented by establishing state-owned infrastructure funds, which are now practically at negative rates, including for Slovenia, which are accessible in European financial markets; and that this money begins to be invested in infrastructure activities such as railways, energy greening, green technology, development and research. And I think that Slovenia, the Slovenian government should absolutely start doing this right after this budget is adopted, if it really wants to avoid the next crisis. Right away. At the moment, we do not have a crisis due to the excessive indebtedness of businesses, even fewer people, or the country. Those who say that Slovenia is in debt, take a look at the numbers elsewhere. We will slowly have close to 60% of the ratio between public debt and GDP, I think it is now around 65. Japan has 235%, Britain – 120, Germany more than Slovenia. Slovenia is already in Europe and in the world among the under-average countries in charge. I agree that everything must be done to ensure that this debt is cheap, those bonds that have been leased at the rate of duty should be replaced as soon as possible for cheaper, now that practically negative interest rates are available on the market, and that debt should be cheaper, to reduce the interest rate to zero. But now it is the main task of this country to repay debts to some foreign banks, which will then deposit this money with the European Central Bank, and we are losing funds for investment and development; here we need to ask a little bit about the purpose of this. The only thing you're going to do with this is you're going to do exactly what this German says, you're going to bring Slovenia into a developmental blockade. This budget already says so. Most of the budget relies on European funds, where I little agree with those who are skeptical about it. It is said that there will be, if I am not mistaken, €259 million additional from the European Union funds. A similar plan was in fact already in the 2019 budget. The realised item, however, was less than the forecast for 200 million. I am seriously concerned here about what happens to the investment part of the budget. If I draw the line, please don't think about it when you're talking about how you'll encourage someone to work by tightening the belts in the budget. You need to look at who's out of work and why. I don't know what fiscal achievements you're talking about when you're talking about surplus. We need to see how, why, and on whose shoulders this surplus is produced. As we look at the next decade, we need to talk in particular about how to revive investments in Slovenia that have stalled. They're stopped in railways, they're stopped in apartments, they're stopped in development and research, they're stopped everywhere. And if we are to awaken them, we will have to come up with a different way of thinking, as has been the case in the last decade, a crisis decade, which fortunately ends this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, you have a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u52	My colleague Luka Mesec, the Sharčev government, was given the opportunity to send the votes of the Left. You signed a coalition contract with Charcé’s government or coalition of five, stating that you would terminate voluntary health insurance. This is your problem, not the problem of the Slovenian Democratic Party or any other party. All I was talking about was that, instead of what you wrote in the coalition contract, you allowed, in one year, together with the Sharchev government, that supplementary health insurance from 26 euros per month increased to 35 euros per month, by 35%; this is what I was talking about. That's what I'm talking about, in connection with the promise to raise pensions in a good year and a half by 4.5%.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there's still interest in the debate. I'm asking you to sign up. We've got seven applicants. The first one gets the word Igor Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The adoption of such an important document as the budget, but at this point I will limit myself to the 2020 budget, is a responsible and important task, as we have heard today from several colleagues and colleagues. Here I am not only referring to the responsibility of the government as a proposer, but I am speaking and thinking of the responsibility of all of us who are sitting in this Chamber and we will at the end of this complementary document, whatever it is, say "yes" or "no". The document must follow certain rules, and first of all it is a fiscal rule, as we have said several times. And here I really have a problem with the obvious that we want to avoid this fiscal rule. What you're saying is certainly out of place, because it's simply not true. The fiscal rule is a functional rule which we must not ignore in any way; and it has been repeatedly said, also by the Minister, that we do not ignore or neglect the fiscal rule. The document was prepared by the government, and we will confirm it here, in the National Assembly. Any changes and additions that may still occur during the legislative process must also be accepted in a responsible, thoughtful and wise manner. I consider the draft budget to be an appropriate document because it represents the right balance between development and social orientation, with the government following its priorities. I just want to mention at least three of the key things here: health, science, the economy. This also shows a budget surplus of 415 million in 2020, which is essentially 0.8% of GDP. However, I would like to focus more on one area, this is the area of the economic and developmental part of the budget, since the general part of the figures has already been said. The Ministry of Economy, Development and Technology will receive a good 15% increase in funding under the 2020 budget proposal, which amounts to around 316 million. In 2019, we were in the budget balance at 274 million. There is also a tendency to strengthen the international competitiveness of Slovenian companies and to change the structure of the Slovenian economy. However, this raises an increasing question of how to stimulate innovative thinking in companies; or, if I say otherwise, how to stimulate and reward this innovative thinking. The fact is that the economic environment, whatever it is or in any area of the economic environment, businesses are not comfortable with slow and firm businesses. Here I am delighted by the ministry, which says that attention will be given to innovation and the development of innovative and environmentally friendly products. The latter, of course, I absolutely support, but here we are very happy and very often stopped at the concept of a circular economy, where we have been in the past, and I am sure that we will also face at least two important challenges in the future. The first of the challenges is that at a certain point, we may be dealing too much with the circular economy itself, and we give too little emphasis to the effects it can bring. Secondly, it is how to encourage those companies, which are doing this too slowly in their development process, efficiently and intensively. And I think it should be the country here that would encourage these companies. As such, the government is already in the process of introducing this policy, and I believe that these funds dedicated to this segment will become even more eloquent in the future and that more efforts will have to be made to implement and implement this principle of the modern economy in a consistent manner. It is also encouraging that the Ministry of Education will spend 302 million on science and the information society in 2020. For 2019, the current assessment of the realisation of 250 is good. After the share of investment in research and development – here I am thinking about the country and also the economy – we are the best with 2% of GDP among the new Member States, but we are still lagging behind the most developed. If I say only two cases, we like to compare ourselves with Austria, Austria invests almost three times as much per capita as we do, Germany has set 2.5% of GDP for its purpose. I think there is still a lot of room here, and in the future we will have to make a fair effort to make up for this development step. I am also convinced that the budget is development-oriented, as shown by the budgetary programming structure. It shows what public funds are spent on and what a specific budget programme is implemented. 50% of all expenditure is devoted to key policies, namely education and sport, social security, pension protection, defence, protection and home affairs and security. The fact is, however, that the structure of government budget expenditure is rather imprudent. Unflexible in work, as there are a number of obligations and categories, such as salaries and contributions, transfers to individuals and households which are important for the implementation of individual policies, are already legally determined in one way or another. Or if I say more domestically, if I may say so when we plan all our obligations, we have very little money left to allocate. Many amendments have been tabled in the process of adopting and supplementing the budget. Some of the amendments that have been tabled are technically feasible, but they are not realistic and not credible, because they simply cannot be included in the budget within the fiscal options framework. It is also appropriate to take into account the decision proposed by the Government to provide sufficient resources, for example for the construction of the western suburb of Slovenska Bistrica, as investment in such a part of the infrastructure contributes significantly and has a positive impact on economic growth. I hope and believe that money will also be found in the future to upgrade the railway line and that all the necessary conditions will be met as soon as possible. Finally, if I conclude by going back to the beginning; with the developmental direction of the budget, this government also cares about the quality of citizens' stay from an economic and social point of view. By investing in research and development, the government takes care of the country's development-oriented policy and constitutes a necessary condition – Sine qua non, as we like to call it – for a successful society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u56	Mr President, thank you for the floor. After five, six hours of discussion and the views of the parliamentary groups, in particular the positions of the coalition's parliamentary groups, one conclusion can be reached. This government will continue the policy of previous governments, the policy of extra burdening citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the economy, the debt policy. But you added another new segment – the abolition of the fiscal rule or the amendment of the fiscal rule. On the Committee on Finance, two parties to the coalition proposed this and discussed it in their debate, but today I think that the Social Democrats have said a great deal that they want changes to the fiscal rule or its abolition, according to Comrade Bevk. It is slowly coming to grips with what is the main objective of this coalition. I would like to ask the coalition, today the minister said that Slovenia has the best budget in the European Union. This was also stated by colleague Bevk and then said that we must end the fiscal rule. There's one thing I don't understand. On the one hand, you explain that we have the best budget in the European Union and on the other hand you are committed to abolishing or amending the fiscal rule. At least I don't think these two things go together the most. Interestingly, even today, the Finance Minister has already announced a withdrawal in the event that the budget is not balanced or that it binds the confidant. This means that things in this coalition, in this minority government, are getting serious. The fact is that this budget you have proposed, at least for me personally, is not the best in Europe, far from it. This budget is not development-oriented, it is not targeted and, above all, I am personally very disappointed because this coalition, the government of Marjan Sarca, has a record income. So much revenue in the budget as you now have has never been in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, you have almost EUR 11 billion in revenue. Compared to 2014, this government has more than 2.5 billion revenue from tax revenues alone, but if we make a comparison with 2014, you will spend more than €81 million on investments. This means €81 million more income for investments compared to 2014, although you have more than €2.5 billion in revenue. When we look at the budget, the expenditure is also record, 10 billion 400 about, but it is clear that these expenditure is intended for the vast majority only to pay public wages, and for everything else it is somehow running out of money. And these are the measures that we have pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this coalition and the government of Marjan Sarca have taken several such measures over the past year, which have long-term implications for budget expenditure. We have warned you that it would be more reasonable to go with a fundamental tax reform, relieve the economy, relieve workers' wages, and thus leave the workers with more money. You have gone more than the second stage – by increasing wages directly, and thus directly burdened the budget expenditure on a long-term basis and thus limited it to bringing into the budget various investments, investments that would have a multiplier effect. The public debt is a problem, Slovenia is in charge of more than €32 billion, of which we pay only for the interest of €750 million in 2020. This is a significant number that could probably be used for other purposes. Taxes, as mentioned above, are still problematic. With €2.5 billion more tax revenue, I would expect a bolder solution than you have done. You mentioned tax reform; for me, tax reform is not about giving something to someone, but you take it from someone else at the same time. In fact, some children in kindergarten know that. You gave something to the workers, gratefully, burdened part of the salary with income, but on the other hand you also burdened the economy with higher taxes on profits and capital taxation. I am sure that today we have record revenues in the budget only because of the economy and those who work in the economy. That is why, once again, I thank you for this and I think that such a stepmotherly attitude that this government has towards the economy has not yet had any government before, nor have the last two governments shined brightly in this area. The country should know how to collect money somewhere else. I agree with what someone has said that we should work a lot more on new revenue in the budget, but not on the taxpayers, let's say on the tax debt. The tax debt, respected secretary of state, is still more than €1 billion. It is true that one part has been reduced, but it is worrying information, and I hope that you can also tell it today in the National Assembly how much the state has written off tax debt over the last ten years. I fear that this figure is approaching EUR 1 billion, this tax debt has been written off, not only indelible, but it has also been written off. Perhaps it would make sense that during the discussion when you speak for the word, you can tell how much tax debt has been described in the last ten years. I am convinced that this government is also a copy of the previous government in the implementation of excise policy. Excise policy is inadequate in the field of oil derivatives, alcohol and tobacco. The fact is that all the items in the revenue budget are increasing except excise duty. The excise duties are falling because they are uncompetitive; and those who have this option, the goods that are taxed extra with excise duties, are purchased in Austria, Italy, Hungary, Germany. The fact is that the letter of oil in Austria is significantly cheaper than in Slovenia if we watch weekly, between 15 and 10 cents. I don't even understand that a thousand litres of fuel oil in Austria is cheaper than about 200 euros. The smoking season is, in Slovenia there is a minimum pension for 40 years of working age of €540; in Austria there is a minimum pension for 40 years of working age of €50. I think these numbers are the ones that should be worrying, but the government is not responding to these numbers, despite repeated warnings. What else did the government of Marjan Sarca do during the past year? Break the relationship between work and work. Today, about one part of the employee who has such incomes at the end of the month when working after 10.8 hours is the same as those at home. I think that's unacceptable. Higher economic growth compared to 2014, significantly lower unemployment than in 2014; however, when we look at social transfers and social assistance, we come to the knowledge that these are higher than they were in 2014, although unemployment is significantly lower and economic growth is higher. Here there are irregularities, here the system is being exploited and this segment urgently needs to be rectified. Specific chapters are European funds, the only resources that are developmental and do not need to be recovered. This means that these are grants that unfortunately we do not know how to make use of. At this point, Slovenia has been able to raise around €3.8 billion from Europe after the success of drawing European funds in the 19th place, and at this point Slovenia has picked up €850 million. What happens to the rest of the money, you don't know. We have been without a Minister for this area for more than two months, and in a period of one year two ministers have been replaced in this area. This somehow also dictates why we are so unsuccessful. Much has also been said about the Presidency of the European Union. The cost of the Presidency of the European Union in the second half of 2021 is planned at 80 million. 80 million without investment. Madam Secretary of State, if you would like to tell us how much more will be involved in the investment plan, which will take place at the same time as the Presidency, or which will have to be carried out for the presidency. In doing so, this number of 80 million for the presidency seems relatively high if we know that Slovenia spent 60 million when it chaired 2008. I don't think inflation has grown that way in this period. Where does the difference of 20 million compared to the presidency of Slovenia come from in 2008? The Special Chapter is also a measure by Banka Slovenije, which has been implemented in the last month, which requires the limitation of housing and consumer credits. This measure by Banka Slovenije has flooded two of the key problems Slovenia has – in Slovenia there are markedly low wages and the country has not done much to solve housing policy in recent times. Due to Banka Slovenije's action today, about 300,000 people cannot reach credits. Banka Slovenije, this is my personal opinion, has done according to the regulator, has prevented what happened to Swiss francs or even earlier with corporate loans. The problem is here – the low wages and the state's stepfather's attitude towards solving the housing problem, as is also seen in the budget document itself, that the government of Marjana Sharca is committed to solving the housing problem in 2020 only €3.7 million. We have also tabled a number of amendments in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which would make this budget more developmental, more targeted by redistributing funds. We will have the opportunity to discuss individual amendments later. Personally, I cannot support a budget like this. The budget is not development-oriented and, above all, it hurts the fact that everything that has created the economy, created by the working people of the Republic of Slovenia, this government has wasted on purely other matters, not development.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear congregation, dear fellow Pogačnik! Just an explanation, I was not rooting for the abolition of the fiscal rule in my own debate, but for its loosening. I have twice mentioned the fiscal rule, which is to quote from the magnetogram: “On the other hand, we have the strictest fiscal rule throughout the European Union. If this rule were to be loosened, all the amendments adopted on the State Finance Committee could also be placed under the roof, and what else could be found.” This is the first reference to rules and grinning. Another reference is: "This may be a new step towards relaunching infrastructure investments, but this will certainly not be enough for a renewed and more tangible increase in economic growth. In my opinion, I have already said this at the October session, the fiscal rule will need to be relaxed and new investments will also be launched on the remaining networks of state roads and rail networks, which are among the most obsolete in the European Union." Or it means loosening up, and I think it's clear enough that it's not about abolishing the fiscal rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm calling again because I have some things to answer. Colleague Lidija Divac Mirnik has highlighted me several times today in her debate. Its properties or some might say imagery in the debate, although we do know that her “flower” that she had to sacrifice her picture, is said to be her face, for posters, everything. I wouldn't go to her level, but I'd just like her to stick to at least a basic bonton in the future. And if he appoints messengers and messengers with names and surnames, let him do it as it should be. And the other thing I'm going to do is focus on content. She really shot herself, shot herself in the knee, first talked a lot about Maribor. Respectable, Slovenia does not have only Ljubljana and Maribor, it has 212 cities, municipalities and all these municipalities must have the same opportunities. Moreover, those in the threatened areas should have so much more opportunities and so much more assistance that they can develop and also enable citizens and citizens, citizens and citizens to live in the same way as they live in Ljubljana and Maribor or where the benefits and opportunities are much greater. Secondly, it has highlighted certain goods, if I so call it, or the rights that citizens and citizens have had for a long time. She was talking about maternity leave. She was talking about free school. All these good citizens and citizens already have because they pay taxes. That's why they pay taxes because it's not true it's free. It is true, however, that your coalition, although citizens and citizens pay taxes, does not allow all children a free school because you are blocking, although the Constitutional Court has made it clear that we must correct this matter. Secondly, I said, indeed, the unnecessary costs for citizens are in this budget, almost EUR 25 million will be spent on the protocol. If I am more clear for citizens and citizens, the government and government will eat up to €25 million. Let's compare this amount to the economy, because some of you are talking about how the budget is economically oriented. You will give 24 million euros for medium-sized and small-sized enterprises. As much as you will eat and drink, you are going to develop small and medium-sized enterprises; only by seeing this difference. Or even better, you spend €3.7 million on housing, although the right to housing is a constitutional category, 3.7 million; while your government cabinet will spend about €6 million, just to compare. Or even more, you will spend 7 million euros on migrants, and on the other hand, as I said, there is virtually no money for building new apartments or homes for the elderly. That's a fact, that's what the numbers say. I didn't think of that. That's what you wrote in the budget. Therefore, I advise my colleague Lidija Divac Mirnik to sometimes wait a little while and think twice before calling. Of course, it is even more important not to offend others, because we will not come anywhere with regret; but we will come by drawing up a budget that will actually aim for a better life for its citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Member Edward Paulic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Although I will focus mainly on the infrastructure and environmental part of the budget in my debate, I would nevertheless point out some general facts. Both budgets, i.e. for 2020 and 2021, show surplus. Both budgets are in line with the Constitution's stated fiscal rule and we are pursuing a social and development dimension in both budgets. With the draft budget, the government has adopted the basic objective of economic and social policy, where, on the one hand, it promotes the competitiveness and productivity of the economy and, on the other hand, it also provides for the most vulnerable groups of citizens. Let me stress that we have spent more than €155 million on social transfers this year than last year, and the government will continue with appropriate social policy. In light of this, it is important to welcome the increase in funding for 2020 in the following policies: science and the information society for the poor €57 million; social security for €30 million; transport and transport infrastructure for €25 million. At a time when the export activity of the economy is cooling down, they are an important lever for preserving the economic growth of the country's investment in infrastructure projects. In this respect, too, we welcome the fact that the government in the 2020 budget allocated more resources to the Ministry of Infrastructure than it did last year. Developments and innovations in the infrastructure area not only mean technical gains, but also provide a greater opportunity for economic and social inclusion, which are key to a successful society. Not long ago, we discussed the Guarantee Act, which would allow us to make two of the largest infrastructure investments in the country; and already I expressed my support for the law and pointed out what all the Koro Region and its 3rd Development Axis inhabitants acquire and why it is important to build a second track. For example, only Korean companies will generate up to €50 million of annual income in the case of the construction of a fast road. There are many other projects that are also important to our country and citizens. From major investment projects to investments in motorways. For example, for the 2020 rail network, €271 million is allocated to investment in the motorway network – €63 million, an additional €13 million is dedicated to the construction of three new railways, and funds are also provided for the construction of the western bypass of Slovenska Bistrica, which is an essential condition for the growth and development of Impol d.d. And while one of the basic tasks of infrastructure is to enable faster and more efficient movement of passengers, goods and services, it is also an extremely important aspect of the quality of our living environment. Of course, I am referring to climate and climate change concerns, so the design of new infrastructure projects also needs to take into account the environmental and environmental aspects. If I am a little more specific, the budget provides for the recapitalisation of the Environment Fund and the Slovenian Environment and Climate Fund, which will further strengthen the conditions for investment in environmental investments. All these funds are intended to mitigate climate and climate change. The budget also aims to promote investment to achieve energy efficiency and to finance measures to achieve energy self-sufficiency. For sustainable mobility, which is environmentally friendly investments, almost €173 million is earmarked for 2020. Let me list some projects: €6 million is dedicated to the construction of Park and Ride in Ljubljana, Borovnica and Grosupljem, to the organisation of the cycling network in Celje, Ljubljana, Novi Gorica, Kranju, Kočev, Savini region – €7 million; to the acquisition of new train compositions – €20 million, to subsidise passenger transport – €60 million, to carry out the economic public transport service of passengers – €79 million. If we know that we have about 95% of the budget locked up, it is true that it is burdened with legal and other fixed obligations, the draft budget, as far as infrastructure investments are concerned, is well-designed from an environmental point of view. It is clear that desires and needs are greater, but unfortunately we must manage the resources we have at our disposal. Of course, the dynamics of investment also depend on the absorption of European funds and the readiness of projects. But I still think that the design in the budget is good. I will, of course, support the budgets for both years, because they are developmental and social-oriented; at the same time, they also place great emphasis on environmental and climate policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. There's a MEP with a word. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! A lot of words have been said today. There have also been many from the left side, where, as in the past days, we hear long criticisms at the expense of the government and its budget. Oh, yeah. Why is there this government, ladies and gentlemen? Because Levica gave Marjan Sarc the vote to elect the Prime Minister of the Government. Just because of nothing else. All the Lefty blues we've been listening to all day is incredible, unrestrained, even grotesque, and especially ridiculous. If Levica had not voted for the election of Marjan Šarc, Slovenia would have a legitimate government as determined by the voters in the elections, which is the only thing that would be right; in particular, it would have a different budget, a much nicer, brighter development perspective, and of course would not have faced everything that is not in this account for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The budget, as it is before us, is inadequate and is also misplanned. It just proves that you're going to raise taxes again, because the other, in fact, doesn't even know the ruling coalition. And because of this, it is evidence that last year Slovenian entrepreneurs were relatively well managed and we experienced economic growth, only proof that Slovenian entrepreneurs are so extremely capable of achieving good results despite such a poor government as the left-wing government we have. I just want to keep it that way. Unfortunately, according to forecasts made by the Chamber of Commerce, around 40% of Slovenian entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs will already be planning or even implementing the relocation of companies abroad due to a completely counter-development, wrong economic policy, and in particular due to the excessive taxes you are imposing and forecasting for the next period. The planning of this budget ahead of us is about the same — somewhere behind nine mountains and nine waters. Because I would like to remind you that it has been a number of months since I warned in this National Assembly that there is a crisis, that it already appears on our most important international partner, that is, the German economy. When the German parliamentary delegation was here, their parliamentarians, in a discussion with the President of the State of Pahor, announced that they were also expecting a 40% drop in some sectors in the coming years. Slovenia, as a large exporter, is mainly focused on the German market, which is our most important market, which depends on Germany and its success. And the budget should be such as to allow entrepreneurs to work properly under these changed conditions, so that they can work so that they can invest in their task. Money, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you're all seated so you won't be so shocked in the coalition, not falling out of the sky. It's done by entrepreneurs who generate incomes, and then everyone who pays taxes. Press money is no longer in Belgrade, I have a feeling that some still have it in their head and imagine that, when necessary, the country can print money and then do what it wants. That's not how it works. And this budget that's ahead of us is overblown. It is exaggerated to the extent and will cause disastrous consequences: short-term, to raise taxes, which you already predict; and long-term, that you will owe yourself and you will carry the burden of your loss to the next generation, as you predict. So it's clear what the picture is like. But what's a development tragedy for Slovenia is what you're spending that money for. This money is for a bunch of crap, not to say crazy things that you even brag about. The only time in recent years, when it was fair to say how much madness with illegal migrants costs, was the 2016 budget. At the time, 123 million euros were earmarked for illegal migrants. Since then, of course, you've hidden this beautiful handball on various items, on different ministries, and today you're saying that it costs only a few million, which anyone who can't count to 10. Anyone who can count to 10 or more will, of course, never believe you. This is one of the things you spend your money on. But not only are you wasting it, you are also causing this crisis and you are additionally burdening the budget. What did this government do? It signed the Marrakesh Agreement behind the back of its citizens and citizens. So far, you have rejected all proposals to tighten legislation in the area of mass abuse of the right to asylum or illegal migration, so that Slovenia is now promised a country in the eyes of illegal migrants and becomes a target country, irrespective of the fact that it is the only one, in slogans, lucky for Slovenia, that it has such a distaste for the government that most illegal migrants are waiting only to cross the border again towards the West, where they have more successful governments and also greater prosperity and higher standards. Not only that, but you also pay for NGOs and even boast about it. Another tens of millions of euros are earmarked for this. Those based on LGBT ideology help illegal migrants to break into the territory of the Republic of Slovenia are said to be in violation of Slovenian legislation; and then delay all procedures to become so expensive and so much more burdened by the budget, which is, of course, all paid by Slovenian taxpayers. As a result, you create the conditions in which the most capable layer of Slovenk and Slovenes – young, young families, highly educated, entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs – move abroad. You intend to replace them with upcoming migrants. Legal, illegal – in this case it doesn't matter. What are the consequences for security, for the well-being of people, you don't care. You're only interested in election votes. This proves that you are not only responsible for the current situation, but you are also guilty of the current situation because you deliberately cause it and even potentiate it. What does a budget like this mean for the development of Slovenia? Catastrophe. How can a proposal come to Parliament that does not even have the projects that have already been envisaged in the past years, such as a mountain railway, such as, say, the Blaze bypasses, be able to count a thousand more things. This is not in, the money will be spent on all possible nonsense types of combating climate change, electrification of traffic, so that the image will be about the same as it is now in the United States, where it is now the second time in this year that the polar ice is back on; and then the various electric cars get so tightly chained, because, for the first time, it reduces their capacity if you don't know it, and for the second time, they have all the problems with starting with something else. Or eventually they're attached to diesel generators and everything becomes grotesque, funny, or worse. But you need to know that this is no ecology, it's just business. Environmentally speaking, the production of electric cars, which you are still forcing, is more ecologically controversial for our Earth, much more burdensome than making conventional cars. But forcing such solutions in Slovenia is even more foolish and demonstrates the short-sightedness of the ruling coalition and, above all, its government, Marjan Sarca. Where the only truly well-known and internationally established brand of the Republic of Slovenia is Akrapovic. What's Akrapovich doing? Exhaust systems that electric cars don't have. By forcing such nonsense you harm the Earth, you are, in fact, ecologically regardless of the big words, and you harm Slovenian entrepreneurship and destroy the only truly global brand that Slovenia has. So much for what the ruling coalition is doing and what the budget is now ahead of us. You have forgotten that everything that is normal in the country — safety, health, education, well - being — must be taken care of. But this does not fall from the sky; to achieve this, you first need effective, good entrepreneurship. The task of the government and the rulers is primarily to create a framework within which entrepreneurship is strengthened, to develop, to breathe and also to cope with the crisis, when it has to face it, because it is such an economy that we know that it always varies in certain cycles. And now we should have a cost-effective and security-oriented budget ahead of us. None of this is an integral part of the budget. You have a waste in you as much as you want, but none of what I mentioned was worth any special emphasis, to which not only people have all the right, all the legitimacy, but they also have the right under the Slovenian Constitution, because it means that such a budget can be constitutionally disputed from this point of view. Such a budget does not deserve support, you all know that, but you insist on it. In order to hide these things from the public, there are proposals, as Mr Šarec explained here last time, that he will, in a new way, limit the availability of houses and apartments for owners. I don't know, he probably only meant it in Ljubljana, because the government wasn't able to build or provide suitable accommodation for students, but now he's going to limit it so that the owners of these houses will have to accept students. Wait, ladies and gentlemen, has anyone in the government read the Slovenian Constitution? Is it? What about that article that says that private property is untouchable and that the one with it is obliged to rule by the principle of a good master? And you won't believe it, the country has a duty to enable it, not to make it impossible or to limit it. This is socialism, which we are actually witnessing, not just in this particular case, but in the 100 other cases that we have witnessed in recent years. It's nothing new. It has been dragging for quite a good number of years and the result is completely aboriginal laws, especially in the area of regulating space, building houses and so on, as if we are the richest country in the world. However, any errors that have been made in the past by a country that has not been able to establish order has been passed on to new owners. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the constitution, someone whose country has failed to act, let's say that he loses a building permit and so on, ask the archive a little bit about what's going on in this area, the state is even obliged to cover the costs. For if, because of negligence, for other reasons, the state causes harm to someone, problems, it is his duty to even make amends. But you pass legislation by always punishing the one who owns it. And with this burden of the country or responsibility for social entrepreneurship, to the private, to everything, you are carrying out in some way a disguised nationalisation, as if we were in 1945 and not in 2019. This is the real policy of this government that comes from the budget that is ahead of us. I reject such a policy in its entirety. That kind of policy doesn't lead anywhere. Today, success, security, the reputation of countries is guaranteed not only by the military but first and foremost by successful entrepreneurship. As long as the only lever that this government is capable of using is said to be an increase in taxes, this government has been a disaster for Slovenia for so long. And it's a shame every day when it exists. I only hope that these amendments that have been adopted on the committee will also be accepted on the plenary. I'm sure I'll vote for that one for the railroad. I'd like to know what happens then. Such a budget as has been proposed should be rejected, rejected in full, and imposed on the Government to prepare a different one. The way Slovenia needs it, and the Slovenians deserve it. A budget that will guarantee security, efficiency, prosperity and everything that the state has to provide; and that will not waste money on the stupidities that are in this budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you very much. First of all, sincere congratulations on this vivid imagination to back up your opinion. But the judgment will be created by humans themselves, it makes no sense. Yes, we've acclamated the Marrakesh Declaration as well as your leader in the past, but it had the same name. But you, too, in the resolution on national security, which we discussed a few weeks ago, have committed your hands to the intelligence service. Why, you're probably the only one who knows, so please don't tell me about security. And then it peaks at i, and only the migrants were actually missing today and the denial of climate change, and the budget is actually perfect. And if in the beginning you had a musical analogy with Levi's blues, he was now pure SDS-pop; both together by the listener was one great mourner. One is a skeptic that I understand, of course, and the other is dramatization because of the drama itself. Of course, I thank everyone for the concern expressed, otherwise catastrophic blackness, but this is expected, and I believe that you can't have a different view. And we go to concrete statements, first on pensions and easy use of numbers. Firstly, we have already stressed in our position that pensions will be harmonised in 2020 and 2021. This year's pensions have already increased by 4.2% and the following year they will increase by 4.5% and an annual pension allowance of 145 million euros will also be paid. All pensioners will also receive higher pensions in 2020. And I'll do it again. If today the lowest pension is €530 for 40 years of work, it will be next February, not after one year, February of the following year, €557. And if this government's pension was €600 in autumn 2018, the monthly pension of €647 will be due to the coordination of February 2020. And once again, I stress, not in a year, every month; and it will start already in February. Who took the pension and the pension increase to the pensioners? ZUJF. Let us also ask, Who reduced the percentage? But this is anyway irrelevant data because those who receive these pensions are suffering; from those who receive 80%, up to 57%. But this government intends to raise the dose percentage to a good 63% in the coming year, if possible. Then we have easy use of numbers, secondly, supplementary health insurance. The government has raised supplementary health insurance in the last year from €26 to €36. So let's look at the actual situation. In 2017, there was twice as much encouragement, from 28 to 29.5 euros, this is already a small difference, already more than 26 at the beginning. There was no exposition in 2018. This year, however, there were really two auctions and now the price has somehow settled at 35 euros, depending on which insurance company you have completed supplementary health insurance. But did the government do it? As is known, supplementary health insurance is regulated by commercial insurance companies and regulated on the market. Otherwise, you will have the opportunity to make this decision very soon when we vote to abolish the DZ; although you have had 16 years to do this task, there was no political will, probably, at least this time it will not be. Then we hear the same argument over and over again, because it doesn't matter which budget is adopted, whether the balance is taken, whether the two counter-arguments are always exposed – it's not developmental, it's not social, you're just raising taxes and doing nothing. No, we have unloaded the income and set a minimum rate of corporate income tax of 7%. Not 7, I'm sorry, but from nothing, some companies paid no taxes, even though the legislation stipulated that this tax should somehow be paid, but with the facilitations there was nothing. And this has actually materialized and realised in recent years. But now we can get to the fiscal rule. The Minister and the Government, with the proposal for both budgets for 2020 and 2021, respect, as the Fiscal Council has also stated, both proposals are in line with the fiscal rule. It is true, however, that over the next two years, if we add up the budget surplus, created by €1 billion in surplus, which we cannot spend precisely because of the fiscal rule, not even to reduce public debt, this will always remain a reserve. And all we want to do is change the formula in compliance with the fiscal rule, not to be abolished, because it would be a big damage because a lot of work was done with the fiscal rule, but now it turns out it's not life. And the obvious that we're going to spend too much. Obviously we can't spend too much because we have a fiscal rule. To change the fiscal rule, we need 60 votes, and if we do a little recalculation, at least we're good at primary mathematics, that fear is superfluous. This constant beating about the fact that we are about to demolish one of the foundations of our fiscal policy is completely superfluous. Most of the state's assets have been sold by now. What remains should remain for the demographic fund, that it will actually be created for pensions and that the country or the budget will no longer have to invest so much in social transfers, even in the area of pensions, because they all earned their pensions that they paid. And while we are already talking about the fiscal rule, what colleague Mesec said is true, Germany has created a fund of EUR 55 billion that will release them immediately, or release them, to create a higher domestic consumption; and thus prevents the economy from cooling down. And once again, if we go to fiscal rules in any way, there must be 60 of us here, so any change will have to be very consistent and it will have to be agreed with by the vast majority of the people we are in here today. With regard to dwellings, we have heard that in one year we failed or cannot draw up a guarantee scheme. Perhaps within a year, the government failed to prepare a very complex housing law, which would then be followed by a guarantee scheme, and we have already prepared 200 million guarantees in Zipers that could be earmarked for housing for those who for the first time solve their housing problem. This may have failed this government in one year, but one of the previous governments managed to lend the country 6 billion in a year, let us weigh this a little bit. Now we have a budget and a bid here. Of course, you would put more into some programs and into some other directions. They'd give us more, but we can't. Firstly, because the budget has to be balanced and, secondly, because it has to comply with the fiscal rule. However, it is investing in science of 339 million, in entrepreneurship of 193 million, social security of 1.2 billion euros, in health – EUR 198 million for the Ministry of Health, EUR 3.3 billion through the Department of Health Insurance and EUR 500 million from supplementary health insurance. No one's saying that all things count here, far from it. It will take a lot of thought and a lot of action to make things right and it will become what people and all of us expect together. But the money is enough, the problems are probably somewhere else. Where else is the money going? More than €1.1 billion is about investments, representing 11% of the budget. And then we end up talking about how the budget is not development-oriented, not socially oriented. In fact, whatever you do, it's all wrong, it doesn't really have an effect. But I believe that this budget is the result of one year's work and one year's coordination. Of course, a lot of people aren't happy with him, because if everyone were happy, they wouldn't really need us here. We need to find out, even if there are five veins, any arguments that we do not agree with. I agree with this budget. They are certainly within the potential for improvement, and any improvements are possible. There will certainly be structural efforts, because we know that the structure of the budget is a problem, not a height; but that structure is a result of the 30-year work of this institution, not the last government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u67	Dear Members, once again a nice greeting. Reploco's got Mr. Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you. The problem is not a fiscal rule on its own; the problem is wrong planning, which does not take reality into account. That's what I've been warning you about, and once again, I've been warning you about this for months. At the time, some fools were acting, even one statement about the Nobel Prize for Economics was made in the National Assembly by the ruling coalition that the warning that real spending and budget should be planned could have a negative impact on the economy, because of course there will be no crisis and I don't know what else; nonsense has been said here. Today it's a reality that you should take into account, and you're not. And you know it. And this will have consequences, which you will be waving in one way or another, again at the expense of Slovenian entrepreneurship and at the burden of all taxpayers, who will be charged with new taxes. From this point of view, you also made a comment on climate change; climate change, you know, we all know, has always been and always will be. It's just that man doesn't make them, and man is so insignificant, and he imagines how important it is in this story that it's to make people laugh. The sun is important and its activity is also a number of other elements. What a person can do is very limited. It can contaminate a lot, yes, I'd still agree here, but it doesn't affect any global warming. And whoever fears it has only one purpose — to charge new taxes. Why? Because it's easier to accept people, it's the psychology of the masses, the absurdly high taxes that literally kill them, their welfare and the entrepreneurship of the country, if you say we're saving Mother Earth. That sounds good. In fact, the earth has nothing but damage; but certain pockets are filled. All the formal ecology, I've said this many times, has become just one giant business for the benefit of one and for the detriment of the other. And with ecology as such, say the one advocated by Vane Gošnik, president of the Greens from the time of Slovenia's independence, this ecology has absolutely nothing to do with it. But it's a business that's worth some damn good money to some people. And this business means milking, milking all taxpayers, mortifying the economy. It means lifting investments, meaning spiral, which in fact leads only down, new and new burdens that limit Slovenian entrepreneurship, which should, for the first time, reduce taxes and, secondly, remove all unnecessary bureaucracy, including those in construction. There's more to be done here, but good will is all it takes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u69	Mr. Ambassador, you've used three minutes of replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u70	But you take everything by strengthening bureaucracy, because you're from there too.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u71	In doing so, I also give my word for the replica to Mr. Chernach. However, prepare yourself to be Secretary of State Mrs Sasha Jazbec. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u72	It was said that 11% of the budget was devoted to investments. If the mayors of Slovenian municipalities listen to us, they smile at this because all that is less than 30% in the municipalities for investment is poor management. Around half should be devoted to investments if we are to make good governance in the municipalities. However, I did so because of the remarks made by Ambassador Robert Pavšić, who spoke about the fact that additional health insurance had not been raised from EUR 26 to EUR 35 in the time of the Sharčev government. Of course, from 26 to 28 last year and this year from 28 to 35. These are the facts. But I was talking about it because you promised at the time of the signing of the coalition treaty that you would end this cost to the people. That's not what we promised. That's what you promised. In this period, this cost for humans increased by a third instead of abolishing it. Pensions are expected to be higher by 4%, while at the same time all the other services received by pensioners, especially care in homes and everything else, have also been significantly encouraged. That's what I'm talking about. And please don't cheat.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now you have the floor, Madam Secretary of State. But for her, there'll be a chance for a new round of applications. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! Budget discussions always raise very broad themes. I would like to say that, with this black and white picture, which we are looking at, how life in this country is terrible or what is not, I am actually glad that some coalition Members have already responded to these allegations and have said that we live in the country, I think, compared to other countries, the quality of life at a relatively high level so that we can feel safe and so on. But let's look at the budget now, and I'll look at it technically now. If I respond to these aspects of the revenue side of the budget, to the management of excise policy, we are following different objectives in the formulation of excise policy. The most important are fiscal, economic, environmental and competitiveness with neighbouring countries. And the amount of excise duty follows the primary fiscal objective of pursuing stable public finances, taking into account other objectives. Changes in this area need to be very thoughtful and should be based on as much certainty as possible on the future demand for excise products. This is the only way to ensure that this excise policy is stable and ensures the expected level of revenue. However, in addition to the key public financial objective, it also plays an important role in taking into account the environmental objective of Slovenia's commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. That is why the Ministry of Finance is constantly monitoring the situation on the market and we will continue to do so in the future. As you know, as a small country, what are excise duties in neighbouring countries is very important, we are also limited by this. The reduction in excise revenue is also certainly linked to the fact that cars are now not all on these hard fuels, but also on other drives. This is essentially one process that will have to be used.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u75	Madam Secretary of State, if you interrupt a little, you may get the attention of all Members. Thank you, we're on.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u76	In fact, it will be necessary to get used to this, not only in the field of Slovenia, but also in other countries. Regarding the revenue side or the tax policy, although already mentioned, what this government has done now is that it compared with other countries, how the individual categories are charged, i.e. with taxes, to the direction that it has burdened the work that is above average in all comparative studies, with contributions, not with taxes; and that it has actually additionally burdened capital, which is under average burden compared to others. It has already been mentioned that this minimum rate has now been introduced or has already been introduced because so far there have been companies that have not paid these taxes. The question of two billion more revenue available to this government, or made available now compared to past years, has again been raised. Yes, respectable, of course we do, but in the past years, when revenues were lower, especially tax revenue, in those years the state budget had a deficit, namely a large deficit, a deficit in the size of billions, billions of 300, billion and a half to 700 deficits, in the budgets of those years when the tax and tax revenues were not enough to cover all the needs. If you ask me where this difference is, where we gave these two extra billion, it's a very different balance. Of those deficits that have been, the state budget has shown deficits by 2017, we will have a surplus in the state budget this year, the second year in a row. The next two budgets for 2020 and 2021 are budgets that show several hundred million surpluses. In addition, these two billion have also been targeted at people, as in the meantime various restrictive measures have been released, including in the area of public sector wages, for which 400,500 million more than was intended at that time. We are usually compared to 2014. Thereafter, all restrictive measures in the area of family policy, in the field of social policy, have been released, and rights have increased significantly there. These are the legal obligations that have been entered into in this Chamber and therefore the primary purpose of each budget is to allocate money for such purposes. These two additional billions, or even more, went, as I said, partly into consumption, went to people, partly went to turn this trend, that we no longer have deficit budgets, that we should then borrow. Because if you're borrowing, you have to pay interest. You know that over the three consecutive years we have had more than a billion interest in the state budget, and now with the active management of government debt, the state Treasury has achieved that in the coming year interest expenditure will still be very high – 750 million, projected 752 million euros, but this is significantly lower than it was. I have now essentially moved to the expenditure side of the budget. I believe that, according to the options available, the expenditure side is optimal. If you're saying that one pile of money is spent for non-productive purposes or thrown away, it's essentially more than 90% or 94% of the fixed budget, 95% of the fixed budget, most of it is legal obligations, then one part is the necessary operational expenditure we need to operate. But I believe that we have drawn up the budget optimally, within all of these constraints that we have had, including fiscal rules. It is now crucial to ensure what the Ministry of Finance has been stressing all the time to ensure the efficiency of the use of these funds and to ensure that for those anomalies that are identified or recognized as an anomaly, you simply help them to get rid of them. I think that it has also been mentioned several times today that in the area of family policy, social policies have been discovered that there are now certain anomalies in the system that we think we should eliminate if we are actually looking for the effectiveness of public spending. And in fact, here is also the question of what to do with the laws adopted in this National Assembly with certain financial effects, and it turns out in practice that these effects are substantially – three times, four times – higher than they were planned. The government, when drawing up the budget, has no influence because it is a legal obligation. The legal obligations, as I have said many times, are those for which we provide money first in each budget. If I touch on the developments on the Finance Committee last Friday and the amendments adopted on the expenditure side. For the amendment to the mountain railways, my colleague will help me, and she will explain it to you more precisely. The fact is, there were two amendments back then, one for 60, one for 30 million. As the Minister of Finance has already told you in the opening speech, this amendment takes those 60 million where they are not, because these 60 million in 2020 are actually assets in 2TKK. There are 22 million funds in the budget for this purpose, and these are also European funds for this project. Here I am just reminding you that such amendments, if confirmed, are essentially impossible; or if, of course, you confirm them in the National Assembly, you accept them, then we have to show those lines in the budget somehow, but then this is impossible in practice. And like I said, if you take it where it's not, and you put it where it's not that big of an absorption option, then we haven't done anything very effective. Or we would go even in this direction, as you once asked the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, where we make some hidden reserves. If you put money somewhere where it can't be spent, then it would be some kind of hidden reserve. Here, however, I would just like to comment on the amendment to the averages, as the Members themselves have already said – there is never enough for anything but wishes or needs. However, I would like to stress here once again – and I think that we will have this debate at another point – that the average that was taken into account in this budget this year is exactly the same as calculated by the formula, according to the methodology in the law, is what the four-year average of the statutory tasks of the municipalities is. At the amount that came this calculation, such an amount was offered to the municipalities. Here, however, I would like to point out that, compared to the country, about 2.2 billion heavy budgets are being used for legal obligations and have a difference of 900 million to be actually available for development tasks. The structure of municipal budgets is already much better than the state budget, since they are not mayors, so to speak. It has also been mentioned several times, what percentage of these funds are earmarked for investments in the state budget. And as the Minister has already said today, if you approve the state budget in the proposed form, then in the second law you impose different financial obligations, which are not reflected in the budget, then this matter does not stand together. If I continue to go to the surpluses of these two proposed budgets. They're too much; it's good to have them, I think, because we have a good 30 billion debt generated in this country. This debt was incurred, as I said before, in years when simple revenues were too low to cover all the needs financed by the State. If we create surpluses, then in this way we can partially pay off the debt incurred. If this debt is reduced, if it is also nominally reduced, if it is not smaller than a percentage of GDP; and the debt of the state sector is expected to decrease nominally as a result of last year's surplus and the purchases we received, then this is linked to lower interest. And if we can pay less interest, then, of course, we have more for other purposes within the same vessel. Here I would like to point out that we had a three-year position where interest in this country, when interest had to be paid, was more than investment. In 2016, 2017 and 2018 we had to pay more for interest than for investments. Before 2016 this was not the case, and even this year we count that this trend has been reversed and that we will now be able to spend money for significantly more productive purposes than this obligation that if you are in debt, you will pay the debt. And what surpluses we have or what situation we have in public finances is essential to the price of this debt. If we have now managed to come from deficits to budgets that are in green or black numbers, if we are approaching a limit – the Maastricht border of 60% of the debt is considered to be a sustainable debt – then the financial markets are looking at us differently. You know that financial markets are very sensitive to who the money is to borrow and at what price. And if we have a favourable state of public finances, then we have better ratings. We have an AA minus rating at one credit rating agency. Higher than a credit rating is then lower than the country’s price when borrowing from financial markets. It has also been pointed out that in the sixth year, there are so many beneficiaries of social assistance. Respectfully, the system is set up when a decision has been taken to raise the basic amount of minimum income, then all of these limits are simply raised because all of this is related to the coefficients. And that is why today we have a larger number of these beneficiaries for transfers to individuals and households than we have in those years when it was really bad, when we had a double bottom economic cycle, when we had a strong negative economic growth in 2009, 2012 and 2013. In this regard, I would point out once again that if we detect any anomalies or if there are any suggestions on your bench to eliminate these things, then it is reasonable to support such things. Mr Pogačnik asked about the costs of the presidency. The costs of the Presidency are estimated at around €80 million and are comparable to those of 2008, which was precisely the goal of not exceeding those values. This money will be earmarked for the salaries of public servants, for the Permanent Representation in Brussels, for logistics, for education, for events. This does not include an investment in the renovation of Hotel Brdo, which is included in the third part of the budget with a value of €22.6 million. You've also raised the issue of debt write-offs, and I'd like to turn to that here anyway. Yes, between 2012 and 2008, about a billion debts were written off, but it is necessary to know that over 600 million were written off during this period due to insolvency proceedings, because one of the side effects of the economic crisis was also a large number of companies that ended up in bankruptcy, and from this title there was so much debt. In the same breath, however, I would like to stress what was also the debate at the Commission on Public Finance Supervision, that in the current insolvency law, contributions and tax debt have already been exempted or that there is a priority at the top of these procedures. In fact, it is exempt from these procedures. In order to correctly state that something will not be wrong; after the existing legal regime, the restructuring or write-off of the debt arising from contributions and taxes under the simplified enforcement settlement procedure is no longer possible and those claims after the completion of the simplified enforcement procedure are not cancelled but can be further recovered. Even if we go to the area of personal bankruptcy, all unsecured claims for contributions arising at any time prior to the commencement of insolvency proceedings shall be considered under the existing system of priority claims. The financial administration is effective in these processes, and if we compare ourselves again with other countries, we are among the best five countries, according to a second indicator, but after this so-called VAT gap, how much of a theoretical VAT is and how much is actually collected. One number was highlighted, which I would like to correct, namely that it was for migrants in 2016 EUR 123 million. That's not true. The fact is that the budget planned for this sub-programme for migrants was €123 million, of which funds from the European Union were also expected to make a large part; but the realisation in 2016 was €50 million. Contrary to what has been said, money has now been scattered for various purposes, we have the Office for the Supply and Integration of Migrants, where €7.2 million is available for this purpose this year, and 7.7 million euros are planned for next year. Another area I would very much like to touch, namely EU stories. In this perspective, Slovenia has 3 billion and 68 million so-called cohesion envelopes. This perspective has an anniversary of 2014-2020, but resources can be spent up to and including 2023. By now, the managing authority has allocated 2.5 billion of these funds. The beneficiaries then concluded more than 2 billion contracts with these intermediate bodies. This means that we already have final beneficiaries and that we have purposes for which this money will be spent. And, yes, this gap that it then reaches is at this third stage. When the money is allocated, when the beneficiaries have a decision to support and a signed contract, for which purposes money can be used, then this implementation delay occurs. It is spent, the last payment number was 850 million from the budget, plus 63 million from the financial instruments, says a good 900 million. But here I would like to reiterate this, because I always say that after the contract has already been signed, after the co-financing contract has been signed, there is still a public contract, which takes some time, and in the next phase follows an implementation that lasts several months for investment projects, but you can, you know, even more. Then when buying equipment, such as research equipment or other equipment, it is also necessary to carry out public procurement and it takes time again. However, when it comes to specific research equipment that cannot be purchased from shelves, it is necessary to wait for the selected contractor to actually start working when he wins. While I would like to point out that we have so-called soft projects, these are projects, programmes that have been concluded for a certain period. It is said that they are not a year old, but they are years old – for example, active employment policy measures are implemented for several years and generate payments from the budget every year. Again various projects, training is about the same process. [[…]] Thus, Slovenia is actually less than exactly 1 percentage point than the average here than other countries in Europe, the average was, the last information I have that is that the Member States have spent 35 percent of these allocations, and Slovenia has spent 34 percent. As I always say over the years, this money is not lost, unless it is spent in the current year, then it is available in the following financial years and we have also prepared the next two budgets in accordance with what budgetary users have planned. For this we have a very special document called INOP, a real operational programme implementation plan, where the numbers per axis, per user and per year are very carefully stacked together. I will end this with a large picture of this 2020 budget, which we are currently looking at, all of these meters of budget documents we are essentially trying to get them into one such short form. Now, for the fourth year in a row, we are going to issue this bilateral prospectus of the State budget for 2020, where we want to show people, in a very simple language, how we fill the budget, what this money is for, where the revenue comes from, which is the main source of income, for which it is then spent, is what are the priorities. Then this budgetary cake is divided into policies, because in this country we have a programme budget and we have all 10 billion 358 million expenditure divided into 24 policies, and then within that we have the main programmes and the sub-programmes. Here we want to show people, so for a little while, in the pictures, a little bit in the text, what is the state of public finances. If I would like to reduce this very much right now, I can say that the big picture of the budget for next year is this: if it is the first priority of development, you say that it is not, indeed, but for development, if we consider science, education and entrepreneurship to be the development of €2.6 billion. If we say that the second priority is a social state, and we consider here a real social transfer, that we consider the labour market, that we consider how much the state budget contributes to the pension fund, and that if we add health to it, it is also a social state of €2.6 billion. Third, so the third is security; if we consider the police, the military and the judiciary to be security in this draft budget, we allocate a billion 300. So it's either these three big things or priorities. And then, in fact, I haven't really put them anywhere. Transport is 827 million, agriculture is 467 million, the environment is 400 million, and culture is 223 million – this is the proposal. Here I would end with the idea that we are working at the Ministry of Finance and in the Government for efficiency and transparency of public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u77	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for the extensive explanation. I have, honourable Members, honourable Members, only one question. Do we have one application or more? More. Then let's reapply. I'm starting with the applications. We have, respected and respected, nine applicants. Before that, however, on behalf of the Government, the State Secretary for Infrastructure wishes to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much. In fact, I must admit that I have not followed the discussions today, so I can repeat myself or that some information will be provided twice or more. The implementation of the reconstruction of the Karavanka railway tunnel is completely independent of the upgrading of the railway section between Kranj and Jesenica. Funding for the reconstruction of the railway tunnel is provided in the draft budget for 2020 and 2021. The closure of this route will take place from December 2020 until the end of April 2021 as a result of the reconstruction of the caravan tunnel. It is already aligned with the timetables in Austria. The publication of an invitation to tender for the implementation of these works is envisaged sometime in December of this year. So, as regards the reconstruction of the Karavanka railway tunnel, the budget is budgeted. As for the renewal of the railway line between Kranj and Jesenica, we could also start work in October 2020. In view of the fact that situations coming from November and December to fall into the 2021 budget period, it is estimated that in 2020 we could spend exclusively between tens and a maximum of twenty million. That would make sense, too. Then, in 2021, in those four months, as long as the reconstruction of the caravan tunnel would take place, they would continue to upgrade. The difference in line upgrades would then be performed under traffic. It is not necessary for all works to be carried out during the time of imprisonment. As for the reallocation of funds, as the colleague has already said, it is the EU's funds, the IP or CEF funds, which are intended for the construction of the second track – we are talking about 44 million, which are intended for the construction of the bridge building of Glinščica and for the construction of accessible roads and then another contract, that is 109 million, which are also intended for the construction of tunnels from the first to the seventh. We also have some ideas on how to provide these funds later in 2021. We are considering redistribution of cohesion funds in order to redistribute certain cohesion funds into already implemented railway projects and then on the basis of their own participation in projects already under way, and then, in principle, they could be redeployed to the mountain line. In fact, the amendment, as the colleague has already said, would not have any meaning or effect in this context. I hope I explained what you wanted to hear. But if there's anything else, it'll be next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u79	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for your explanation. Now, honourable Members, honourable Members, once again, we have nine applications. First of all, you have the word Mr Željko Cigler, prepare yourself, Mr Jernej Vrtovac. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Your Honor! First, I would answer very briefly, before I say a few words about the budget, about Robert Pavšič, when he said that supplementary health insurance is a matter of private insurance and regulated by the market. I would just like to tell you that those who have paid compulsory health insurance without paying supplementary health insurance can practically not access a doctor because they have to pay for everything. And this is a very high amount. This is an unfair social tax, which we are reminded of by various international institutions, as Levica has already said in her proposal to regulate this matter. Secondly, I would like to say this that it is very nice for me to listen to representatives of the government that money in this country is enough for a very quality life. The question is how it is now divided, how this budget will be felt by citizens, citizens, young families, children and, above all, local communities. I'd like to say, on average, it's a question of how high it's going to be. Workers in local communities – I have to tell you, a huge part of social policy, life, spatial affairs, housing, health, school, kindergarten, pensioners is taking place and paid in local communities. This was the last time that colleague Polnar spoke very clearly here when he explained the role of the average for local communities. If this is not high enough, an important part of development and social policy in Slovenia will not be able to take place because it is not only the state budget that cares for our lives. I would like to say this: when we look at these numbers, one cannot understand why, because of such marginal means, this budget is no longer devoted to economic, social, human, or older, students, young families. What am I talking about? See, the last dormitory in Slovenia was built in 2006. The amendment that has gone this way and is ready – we will see what happens to it. Pensioner's home - 2005. How much money do we have in the budget for this purpose? Thirdly, primary schools and kindergartens, which are expanding and the needs for them are very high, were co-financed for the last time by the State budget to local communities in 2011. And when the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth had a special meeting on this issue, that the country had set up high standards and standards for kindergartens and schools, and that the local municipalities needed to finance it, and that they did not have money, we agreed that all parties, including coalitions, should co-finance the construction of new school, kindergarten facilities. The budget that's ahead of us is practically like he didn't hear it. 5 million public tender funds for schools and kindergartens all over the country! In 400 there are primary public schools, so I don't talk about kindergartens. Listen, this money puts up three building stages. Don't make fun of people! Speaking of which, what kind of money is this? Next, I'm talking about social work, about the relationship to young families, to children, to pensioners, to students, that's knowledge. When we say that this budget should also be developmental. What we are giving – and what we are warning in Levica – someone else has talked about today – how much we are giving for development or investing in fundamental research when it is envisaged in the coalition contract that the funds for this purpose should be close to 1 per cent of GDP. To enable the Slovenian economy to create greater added value, higher wages, higher pensions, employment for young educated people. Not enough. That's what we're talking about. Let's talk about it. And because this is a marginal amount, which I have said several times that the Ministry of Education does not implement a decision on guidance for primary and primary school children. Do you know what kind of money this is? For 2 to 3 million money. When co-financing investments in primary schools and kindergartens – what money is it? For 15 million a year. Not to mention other numbers. In doing so, the same government and coalition supports it, I will not appoint it, Madam Secretary of State, a state infrastructure project that could be built four to five times cheaper, let's say it will stand there for about a billion and a half. Now listen to what I have said, four times or five times cheaper, and what kind of money this will be for, and this same state infrastructure project could be designed to be fast, quality and environment-friendly. However, it will be financed from public funds. The difference between the smart, rational project and the one that pushes forward and the professional arguments of the public, not just me, does not hear, is so valuable that all of these things are covered by government representatives and coalition parties. In short, this budget could be social and development-oriented. In short, life is nice. People will then think and wonder how many of this budget, which the Government says is record, so high, and we will get citizens and citizens and we will know about our quality of life. So far, what we're seeing is a little bit. Let us hope that the amendments that are ready will at least be adopted in some part and will make the budget more humane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your discussion. Now you have the word Mr Jernej Vrtovec, prepare Mr Franc Jurša. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u82	Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State and representatives of the Government, good afternoon! With one sentence, this budget could somehow be explained in this way; that the government, too, still, regardless of the time of the conjuncture, which is a special opportunity to draw up a budget at a time when we are talking there only, how we will share, on the one hand, but not how we can make things stop. It is said, with one sentence: it is still unable to make this leap or make extensions to make the economy and the country, together, more competitive. In what way? To make long-term extensions. Given the time of the conjuncture, I think we could be more bold in our intentions to enable the long-term development and progress of the country – not for the next period of one or two years, but for ten years, twenty years – to make these extensions. So we've essentially chosen to share social peace for tomorrow, not to focus on what lies ahead. We're talking about a decade. In addition, the problem of this budget, as well as the former budgets, is in particular that we are focusing only on the question of how to share fundamentally, but we are not focusing on the question of how to create more on the other hand. As long as we are in this stage of the economic cycle as we know it today, it is said that such economic growth is measured, it will not be a problem. No problem will and will also ensure further division. But let us not ask ourselves, on this self-evident question, what follows these times that are today. Does anyone in the country deal with signals of a possible recession of economic cooling, and how does this budget appear from this point of view? We can be pessimistic, but when the economic crisis comes, when a period worse than today – economic cooling – comes again and we will take measures like the ZUJF. Do you remember him? And then it hurts, instead of taking it one step further. So instead of increasing the budget spending compared to, for example, 2018 by €800 million, at least some of this could be left to those who create and pay taxes. Here is my first point, i.e. tax burdens and also this year, and there is no way that we can take a step to tax people. Not a small step, as we saw in the legislation two months ago, but a more sensitive step to keep people in this aspect of tax burdens more, more wages. Simply, at the expense of the State, not at the expense of employers, so that people could spend more from this title and could also obtain new funding in the state budget. Therefore, lower taxes so that the country could pick up more and the country would be more interested in foreign investment in order to make it easier for other companies to enter Slovenia. If we are taxed as we are now, we will not be interested in any potential investor or less potential investors in the Republic of Slovenia, as if we had made bold tax burdens. The sustainability of the budget is another point that I would like to highlight. Do you imagine, for example, in 2014, when I was elected to this National Assembly, compared to today, that we have more revenue in the budget of €2 billion than at that time?Oh, my God! Now we ask ourselves how taxpayers feel about it. Two billion euros more. And how do you see this money? How do you see that, ladies and gentlemen? Innovation and science. I agree that there has been a shift here, that there is a larger item, that more funds are earmarked. But at this budget, one wonders, is it enough for a society that is aware that science is the thing that no one can take from you to explore this money that we are spending now – given what surplus we have, what income we have, what time we live in – is that all we are going through? I think that Slovenian society, the economy will stand or have the opportunity to continue as it does now, only if it invests more in science, more in development, in research and thus strengthens itself. Incentivising work, this has also been mentioned several times in various discussions over the past week as regards the appendix. How do you see through the budget that work is worth it? Unfortunately, we do not see this through this budget. In view of how it can be that, with higher economic growth, lower unemployment than it was a few years ago, there are more recipients of social assistance. How is that possible today? And it's happening in this country, here and now. The budget also does not have the right answers to these questions. If we continue to do so in this sense, then the work will no longer pay in view of the difference between minimum wage and social transfers, the highest social transfers. Why would someone work because they can work with social transfers and how else to get a little sloppy comes to the same level as someone who has to work hard for minimum wage every day? Why would anyone even choose to work this way? In the long run, such a system is totally insurmountable. Now imagine that, with these advances in job promotion, when work is not actually worth it, we will arrive at a time of economic crisis when it is necessary to cut. And we don't need big changes, it's real minus the indicators, but very small changes, and we're going to come to the point where money is going to run out in this area and then we're going to need serious cuts. Housing policy, in particular housing policy for young people. Yes, it was hard what the Bank of Slovenia built 14 days ago. Very hard. But these recommendations, which Banka Slovenije has made since 2016, have been written to whom Banka Slovenije recommends in terms of creditworthiness, how and so on, these recommendations are now somehow not legalized, but put in place a more valid one, but the problem is that the country is also through this budget – given that, in my opinion, it has been informed of the measures before – this budget does not answer that one either. And we have a coalition contract, which states that 0.4 per cent of gross domestic product will be available by the end of the mandate to address the housing problem of young people. Do you know how much the current budget is now allocated? In this budget? 3.7 million euros. Tell me how we will track the target of 0.4% of gross domestic product to address housing problems, especially young people. Through this budget and beyond, you can't see it, I'm sorry. In particular, this is a problem, not the Bank of Slovenia, it is a problem of the state. The Bank of Slovenia just says that we have a problem with the creditworthiness of these people. How will the country then begin to resolve this? Through this budget, there is no evidence of how to address the housing problem of young people. About long-term care. This has already been mentioned several times by other debaters. Slovenia, like other countries, is an ageing society and we have problems, for sure. But if we have a problem, then this problem needs to be solved. And if we know that we are an ageing society, we need to respond appropriately. But how can this be seen again through this budget? How do we save long-term care? What plan does the Government have to resolve long-term care? Now let's ask ourselves here if you can imagine who you can afford – for example, an old person who received an average Slovenian salary – who can afford to live in a nursing home. For example, it costs a thousand 300 euros to keep this old man immobile. Who can afford that? Who's gonna be able to afford it if he even gets a place in the nursing home! The last home of the elderly was built If I am not mistaken, it was opened in 2008. [[…]] That's 12 years ago. From then on, it's like we don't have this problem. No, the problem is even bigger, but we're not solving this problem. This is also not seen through this budget that this problem could be solved. Health care, that's what was mentioned. There are increasing funds, certainly, and that is correct, but there is still one fear of solving the health problem in such a way, we can say, nonchalant. We can plunge into our health system a huge amount of money yet, but if we do not radically make changes in health care a structural reform of our health system, then this money that is now going to the health care department will only collapse. Do you know that we have a lot more money in the health register since 2014 because there are more employees, more money is collected from this title of money and there is more money in health care. Now you tell me how this feels. Do we have longer or shorter waiting types and ages? We've got longer, don't we? So it is not a money health problem, the problem is in the organization, in that the money that goes to health also disappears in the private pockets of the individuals of Corruption and customerism in health! Until this first part is resolved, then we can throw huge sums of money into the health register and the problem will remain the same. This would require the first change in health reform, the competitiveness of health insurance in order for me to have more insurance companies, rather than a monopolistic system. People themselves would decide where they want to be insured, not that we have a large conglomerate called the ZZZ. That's where all the money comes in, and then you don't know how this money's being distributed. And the saddest part is that the Minister of Health himself does not have the opportunity to for example resolve or intervene in the functioning of the ZZ. Thus, there is still a congregational system and there are only two representatives of the government in this congregation. Do you remember that calvary with Mr. Fakin when the minister tried to get rid of him, and she couldn't? And the government's spending money here, but it can't manage the ZZZS at all, because it doesn't have that leverage. So, health reform, Madam Secretary of State, I know it's not your area, but money is not a health problem, we're crushing it a lot, but it's all in vain if we don't make health care one that really serves people. And for the end, it's still the hot topic of the average. Liabilities to congregations are falling, and congregations are increasingly bound. And if the congregations have increasing responsibilities, then it is only right that this is followed by an average. That's the responsibility. Because otherwise we can have a few centers and that's it. The periphery, for example, from which I come alone or from the provinces, will be far behind. For this reason, I support these changes, which were voted on Friday because we need local infrastructure, we need that municipalities continue to develop to have some of them. Otherwise, we can lock them up. No one asks how the municipality then manages kindergartens, local infrastructures, sewerages, networks and so on. We don't have anything here to worry about and joke about, because this money still stays where it's needed. As a result, these changes, which were proposed and voted on Friday, are well-intentioned, and all else in the budget is unfortunate: as long as it goes, it goes, when it goes away, it will no longer go. If it doesn't work tomorrow, it'll be over tomorrow or tomorrow. But it's just a big list of wishes, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u83	Yeah, well, great, we're getting more and more into illustrations. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, we are continuing this meeting. You have the floor, Mr Franz Jurša, to prepare Mr Jani Ivanush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u84	President, thank you for your word. A nice greeting to all Members and Members of Parliament and, of course, to our guests of the Government! For starters, it might be right, but we all know that I do know that we know how the budgets are being adopted, because we have been around for several years, whether at national or local level. The opposition will always say that the budget for a given year is not development-oriented, which has all the legitimate right, and I would also like to see something more development-oriented. The budget for 2020 amounts to EUR 940 million,258 thousand,933 for pensions or pension funds. Why am I bringing this up? Because my debate will mainly be based on this particular area. Before continuing, however, I should tell some who said that pensions were rising by coordination — no, respected colleagues and colleagues! Pensions don't rise, they just coordinate and, of course, they hold to a certain previous level by coordination. Our pension system, and we've said that several times in this hall, is accurate. It is paid by people with an intergenerational contract or there is an intergenerational contract. Given that in the past this contribution by employers and employees has been at the same level, this has ceased since 1996. Employers paid 15.42 per cent in their pension allowance, and now they pay 8.85. Workers, however, pay — says workers and those who are employed — 15.42 percent. That is why, of course, the hole created in the pension register is also due to the fact that it is not paid in the same amount by both employers and employees. For 2020, I have already mentioned what amount we need in the pension register in order to be able to pay pensions at this level, as I mentioned earlier. We must not forget, however, that in the most difficult times, let this be a comparison with 2013, we have to put EUR 531 million in the pension fund from the state budget. There's more next year. Why am I saying this? Because of the fact that I'm going to continue to say after what kind of imbalances are inside the division of this cake between certain resources. Slovenia is, in a way, a refugee where employers pay less in their pension allowance than employees. Due to inadequate coordination of pensions with wage growth and living costs, these have been far behind in recent years, and in any event they need to be coordinated more quickly than in the 2020 and 2021 budget. Therefore, I cannot understand that this has been the case when we proposed one per cent of the extraordinary coordination in economic growth of 2.5 per cent within our parliamentary group. I can somehow compare this to the ring, the cage where martial arts are, in this way, it looked like this when we talked about this issue, so that at 2.5% of economic growth, pensions would be coordinated by one percent. In the end, it voted or decided in some other way to share these funds so that everyone would receive 6.5 euros a month. Ladies and gentlemen, €6.5 does not represent any kind of money, and I have no difficulty in dividing myself in this way. But I mentioned earlier that the reconciliation of pensions is the holding of pension levels from the past period, and given that pensioners have contributed a huge proportion in the economic crisis, probably the largest proportion in terms of the fact that we have actually reduced pensions in recession, that pensions have not been harmonised and have fallen 8.4 per cent behind. If you add up this one percent that is supposed to be next year – I hope that you will decide to support us in this matter – then it means that we will somehow reach a level of 5.6 percent. Of course, it is our interest that this level should be reduced to zero percent as soon as possible and that we are trying to close this issue, perhaps in two years. But if we go as fast as we do now, that's not gonna happen to us. The ratio between pension and net salary in the Republic of Slovenia is as follows: 57% at the moment. Let me tell you that in 2008 there were 67%, but in 1992 78% of the average wage was in Slovenia. A little comparison, I have also said recently, that in Austria there is an average pension of about EUR 1,000 800, and in Slovenia we have EUR 620. Why am I saying this? To tell you another comparison – the share of pensions in gross social product is 12.6 per cent in the European Union, 14.5 per cent in Austria and 9.8 per cent in Slovenia. I am concerned about the proportion of pensions in the gross social product that is falling and the number of pensioners is constantly increasing. In 1999 there were 476 thousand 439 and in 2018 there were about 620 thousand. The number of pensioners has risen by 30 percent after the share of pensions in the gross social product has decreased by 19 percent. Let him understand who wants and knows. I don't understand. We believe that wages are too high compared to other countries in the European Union, and the belief that the economy is more taxed than in comparable countries is the same. You know, that's not true. The total European Union wage tax is 43 per cent, in Austria 50 per cent, interesting as well as 43 per cent in Slovenia. So what we're saying, what entrepreneurs are telling you, economists are telling you a lot of times, it's not true. Now perhaps I would like to say something about another area, this is the demographic fund. This demographic fund will have no effect even if it is now adopted, rather than for 15-20 years. But this is essential if we are to maintain the level of pensions for those who will then be retired. No, it's not, dear colleagues, for us who are or you who will be retired tomorrow. It's about those who will be retired in 20 years. And if we don't set it up, then it can happen to us that that generation then they won't have decent pensions, or they'll have to solve things in some other way. We'd like some of you to sell us an empty jacket. We don't agree with that. We want a normal bag, where there will also be some capital in this bag. But we can't agree that someone would like to talk us into some amount of dividends. That's not working. If there is no jacuzzi, there will be no solution, and if there is no solution, there will be great problems in 20 years. And there's something else about long-term care. I think we've been talking about long-term care for two or three mandates. We all know and feel that we must find the right solution for this area. Many older people, especially from rural areas, want to live their autumn life at home for as long as possible, but are not able to provide basic life functions. They actually need help to provide basic life functions. And that's exactly the question we're talking about in long-term care. The biggest problem with this is money, as my friend Duck would say, money is not or we don't know where to find it or we don't want to find it, we don't want to find the right solution. We will all have to work together, we cannot rely on just one source here, there must be an appropriate number of resources in order to get there. So let us all work together to push those who have the task of preparing it, not to send it to each other from one ministry to another ministry and when it will be. I don't agree with that. That's why I'm gonna say this in the end. All those who say that older people can't afford housing in nursing homes. It's true, because there's no room, it's a great sadness. Sometimes we talk about young people, and young people, which is also right and their housing issues, are right, but at the same time we need to talk about the need for older people to have room in their homes for older people, and we need to ensure that. Unfortunately, in 2005 the last home of the elderly was built in Slovenia. With 4-5 million we can only build one home, that's the reality. In this area, we need to make a certain move in the future; whether we are going to do these things with the rebalans or in any other way, an appropriate shift must be made in this particular area. But none, none of our elders, will be left without housing in their homes. If it does not have sufficient resources, contributions shall be made in accordance with the order in which they are to be made. However, if they fail, they are not able to survive their parents, but a local community will be established and adequate money will be given to pay for the accommodation of the elderly. That's how I hold it, and I think some people are even sneezing at me, so that's what I'm saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We'll make one move now, too. And by that, I hereby give the floor to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure, on behalf of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I would only like to speak with you about Mr Cigler's comment, which is unfortunately not in the Chamber right now. I believe Mr. Ciegler has commented on the price of the 3rd development axis. I object to such claims that they are variants that could be four times cheaper. Once again, I would like to point out that variants that are not produced at the documentation level, which would be comparable to the documentation produced for the chosen version, cannot be compared. That is all I want to point out is that such statements are harmful and are not supported by arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. We only have one problem. We would probably get a replica of it, but now there is no Member of Parliament. I therefore suggest that someone informs the Member of how Mrs State Secretary said that she would be able to respond. Let's move on. Mr Jani Ivanuša has the floor, prepare for Mrs Matey Udovč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u88	Good evening to all of you! After all, I didn't mean to make a sound about the budget, but still, some things were born to me when I listened to all the interlocutors. So many numbers we've heard today that it's just a headache if it's all the way it is. If I want to go through the budget, I'm six hours short, but I won't take that much, and it doesn't belong to me. I'd say that, what's good is we hear that there are two record budgets ahead of us 2020, 2021. The only good thing about these budgets is that they will have a surplus. It's the only good thing. As far as we can see, where we turn in this loving country, every segment of the country, whether it's health care, whether it's pensioners, whether it's the army, the police, or everything else; it's all sort of a problem or an irregular situation. In addition to 171 000 public sectors, this should work this way, but nothing works. The only thing that's my point is, if I personally were to make a budget, I would suggest a completely different, much lower expenditure. I really have a problem with these record-breaking expenses, which the minister himself somehow doesn't hold back or even try to control. I would say, however, that it will be very difficult for the future finance minister to curb this expenditure, because if the revenues that are somehow expected in the future are reduced, only then will the results of record budgetary expenditure be felt. But I'm interested in two things about this: the Secretary of State for Finance is not here right now, but okay. We have one thing that came through on Friday to the Finance Committee, that's just these loving averages or for someone who doesn't like it. Yet, we have heard how much the congregations are receiving, how much they need to give by law to use these averages. Of the 2.2 billion, a billion and a half go into essentially just the assured consumption already a little bit further. The reality is with the budgets, and I will say this again, that spending will be 100 per cent, because it is recorded, written down. However, what will come on the revenue side is the question whether this will follow, as stated; it is said, the revenue for 2020 415 million and for 2021 657 million revenue. Of course, every honor to the economy and to the one who creates it. However, I would like to return to this matter, which was voted on Friday for the budget or for these averages, an average increase of 140 million per year. I believe the minister said the matter is now out of line. That's where one cockerel came in, I'd say, at home. But I wonder if we have on the revenue side 415 million surpluses guaranteed – well, guaranteed, we will see if this will show time – and 657 for 2022. Or, according to the local word, people understand us because this is too complicated for us here, or is not possible from these surpluses essentially this difference, according to the local word, to refuse, will remain 257 million 2020 and 517 million for 2021, if we refuse these revenues, which would be reduced or surpluses, which would be deducted due to averages for the municipalities. I wonder if it's so possible or not possible, or if this professionally does not go together – I don't know. That's what I'm interested in. She's not exactly a secretary of state, and I'd like to hear her answer. That's what I'm interested in. But she said that by returning government debt, credit ratings would hold or rise — I didn’t hear her because she was quieter. We're wondering if we're going to be in debt now for 2020-2021? I didn't understand why we now need such a good credit rating. If that were to happen, if these averages were to be deducted from surpluses, I wonder if I would have any credit ratings for this. And, of course, if we're planning another assignment. That's my question, because the coalition put amendments on average. So they basically went with the same numbers on what was voted on Friday to go with the same numbers to reduce what was voted on Friday. That's what I'm interested in. It says: Is it possible that this goes from surplus to surplus? Of course, if we're going to be in debt. But apparently I won't get an answer now because I don't see the secretary of state. This is my dilemma, and I'm wondering if I can get an answer to that. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You've given quite a question to the government's representatives. The magnetogram will be available within ten to fifteen minutes and I ask both representatives of the Government to inform the Secretary of State who will join us on this issue. I believe she'll answer. Let's move on. You have the floor, Mrs Matei Udovč, prepare Mr Jan Mahnic. Madam Ambassador, the minute is yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. All those present who maintain the pace. Today we could say that the year is around and, like every year at the same time this year, we also face budgetary challenges. There's been a lot of talk today, and I hope I won't repeat myself, but I could start this way, if not today, when we live in a time of conjunction. I don't know when we're gonna stick to the fiscal rule. This is the time when we can, it is the only time we can actually pay off a few debts from past years, not even more and more in the time of fat cows than some recommend or propose. That is why I am concerned about the statements made by some fellow Members, as I have already pointed out in the Committee on Finance, from which it is clear and the power to understand that we would rather deal with the abolition of the fiscal rule in the Constitution than rather dealing with how we will increase economic growth, how we will increase revenue in the state treasury. And if we look at it, we're lucky to have a different picture this year. Much more optimistic than in recent years. The activities and actions of the previous government, the more efficient economy and the general state of public finances have an optimistic effect and make decisions easier when adopting the budget. And I rhetorically ask myself, is that true? I would not hope to argue that budget makers are likely to face additional problems at the time of fat cows. All users aim to capture or correct, or correct, the injustices suffered in the past, in past periods and in the future, and would like to ensure better financial conditions for future times of recession or lower economic growth. However, as I see in practice, even with the amendment being tabled, it does not go so easily. All stakeholders, all Members, like all citizens, have one priority basket of our own, what we would like to have if we had the opportunity to influence this: to provide appropriate premises for museum depots, mountain railways, blemish rails, second track, third development axis, possibly the completion of the Hotemage-Britoff bypass, which we have heard this year, that this is the longest unfinished project. Maybe schools, sports infrastructure, education, the rehabilitation of wild landfills, the construction of homes for pensioners – we really wonder which of these is most important. What's the priority? Each participant has his own wish, and every participant seems to have something important to do with it. So true, the budget is a thing that is very difficult to do even in a time of conjuncture, when we have enough money and when we can say that we can do almost anything, but that is not possible. Moreover, we would still be in debt at this point, and I do not support this because we ourselves do not know whether we can be self-critical, or we cannot live without additional debt even at the time of the conjuncture. Therefore, I am pleased to point out that I am pleased to have the fiscal rule enshrined in the constitution. In fact, the budget must be adjusted during the period of convergence by removing restrictions from previous periods. On the other hand, we need to be development-oriented – it needs to be geared towards proactive action in future periods, which I see is true. It must work proactively when a lower economic growth is expected or when the economic crisis emerges. In short, we have a lot of work to do and a decision to take the right measures to remain a social and legal country that will be friendly to all citizens. The draft budgets were prepared on the basis of the framework for the preparation of the budgets of the 2020 sector until 2022, approved by the National Assembly in April. They include fiscal rules and assessments and forecasts of developments in the macroeconomic environment. The figures in the budget themselves are impressive, exciting and even record-breaking in certain parts. I will not repeat them because we have heard them many times today, and I believe we will hear them today. At first glance, the budgets are model, not only do they respect the fiscal rule, but they even show a half-billion-dollar surplus of budgetary revenue over expenditure. Really, just to say hello and support! Whether it is a historical budget in amounts or not – this is not important in this context. More importantly, the whole budget structure is based on a variable assumption such as projected economic growth and projected tax inflows. This, of course, is on the revenue side. With the expenditure side, we ourselves know what it is like – when we meet with various rebalans during the year, including possible adoption of new amendments at this regular session, this positive picture in the budget can change at a moment's notice. And this picture, which we say is good today, can become very bad for the country. As has already been said, the quality and effectiveness of our budgets depend on other factors in the wider economic environment. We depend on a global and European economy that is slowly cooling down, climate change resulting from various natural disasters and a number of other factors. I draw attention to the level of economic growth because it is assessed by different actors and its forecasts are quite variable, so we should not be overly concerned and fall asleep in laurels, taking into account all this. The budget documents show priorities. These are: development, social, wages, security, education, science. However, if we look a little bit at the budget structure itself, we can see that most of the funds are for so-called legal obligations, only a very small part of the funds remain available to us. A third of the expenditure will be earmarked for other domestic transfers, including remittances to municipalities, public funds and agencies, followed by funds for public servants' salaries, social contributions and various transfers. From a programmatic point of view, most money will be spent on education and sport, social security, pension security, transport and transport infrastructure, public debt servicing and defence and protection over the next two years. Compared to this year, however, the funds for science and the information society, education and sport and for defence and protection are the most increasing. In doing so, we must find that this is the highest level of expenditure in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia so far, which should enable us to pursue progress in priority areas and at the same time the medium-term balance of the budget. I would not like to go into specific things because there are too many of them because we have already heard many of them today, but I would like to stress that I am pleased with the Government's decision to increase the housing fund's funding at the level of EUR 13 million. A deliberate increase in the assets of the fund is necessary in order to enable it to build the necessary dwellings and, in the long term, to ensure a quality stay for the population, with particular emphasis on young people, older people and vulnerable groups. If I return only to the two amendments that are proposed coming from Gorenjska, I would just like to define myself – this is the Bled bypass, for which I will vote against it, since it has been made clear by the representatives of the ministries that Bled will start to build, but not all the land is yet secured and because not all the land is provided, these resources are still unnecessary in this budget. As for the reconstruction of the Jesenice-Kranj railway line, we have heard today that the State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure has stressed that they will approach the rehabilitation at the same time as the tunnel will close. I believe this and have already foreseen funds for 2020 with internal redeployments. I believe the Secretary of State, so I will not support this amendment. Thank you very much. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you, Your Honor, for your discussion. Now, honourable Members, we have three more registered. You're the first Mr. Jean Mahnic, prepare for Mr. Jože Lenart. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Mr Franc Jurša said well earlier when he said: "I also welcome today's guests" and pointed to the government. So the government is a guest here. The government is a guest in the House of Parliament; a house that is home to the Assembly of State and the Council of State; and if you are a guest in a house, then you behave appropriately to the hosts. The Minister of Finance is also a guest. And if the Minister of Finance comes here as a guest in a house that approves the budget, he says: "If you support the amendments, I will not sign such a budget. If you support the amendments, I do not intend to be a finance minister anymore." Yeah, look, then let him back off! And who is some finance minister to tell parliament how to vote? I hope that this national assembly, now that it is possible to have a slightly different relationship after the exit of the Left, will also accept some amendment to finally put this Parliament on its feet, for itself, and to say that we are Members of the National Assembly. Not that some finance minister here will be talking about what we can vote on, what we can confirm and what we cannot confirm. Every budget sees it as it sees it. However, the priorities are certainly different. As I have looked at it, I cannot be surprised that some, including the Secretary of State, say that our third priority is security in this budget. The secretary of state even said it was justice that ensured security. How justice provides security, please teach me, but depending on how it works, it poses an even greater threat. Let's see how much this is about the police. Above all, my colleague Prebil was talking about how we're going to modernise the police. Look, the police are getting 10 million more than last year. And let someone tell me what investments were like and what was being bought, how the Slovenian police modernised last year. And what it's going to be like now that it gets 10 million euros more. There was talk about uniforms, but for 10 million euros you Slovenian police will not be able to modernise. It is interesting, though, that virtually no one has mentioned how they increase as a percentage, not as a defense, not as a science – do you know who is the most practical one? Owls! You raise owls from 14 million in about 2021 to 19 million euros. So, practically for half as much as the Owl currently has. What's under these items? When you ask if it's equipment, if it's any particular thing, Owl's as mysterious as ever and they don't want to say. Unless the Prime Minister has any more friends to hire, but they don't cost you $5 million. I also wonder, Secretary of State, why such a promotion for the Owl. You are also talking about pension reform, so-called reforms, some of the corrections proposed to bring more pensions to all citizens and citizens. At the same time, for the next two years, €40 million is lower for pensions. So, given that the economy is already cooling down with us, given that you're going to raise pensions with PPIZ, how can it be that the pension spending side is then falling by around EUR 30 million to EUR 40 million? Traffic and road infrastructure. For investment and construction of roads from 172 million to 103 million. Current maintenance and what is necessary remains at approximately the same level, otherwise the DRSI ranges from 272 million to 206 million. It is said that the body in charge in Slovenia is in charge of the renewal of road infrastructure, and in particular that it is also building a new one to allow citizens and citizens safe routes wherever they go. The secretary of state says we're putting in more for security because more for justice. No! No! But I would understand you if I said, here, we give more to safety, because we also give more to better road conditions. I'm afraid that's not the case. Investing in sports. Take a look at the 2020 budget. Sports infrastructure €3.6 million. In Gorenja village in Poljanska valley, we opened a gym on Friday, which we financed ourselves. Up to half a million Eko was a fund, and 4.5 million were about a congregation. For one modern, really orky sports hall. Tell me how you will co-finance the construction of sports infrastructure for €3.6 million in one year, but you will go there to the Congress Market to paint with athletes when they wear the medals back. But these athletes start smoking in sports halls when they're young, and you don't allow them to be built. And in order for a congregation to build more with its own means, it needs — what? He needs more money. How can the congregation receive more funds? Over the higher average. And when this higher average goes through on Friday, says the minister, if that's how it's gonna go, I'm not gonna sign it, but I'm gonna go. I hope we are voting on this higher average on Thursday. Even if an amendment does not go through, the municipalities will be tasked with constantly new and new tasks, but at the same time not to give the average of what the municipalities need, and we have a prime minister, who was the mayor of two mandates. If anyone, he should understand how this matter works, it is indeed a mockery out of every common sense. As you will ensure greater national security, Madam Secretary of State, if the Ministry of Defence is the only thing I welcome here, is that 11 million euros is more for protection and rescue, that is about the number we are already approaching, which when we were – colleague Lenart was also there – when we were visiting the URSZR, he said that some 50 million euros are needed for some operation. At least that's positive here. But look, one is the security and rescue segment, and the other is the military defence, where you only spend 15 million euros more, and not for the operation, education and personnel of the Slovenian Army, but on one of the purchase programmes, and then when you look at it, all things move away. All things are moving. The average battalion battle group for NATO – in 2023 should be the first to be built, the first purchases of armoured men are foreseen for 2023 and 2024 respectively. What will they buy if nothing goes through? Don't tell me there's gonna be security on this. Adapting to climate change – one of the items, €40 million. There'll be contracts again, there'll be studies again, there'll be subsidies again. In short, for certain people who are likely to be close to some government parties, especially some NGOs will be able to serve well on this account and, as always, do what is done. Once we have Futura, once we have access, once we have SD, once we have SMC, now it's going to be some fevd here inside of this to fight climate change. I am one of those who does not say that climate change is not, for sure, something is happening, although listening to scientists on the one hand, on the other hand to politics, on the one hand, on the other, but I think it is some normal process, some natural process – certainly what kind of thing we encourage, certainly what kind of thing we reject, but not all as self-evident as one or another say – but above all climate change is good business. This business is now also indicated in the budget; red is new green or green is new red, however. In short, this budget could be significantly better and, above all, it will be an interesting vote on the amendments. Some of you here are very much in favour of abolishing the thefts, so you'll have to fight for the votes within the constituency. I would very much consider voting on the amendments that are from my constituency. Mrs Udovč says I will vote against the money for the mountain railway because I believe the secretary of state that they will do so. What would be better than – if only one list in the electoral unit – two days earlier on Facebook to give this video, pay 100 or 200 euros, target Gorenjska and – who will elect her if she spoke here, I will not support the amendment for the railway because I believe in the ministry. In short, keep this in mind; especially those who so advocate the abolition of the thefts. Because, as they once said, our nation is feeding our evidence, and before the elections you will receive a portion of the portion, especially on these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you also for your debate, Mr Member. Dear Members, we have only two more in this round. You have the floor, Mr. Jože Lenart, to prepare Mr. Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Somehow I decided to come by again. Given that we are returning to a particular issue that has already been clarified several times today. Everything today revolves around how to divide revenue from the budget, which, of course, depends on the performance of the economy. I repeat: the economy is the one that gives more or less; in the last three years, thank God, more and we are coming to a surplus. With great prudence, we have set up these two budgets to reach certain reserves. And once again; they all got more, some less, some little more, others a little less. But there are also exceptions that have been given less. For example, as finances, it has already been said nicely today, due to the reduction in indebtedness and also to the redistribution of lower interest or cheaper debt. Many of you today have highlighted the problem of taxes that taxes are too high. In the first debate, I tried to discuss or discussed that taxes should not, in principle, be a problem. Taxes make us free, that's a fact. The more developed countries, the higher they have taxes. It's a fact, it's from statistics, from all the reports we're looking at. Those countries with high taxes are rich countries. But of course, it's not that easy, it's the right relationship between productivity that we have to achieve and taxes. But those who are richer then have the chance to get richer. We talked about this earlier about transferring their activities, especially those where the added value is lower, then using cheaper labour to exploit these countries and then through transfers and facilitations to those countries where they have this production, then transferring them to their country and then filling the cash register at home after high taxes. That's the success. And we have to follow that. Slovenia is probably no longer one of those less developed, but we are following somewhere on the average of Europe, and it is also natural that we will not reduce taxes in this respect, but we are setting up a mirror, including investors from the outside, to leave something in our cash register. That's a fact. But they still have a lot of spares. If we only look at Austria, our wages are exactly half lower than Austria, and this is already a lot for them. However, so that those who have production in our country do not pay taxes, but it is simply a pity; or how should I express myself. For example, this mini tax reform, which has set a lower limit of 7 per cent – that is the minimum that we can do to get something – is why we will not drive any away. That's a fact. That's what we're saying. We're looking for a higher added value. Once again – what is the added value? 60 to 65 percent are wages, all of which come from contributions. Income — this is a full medical cash register, a pension register. Of course, of course, then the problem with us is that we have taxes on wages, that is to say these contributions, slightly higher than Europe knows, but not all of them. But we do have extremely low capital taxes. But if we look together, we're still under the average. So taxes can't be a problem. The point is that we still have to follow up, raise taxes on capital and try to make contributions a little easier, that is to say on wages. Once again, our economy has set itself a very good goal: this added value in Slovenia, which is now around €45 000, to raise to $60,000. The goal is 2025, which is probably almost impossible, but if we could all step together, all pull the wagon in one direction, we could probably succeed – but we will not succeed in increasing the profits so much that we can raise the taxes so much. This will work if we know how to attract, including with domestic capital, activities where we achieve very high added value. Just for a moment, for a moment, as I've already said in this National Assembly. Krka reaches an added value to the employee of 120 000. That's three times today's average. Gorenje, as our radical company, which employs several thousand employees, unfortunately, reaches an added value of only 31 000, good 31 000. And that's still strong to the average. Now I'm going to challenge my colleague, Jozet Horvath, when we've talked about this more than once. The wall is gone, but Mure is no longer because it has reached an added value of 20 possibly up to 25 000 and with such activities you cannot build the development of Slovenia. We dragged them for a long time, saved them for a long time, probably even in this national convention, because we were thinking differently, but unfortunately we couldn’t. In Europe, there is probably no such activity as competition from the Far East overruns this. Just one more comparison. How does Austria reach four thousand healthcare funds per citizen and Slovenia two thousand, although it has lower wage contributions? Of course, because once it has higher wages and this gives a successful economy, activities that have high added value. With these four thousand euros per capita, their health is completely different from ours. With us, there is a shortage everywhere, and in the end, there are more outpatients than in Austria. This is another problem that we also need to explore from another social point of view why. I don't believe we Slovenians are sicker once than the Austrians. But I would like to touch another area. We are in the European Union, the European Union is very much concerned that it gives additional resources to the less developed in its family. That's a fact, we know why. In order to develop this market, the gross added value in the whole of the European Union should then be increased so that these markets expand so that sales can increase. These are the facts. And we in Slovenia, I think, I'm sure we're doing too little. Look, they run the southeast and the central Slovenian region. The South East reaches even an added value of over 55,000 – and here I now want to challenge my colleague Horvat – the central Slovenian 50 000. On average, we said it was 45 grand. But the urban region, which reaches the least, is now approaching 35,000, a mammal, a coastal-inland region and a subterranean region below 40,000. This is said to be the differences that give us this potential for additional development, not only all Ljubljana and around it, but also that the whole of Slovenia should develop equally. We're back to where it was so low in the past. Yes, of course, there was no real industry in Prekmurje, but what was done was that labour intensive one that had very low added value. It can't be a development, it can't be a prosperity. I in Koroška have some advantage in this sense at least that we have this difficult industry of iron, TAB Mježica and also partly Lek, and we only exceed the 40,000, but we are still below the average. This is not known enough, and it is likely to bring other problems in view of this activity, since it is likely that our area is burdened with waste and with these matters. I'll give you another case. Years ago, when I was working in the wood industry in Koroška, which is now practically gone, the Iverboard Factory. Three factories were in Slovenia. Through the Slovenian Development Society, everything was going on and we didn't know how to agree to bring all the squirrels under one roof and rationalize and compete with foreigners. Everyone competed for themselves, and today it all fell apart. In 2002 – I will tell you a short story, really. I brought the Chinese over to a colleague who wanted to buy 80 percent of the production of these Ivy Tablets in order to drive to China. The price was set for an ex-copper. And what happened? This sales price dropped 25 percent on transport — except for China, sorry. But this transport was so complex that the cost of transport was 25 per cent of Koper-China and 75 per cent of Koroška-Koper. Does that tell you? This is what Jože repeatedly stresses how much more expensive each mile is. When Jozet and I have to come to Ljubljana, we use it, sometimes I know I've spent eight hours, here and back, don't we, when we've been working a hell of a hole there, but Trzin, I don't know what else. Today, we spend four hours, half the time — all those who are far away. How much more costs do we have against those in this environment who practically jump from the job to the other end of the meeting and then know that this is all an additional cost and an impact on competitiveness. These are the stories, and so I damn well wish that this third development axis, which is not – some already think it is just Koroška. The third development axis takes place from the Austrian border in Koroška to the Croatian border in Dolenjska and will link all of these regions which need related development in order to get some added value in this area. These are facts and we need to think about them. I think the budget itself has too little emphasis on this and we need to think about it. That is why I want this budget, because it has been repeatedly said that 95 per cent are immediate legal items, only 5 per cent is the one we will give more to, and where we will give more – because it is also important, in development, in education and so on – that these infrastructure projects such as the second track, that we will not drive 35 kilometres per hour, that all investors or Europe and those who want to come to Europe will avoid us because of this route, because you can't go anywhere, that we will know these 20, 30 kilometers of track and that, hopefully, in 20 years, we will even be able to build a development axis and more. These are the facts. And, of course, the second tunnel of Karavanka, because we know what the traffic jams are in these areas. This is what I think is such an investment that we should go completely from the budget that is now touching through these guarantees, that this matter should not be limited, but should be developed here in order to move forward. I don't know who's telling us that this thing isn't economic, that it's not going to work out. I can't imagine how the whole world of work doesn't know what kind of fast trains that drive 400 kilometers an hour, I don't know what route, and we can't figure out where we're going today 35 kilometers an hour. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, thank you to my precious colleague, Jozet Lenart. I'm always happy when someone talks about Prekmurje in a positive light. You have this advantage, Comrade Lenart, that the Prime Minister listens to you too, I'm sorry not. But as far as taxes are concerned, the issue is that we probably cannot copy some tax solution, tax legislation, from any country — not Austria, not Germany, not Switzerland, and so on, because our environment is unique, as in Austria it is unique and so on. However, what I said about the speaker here today is that taxes must be those that encourage an individual, an entrepreneur. So, taxes must also be stimulating, although this is difficult to understand, but, yes, taxes are mandatory, I agree, but they must be such as to stimulate and, ladies and gentlemen, yes, the budget is an economic and political act. It's an economic-political act. This does not mean, of course, that only economists and politicians can speak of it, in fact, that is tanning all layers of the population. That's a fact. Of course, here comes our opinion, I hope that you will respect it and that we, who now have a slightly different opinion as a coalition, will not be labeled irresponsible policy. As today, and as early as yesterday, we were called upon to be responsible, so that we would not accidentally be held accountable, Mr Sarec said somehow, and wanted to clearly discipline the coalition Members. [[…]] And now New Slovenia, a Christian democratic environment, comes into this debate, not only looking at expenditure, but also looking at the revenue side. We're here now before what I was talking about. I would hardly expect Mr Šarec to say a little more today or, for the last time, to acknowledge the Slovenian economy. These are employers and employees, workers. So that no one thinks that New Slovenia always forgets about the workers. That's not true! Once again and a hundred and a thousand times: we advocate a model of the social market economy. This is not a socialist model we reject. And it's not a model of some social capitalism that we really reject. I like directors, owners of family businesses and others who say my biggest capital is workers. Great! My employees have no right to buy me a yacht. It is true that between so many and so many executives, owners are also some kind of barabbas. Yes, of course they are. We have organs for that. If they're tax evasion, let's take them! If they don't pay their suppliers, they don't pay their workers, but they have a chance, because our law allows them to shut down the company, and tomorrow they open another. Colleagues and colleagues, let's change the law so it doesn't work. That's why we're here. Now, as far as taxes are concerned. I'm glad we can spend, and that's what I said today. If I look at the time interval 2018-2021. Budget expenditure will increase by around €800 million at this time interval. Is that right? Here. In view of the assessment of the impact of the tax changes in the supplementary draft budgets, it can be found that the average annual actual impact of the tax burden is less than 3 per cent of the increase in budget expenditure between 2018 and 2021. Or simplified, we have therefore increased budget spending by 100 monetary units and reduced taxes by only three monetary units. So, really, this tax reform was cosmetic. Someone has already said today that, as far as the European Union or the OECD is concerned, we are somewhere on the average. Yeah, we didn't! And my colleague Jozet and I know exactly why Austria is a better tax environment, why our people from Koroška and from Pomur are going to Austria and they're angry at me, at this country, because they have to pay a lot of income here. Why? Simply because there is an annual tax base of EUR 11,000 taxed at zero rates. Why did we, New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, go last November, exactly one year ago, to a change in income and say that general relief should be at the level of the poverty risk threshold at the annual level? What's this one worth now? Almost 8 grand. We said we'd make it easier. Because, I repeat, it is not moral, ladies and gentlemen, for the country to tax those people, the citizens' income it needs to survive, to buy clothes, food, housing, wood and so on. That's 8,000 euros for a single-member household. You told us, look, look, it's not going to work, you're going to break the budget, that's 500 million. Of course, where will 500 million be left? People. What are people gonna do with that money? They're gonna spend it! What does that mean, they spend? Yeah, at least VAT will come back to the tax office. And I also have to touch myself because it upsets me, you know, even today on the board, and it upsets me to discuss the fiscal rule. Why? We were in the opposition in the previous term, but we did our best and we listened to the Minister, Dr. Marble, what he wanted to tell us. We have insisted on the Swiss formula that some countries have and is worse than ours, which Marble calls European. Someone said we had the worst fiscal rule. We don't have the worst fiscal rule. Someone also said that they would throw the formula out in order to describe this rule, yes, but the budget must be balanced. If you ask 90 Members what balance means, you will get 90 fantastically different answers. It is therefore right that the mathematical formula is that there is an equation or a label for smaller or larger ones. Someone also said what I was surprised he didn't understand the fiscal rule. Look, it's not a nominal surplus or a structural surplus. That's a big difference. We can now have almost half a billion surpluses for 2020, but we have a structural deficit. What is the structural deficit or what is the structural budget balance? This is the budget balance, which excludes the effects of the economic cycle and other one-off effects. This is a little different than revenue minus expenditure. I'm not an economist, and I'm not a professor, we have some professor in the government to explain this. Somebody said we'd spend it all, but we can't, because we have a fiscal rule. Look, it's poisoning the Slovenian public. Poisoning. And yet, ladies and gentlemen, there is no problem with the formula, even if it were Swiss. Do you know where our problem is that we're going to spend some time mourning it? It's a bank hole. That's where we lost, round, five billion. How much is that? This is half the budget of the state of Slovenia, for example, for 2020. This is actually ours, I hope to say, a 10-year developmental backlog. And that's the problem. I am sorry that this story has not yet been concluded, despite the well-managed parliamentary commission of inquiry by Dr Logar, colleague of Logar. But why isn't it closed? The judicial authorities have done nothing. Which one of the bankers is sitting today? Maybe one, and this one -- more like that, no. Look, here's the problem. So we have events that we can watch now on the previous Thursday or the previous Thursday on the Target, because in fact the bank hole is continuing and there are a variety of bad guys working through the banks because there are — on TV we have seen — quite a few people who should immediately be cuffed and taken to where they belong. This debate is also very topical – Banka Slovenije. We said all the time, Banka Slovenije, where were you when some were getting credit. For example, at UniCredit not 40 million, in one week, at the Ljubljana Bank, then completely state-owned – immediately 40 million! Dudes split their loans, and we all pay for it. The whole country pays for it. What's the problem now? Normally, the Bank of Slovenia must be a regulator and must carry out this function. The problem is that in fact there are so many and so many people who are creditless. Now I don't want to be a populism, like some people who say 300,000 people are creditless. Yeah, wait a minute, we're going back to the poverty risk threshold. How many people today live below the risk of poverty? 13.3%. That's 268. Of course they're not creditworthy. And another 16.2 percent, which is 326 thousand people, are exposed to social exclusion. Of course they're not, unfortunately they're not creditworthy. We have a big problem here. Mr. Sarec said, look, he was the mayor, which must be some rich experience. Among other things, he said that raising averages could cause problems. Of course I can understand that. Yes, it can, but it's not necessary. But it's not necessary. If Lenart and I are from rural areas, I believe, as well as he, that every single euro that comes more would be about €70 per citizen per year more, so that every euro will be turned over twice before they spend. I'm just asking, who was dealing with the last financial perspective? The municipalities. Why? Because they had projects. Who's gonna solve this? We are all saying that we are not doing well to draw European funds out of hand, perhaps now the Minister from Austria will come, has Austrian experience, but perhaps now the matter will go away. Let's just let it go. It's not dark now. But even now, the municipalities have projects ready, and if they raise their average now, they'll do so much better. Not to mention now the agreement for the development of the regions. Since the municipality simply has no money and is also not creditable, does not get credit, I tell you, does not get any project to carry out and then gets money from the state. Digitalisation – already on the Committee on Finance, when we first discussed the budget, I somehow asked the Minister or expected him to tell me how much the state has rationalised. Ladies and gentlemen, those of us who were once in the economy, you know, the pressure on costs was permanent, the Director kept asking you how much costs you would reduce, how much you would rationalize, how much you would automate and so on and so forth. Unfortunately, for several years we have not seen this in the country, but we can; precisely with simplified procedures and with computerised procedures. Why do you have to, I don't know, order a passport, travel somewhere to some administrative unit and so on? Why? But in some segments of digital society and digital economy, we are very good. We're very good. The problem is that there is actually no body, some government service to coordinate all this digitalisation of society and also the economy. Today a friend was at Brdo pri Kranj, where the Go digital conference took place and where the map was also shown, I know you can't see, with the value of the global cybersecurity index. What is this global cybersecurity index? This is a global cyber security index – about security I am talking about – which is a reliable information that measures the commitment of cybersecurity countries at global level and so on and so forth. We're the white fox, so we're among the worst. The Balkan countries are with us. This index is, I don't know if it tells you anything, from 0 to 39. Not to mention what the optical network we have – some excellent, sometime, on Goričko, for example, if we are back in Prekmurje, you do not need to use your mobile phone at every point. It has also been said that these two budgets are in line with the fiscal rule that Mr Krkuk said everything is okay. Look – that's not true. No, it's not. The Fiscal Council points out that the state budget proposal for 2020 and 2021 represents the continuation of fiscal policy management without a comprehensive set of policies designed to adequately ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances, in particular in relation to population ageing and so on and so on. Several points have been pointed out by the Fiscal Council, where the matter is not right. Now I don't gloat about it, but I don't spread the facts that the fiscal world unlocked or burned the budget because it didn't exist. The fact is that Slovenia is somehow like it's trapped in a time machine. Why am I saying this? Because from Brussels, the European Commission, more precisely, which is ours, Slovenia, we have a Commissioner there or we will have a Commissioner. They've been sending some recommendations for years that we just don't make. Now, whether we ignore them or we don't realize them, it's not political will, whether there are too many parties in the coalition or whatever, there's always some answer. But the result of such a relationship is that we have a specific weight in the institutions of the European Union equally nothing. And behind that, I stand by what I say. The economy, as has been said, New Slovenia, a Christian democratic environment, also sees those who create budgetary inflows. If we are doing well, if the economy is doing well, let's see – we politicians should see – that they have a reserve, then let's give them more oxygen, so that they can invest, we don't burden them with some stateless bureaucratic obstacles when they take 5 years to build a building permit for an additional production hall because they have orders. See, 2018, my heart plays when I read this data and I like to deal with these numbers. Last year we had over 146 000 companies, and there are also independent entrepreneurs. These 146 companies have generated more than €102 billion in revenue. 102 billion, fantastic figure, 10 times the budget. They've created a good 4 billion profits, the company's for making profits. Sometimes someone, especially my esteemed colleague Micah Kordish says, here's the problem, too much profit. Well, I add that these same Slovenian companies don't matter what they are, but here they are, with us, they invested for 8 billion euros last year. Eight billion. If they paid VAT at a reduced rate for everything they bought and for services and so on, they covered interest costs – 750 million are interest costs for this public debt. Yes, as far as freedom is concerned, I very much like to say this, because Christian Democrats are looking at the image of a man, that is, the Christian image of a man, and here is freedom, the dignity of man and freedom, in fact, in the first place. Someone on Twitter told me, "You're not free, but who occupied you?" Because this gentleman doesn't really understand what freedom is. Freedom is also meant for taxes and so on and so forth. I cannot be happy if Slovenia, which has the fantastic human potential not to talk about the environment and so on, landed in 67th place in this year's report on the economic freedom of the world between 162 countries, where Venezuela lasts its seat. All neighbouring countries, including Hungary, Croatia, have overtaken us. I'm not going to explain it now. Everyone can read it for themselves. Why does it drag us down? Most of all is the country's problem and the rule of law problem that doesn't work. We're in 120th or lower. And there's something else that's bothering me, and I'm just finishing up. Look, I was surprised, and I greatly appreciate Minister Bertoncl as a businessman, a professor, although he says he is not a politician, but look, the minister is an eminent political function, and I could actually learn this in this year, even as an economist and as a professor, that he can't put ultimatums in front of the camera. The Minister of Finance of one country cannot say, but if this is not accepted, I will no longer be Minister tomorrow, or as he has already stated. Investors today stopped thinking if I paraphrased a little to invest in Slovenia. Why? Because in some ways he predicted possible political destabilisation. Colleagues and colleagues, I have been in the coalition before, when we supported the spending amendments, specifically by the Social Democrats, I think there are 23 million, and then we have achieved that the entire National Assembly has supported the budget. Do we know how to do that? I think it's too late to say it's over now, it's pasté. But not to take into account the opposition's proposals for a dozen quid, and you will not convince me that you want to cooperate with us. But if you think we just have to nod, I'll tell you that there will be no nods on New Slovenia's side, there won't be. Well, it's just that this policy isn't very cooperative, we want to connect, we want to build some bridges, but on the other hand, there's no foundation, and then always this connecting bridge collapses. Yes, the average of the municipalities. If the code is in the government, then the first minister understands what this means for the congregations, and if the government is unable to find 136 million somewhere, then the government is incompetent. It is true that the formula, such as that now counts on an average, is also true that the law states that congregations receive 54 percent of their income. How much did they get? They got 47. So, over the last few years, they've been fed. We have also said little, except for Comrade Polnar, I must say, the excellent president of the Committee on Finance, the first one warned that fine, the income will go down, the people will be left behind, we will round up 100 million – what does that mean? This means that about 54 million will fall out in the congregations. Therefore, if we are looking at purely accounting, this should be neutralised with a higher average. And foreign policy – yes, every policy should be responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a responsible policy if the Foreign Policy Committee comes up with a proposal – an internal document – so much and so much and so, new embassies open up there and there. She's not responsible because she doesn't have the money in the back, she doesn't have the human resources. That is why I am pleased and grateful to all those who supported the New Slovenia Amendment at the New Slovenia Amendment PDO to provide personnel, material and financial resources to implement the conclusions of the expansion and strengthening of the diplomatic-consular network. More investment in research and development – we are terribly lagging behind, dreadfully. Austria is 17 times more invested than we are. That's two years ago. If they were Sweden and if I were to weight, i would take into account GDP and the number of inhabitants, we should invest about 500 million in R & D. Unfortunately, that is not the case, and that is why my budget support will not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, please report. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, secretaries of state, we have been discussing the budget for quite some time today. But I would like to point out that we do have a record budget in the Republic of Slovenia. All of this should eventually inspire us positively. But it is today that we hear both from the left and from the right warnings and, as usual, when adopting the budget with the budget, we are never all satisfied. That's the way it is today. But compromises should be accepted in the budget and government priorities should be followed. As mentioned several times today, the Government's priorities are health, science, security and the economy. However, I can say with certainty that a number of individuals with this budget are not fully satisfied, but some will still not feel this record budget. Above all, here I expose the most vulnerable groups, such as pensioners, beneficiaries of disability benefits. Investments in education, culture, roads are still lacking and could still be listed here today. However, as I have already said, compromises must be accepted, a priority scale set and today we have the budget we have. It is also important to be aware of the warnings of the Fiscal Council. He's done his constitutional job well. He examined the budget in more detail, assessed the risks and made it clear to them what was good, and everyone in this Chamber today should also be aware of that. Even at the time of the draft budget, such as we have on the table today, the Fiscal Council has given these clear warnings, so here I raise the question – what would the Fiscal Council say today with regard to the adoption of the amendment on the Committee, regarding the average for the municipalities? It is true that the draft budget shows that the average is still not within the legal framework, but all these years, the average has increased, there have been positive trends, so I am still asked what the Fiscal Council would say on average. Personally, I want the stability of public finances, which must be effective, towards goals and, above all, towards people. It is therefore important that the budget is for the benefit of the people and also for the wider community. The budget cannot and must not be a struggle for the own interest of individuals, but also of client interests. The budget must follow all segments of our country. As I mentioned, indeed, there is still a problem with individual groups of people, they are still on the verge of despair when they cannot spend the month with the funds they receive. There's a lot of these people, they're still in debt -- and why am I talking about this today? Because there are many jobs when they are unable to pay either rent or electricity or heating, and many times not their basic necessities. And with the change made by Banka Slovenije by limiting credit to these most vulnerable groups, I absolutely cannot agree and such a measure is totally unacceptable. These small people who have leased loans in the past have not actually done so with the defeat of the country. This was the fault of others and then the regulator of Banka Slovenije did not do his job and it seems completely, once again, unacceptable that such debts have been incurred by individuals with names and surnames, which all taxpayers today pay or have already paid, with the recapitalisation of banks that have been imported by individuals with names and surnames, and should have been paid for these errors long ago. As we know, every budget always has advantages and weaknesses. There is a surplus in the budget over expenditure, which is good, €415 for 2020 and much more in 2021, but for 2021 there are only predictions. Nevertheless, when we look at this surplus, we ask ourselves whether it would not make sense to increase the investment potential in the cooling of the economy, because I mentioned that in the area of education, housing, infrastructure, science, building houses for the elderly, rebuilding cultural monuments, cultural heritage, we simply forgot or tightened our belts during the crisis. So it would be right to somehow relaunch these investments. In the budget, I note that in the field of health, additional funds are provided to reduce waiting periods of 8.5 million. However, as I mentioned yesterday in my question, you are rightly asking yourself whether waiting lines would be reduced due to increased investment in improving the health of citizens and citizens through various preventive measures. Because the reduction in waiting periods also reduces the cost of hospital absences and the multipliers also show up at other levels. We know that the high cost of medical care is a cashier’s absence, so it is really necessary to make every effort to reduce waiting periods. There are also funds of 5 million to improve the liquidity situation of public health institutions. We have already spent a lot of money in the past years, and we are already aware that we will not cover all the losses with funds, so this trend is expected to continue. This cost in this year's budget is significantly lower than it is, and I hope that we will finally prepare public health institutions in such a framework that these debts will no longer be easy and if there is overpayment of material, certain people will also start to respond. For what has been found in the previous term in the overpayment of veneers, various materials, is simply to be called upon by names and surnames to the responsibility of these people. Because this is where some euro is lost, which is needed in health care. Furthermore, I am pleased that additional medical resources are provided for the updating of equipment in hospitals. Although we are running out of money for the rehabilitation of hospitals, I would also like to point out a little bit about the local problem of the lungs of UKC Maribor. This investment is not in the budget, but a new location or renovation is urgently needed, as the current premises are no longer sufficient to meet the standards and not to treat the patient with dignity. It is true that at the time of the biggest crisis we saved, we strained our belts, we forgot our transport infrastructure, we forgot our infrastructure in our homes, we forgot our infrastructure, we forgot our health care, we left a lot of things behind. We have also heard a lot about supplementary health insurance today, for this is our promise to end supplementary health insurance. I would also like to see this come to an end, and to do so, based on the level of individual income. Because it is not acceptable for someone to pay a contribution of more than 10 percent to supplementary health insurance, while some who have substantially higher incomes do not pay two percent of their income. However, I would like to point out at this point that, when supplementary health insurance is abolished, the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act, as well as the transformation of the Health Insurance Office, will also have to be carried out in parallel. Because these things are absolutely necessary, and if we are looking at all these events in the last months, we simply see that we should have taken these steps years ago. Yes, Slovenia is becoming an ageing society, which urgently needs a law on long-term care, which will allow the elderly to stay as long as possible in their home environment so as not to be left to themselves. Today, many people are waiting for help at home, for help at home is increasing, and people simply do not get help when they urgently need it, or when their health situation is already such that it is necessary. Not to mention when it becomes so unsustainable that housing is needed. Today we do not have one single room or one free bed in the home of the elderly and this is indeed a major problem of the Republic of Slovenia. At this point, I want to point out that I've been talking to some people, I'm going to say, active older people. They're over 65 years old and ask what they're doing. Today they are enrolled on waiting lists in a home close to them, so that when it is needed — whether in 2, 3, 5, 10 years ’ time — they will be able to get a free place at home. For if this matter happens immediately, they simply stay somewhere and are helped by everyone in their best interests; so if they do, then I fear that the life of these people is very difficult. Today we have heard several times that we are wondering why social transfers are increasing. It should be pointed out that, in this mandate, we have released the measures of the Public Finance Balance Act and, in parallel, the increases in these items are also increasing. Even in the area of culture, the expectations of all of us are extremely high. I hope that there will be a cultural euro that will finally see the light of the world, which we have been talking about for several years, because we urgently need it. It is necessary to protect our cultural heritage, because foreign countries or our neighbouring countries are aware of this cultural potential they have, and are simply extremely beneficial. I hope that our ministers, who are walking around the world, will also learn something from this practice and move it into our health system. I must say that I am finally extremely pleased that the ministry and the key government have recognized that the western bypass of Slovenska Bistrica is a multiplier of economic growth. I have been exposing everything to the needs of this ring since I entered the National Assembly, that is, since 2014, and finally all my efforts have fallen to fertile ground. It is an extremely important investment that would relieve the center of Slovenske Bistrica, Partizanska cesta and also the centre of the old city centre. And as we have already heard, investment is vital to the development of Impol. New transactions with Samsung and BMW are promising and it is easy to cool down orders that each investment should be encouraged. I am pleased that in the framework of the parliamentary club, seven of us attended a visit to Impola, where we were presented with all production, good things that we could transfer to the ministry, we talked a lot, and again thank the Ministry very much to recognize that this is a good indicator of economic development for the future. I am less pleased with this – in particular, I will talk about the reconstruction of the road Ruta-Lovrenc-Pesek – because the budget document does not follow the signed agreement of August 2017. The entire value of the reconstruction investment is absolutely necessary, the total value is slightly less than 5 million, of which 3 million is a liability, but we are waiting for the municipality to be heard in the end to be able to include the part that is the burden of the local community in the budget. I have to say, a lot of things are in the budget itself. It is necessary to look at the budget in its entirety, and I have not processed it in its entirety, because this is not the purpose today either. Nevertheless, I can point out once again that the record budget, as we said, is an extremely large wish. Nevertheless, I must say that the investment potential is still underutilised. Perhaps we could think about a smaller surplus of revenue over expenditure and then start up investments that would drive economic development. But here I am not just talking about big investments, I am also talking about smaller investments and medium-sized investments, which also improve the economic growth and quality of life of people, and this would be extremely important when the economy cools down, and above all creates economic optimism, which plays an important role in economic decisions, both for people and for businesses. Finally, I must point out that the budget is well set, of course we could say that it could be better, but it is as it is. It is a set of compromises based on government priorities such as health, science, security and the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say that it is an interesting debate on a record budget, which, at least after those good 10 hours somehow, at least as far as I am concerned, follows the expected scenario. On the one hand, we have the opposition, which is all the way down, the budget is not development-oriented, there are ideas that should otherwise be set up, where more funds should be allocated, many ideas or proposals have been completely localized today, which at the end of the day is probably nothing wrong with it, as mentioned earlier, I think, colleague Mahnič, that at the end stage we are all also running in the environment from which we come. If I am honest, if I am completely honest, I would agree with a number of proposals, including the opposition, and I would like to support it if I were able to. The proposed budget is a major compromise of the minority government, the minority government, which for the first time in Slovenia has taken responsibility for leading this government. The minority coalition, which consists of this government, after a good year, I can say that from personal experience, in the first place is extremely tiring. Many meetings, day-to-day coordination, much more conversation, acceptance of a number of compromises, which may not even be so bad at the end of the day. However, these many compromises also cause friction, which we have in certain matters, when we need to step back or two, we have all the coalition parties sometimes have bigger, sometimes smaller problems. This is reflected, we do not even hide it, and the public can monitor it. I'm sorry that Levi has failed this effort and that they have decided to leave for the opposition. In the minority government, at least in my opinion, you can't just pick up those laws and those ideas that you like, and you have to take responsibility for measures that are not like. But this is, as I have mentioned many times, hard work — but I respect it, so they have made up their minds. I hope we can do it without them. I think I read an interesting article in the Journal about a month or two ago, where a journalist – I will try to get it together in two sentences – says that the purpose of joining a political party is somehow to take responsibility for running the country and to implement the political agenda. Waiting in the opposition for several mandates is for every foreign power. I see that this is what colleagues and colleagues in Novi Slovenije have learned. And the message they gave from Sunday’s convention is to see that if you want to be responsible and implement your program, you have to be in the government. So this is a decision that, of course, I welcome. The proposed budget, as I have already said, is somehow the product of all these facts that I have listed: compromises, minority governments, perhaps today I would add to the above-mentioned golden fiscal rule. However, we are increasing funds in most areas, but no one, probably not from Members, nor from Ministers who have received increased funds, is fully satisfied. The fact is that years of belt tightening and lack of resources have led to needs in a number of areas that are significantly larger than the current capacity, despite the fact that we already have a record budget, already repeatedly mentioned today. However, with this budget, we are somehow following these coalition commitments, not as much as I would have liked, but the reality, as I mentioned, is in harmonising, in reaching compromises. I will not comment specifically on the content of this budget itself. However, I would like to agree with those interlocutors who have pointed out today that there are still many challenges to some rational use of these public funds, that we still have many challenges, in particular to remind us of the many cases we have, corruption, public calls, all the problems we have with this, customerism. However, these are problems, respected colleagues and colleagues who are not only characteristic of Slovenia. This is what all countries are fighting for. But there are still a lot of reserves for us here to make more rational use of these public funds. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance also mentioned – I am thinking that two, three months ago, he sent one proposal or thought. Today he mentioned that after the public debt has been repaid and after meeting the Maastricht criteria in the peak, I don't know, I even think he said first in Europe. My proposal was, I think I have noticed that in this direction it is also thought when we talk about softening this golden rule, that it would probably be necessary for some degree – if I say so, to reduce slightly the repayment of this debt, which we have completely manageable in some normal quantities and, above all, in the fact that we lack development resources on the other hand. I welcome the Minister's thoughts in this direction. If I finish. In fact, what we all want is somehow the stability of these public finances and the effective and targeted management of this country. The unsustainable funding package, the final priorities and at the same time the functioning of the whole system is, of course, a budget. The proposed budget seems to follow these objectives, so I will support it, with my fellow Members of Parliament, with my fellow Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u102	President, thank you for your word. In today's debate and elsewhere in the media there is much talk and separation between the economy and the economy. From one point of view, I would say, a lazily, populist point of view that we are separating between the public and the private sector in the sense that the private sector is creating and the public is spending. We also had a train drawn for a while. But at the same time, it must be said that this separation does not know serious economic knowledge, nor does it exist in any official documents, nor in statistics. Because we've heard a lot about this today. The only real and real dilemma in society is the separation between market and non-market organisation of production. It is a question of what is more rational and appropriate for society. Either some production of goods, products, services that people, institutions need, leave to free initiatives – this is financing, this is financed through market sales – or it is better to organise a planned and stable approach to non-market principles. This means funding through taxes, contributions and so on. To illustrate, in the market sector, we should allow for the construction of several parallel competing railways, roads, health systems, power lines, police and administrations. That's what common sense says to be pure nonsense. This dilemma was the reigning bourgeoisie, far back, years ago aware, many years ago. During the time of Iron Chancellor Otto von Bismarck, public health and public pension were introduced because they saw that this was much more rational and useful for them. Now that most market production, especially financial ones, is run by installed administrations, not more owners who are paid from profits, they simply and tirelessly do not see a wider picture after searching and would also like to generate profits in the typical public sector. The wisdom of the former bourgeoisie is gone. To this end, there is no separation in the production of goods to economic activity, on the other hand to non-economic reading, to public administration, also clearly shows the way of monitoring and collecting data in the world, Europe and Slovenia. Eurostat and the Statistical Office of Slovenia monitor data by separation to market and non-market producers. This is by qualification from the Statistical Office of Slovenia and by European account. The public administration is no doubt part of the production, as it is the production of the goods that we need, the public sector also contributes to the social gross product, some 20 per cent; even more, the goods created by the public sector are the necessity for society to function in an orderly manner and for entrepreneurs and businesses to be able to generate profits. Everyone needs products from public administration and public services, this is security, some legal order and educated and healthy people, roads. So if it was competition, we'd be setting up more parallel roads, more police, more troops. The results of the World Bank's extensive research on the sources of national wealth, which encompassed 120 countries in the world, clearly show that the main source of wealth in developed countries is by no means natural resources and productive capital, but untapped capital: knowledge, cooperation, the functioning of institutions, the simplicity of procedures. Well, we punch and punch through our institutions every day like they're not ours, like they're some punks who run this country and no institution's worth a damn. We've heard that a few times today. Indeed, there is something; however, there is a difference between a market economy and a non-market economy, between market and non-market production when bad times come or if it is not found well for the market, if it is not adjusted, it is lost from the market. While non-marketable remains; remains in production and so is the case. What if we did everything because the market didn't have maintenance in the roads, we wouldn't have electricity, we wouldn't have had health care if I didn't say so. We have also heard and spoken and flogged in this hall through public administration, through the country, how unreasonably organized it is and so on. It's foreshadowed. That's not true at all. The public sector undoubtedly contributes to the social gross product. If we look at some comparisons with other countries in Europe, it is quite clear; higher than a gross social product – contrary to my friend Horvath, to say the least – a greater share is the contribution of the non-market sector. If we look at the share of taxes, there are little old data, I apologize, from 2017 – in Slovenia the share of taxes in gross social product 37.3, the EU average is 38.5, the eight most developed countries have 39.9. The share of employees in the public sector is 22%, the average in the EU is 27%, and in the eight most developed EU countries is 30%. The share of employees in the public sector is 8.8%, the EU average is 9.7, the most developed are 11.7. And the share of GDP: the most developed are 20, and we have below 17 percent, which contributes because it is smaller. We see from this study that Slovenia, according to the scope of the public sector, is one of the countries where this sector is relatively modest, both by the size of its employees and by the share of the taxes collected. Given the effects it creates on comparable criteria, for example, health and education are found in G. We could conclude that the Slovenian public sector is comparable and is one of the more productive. That, in fact, efficiency is also above average. That is why I think we need to be careful here and say to this general opinion that this does not apply. While there is an economic private sector, this is 20 per cent of productivity below the European average. There's something else I'd like to say. Today we're talking about taxpayers. Here, I'll take it. I'm revising last year's budget data. The value added tax is far too high. These are taxpayers, that's 3 billion 756 million, I'm sorry, and excise fees are a billion 595. Who's paying for this? Who's us? What about four million tourists who don't pay for it? Let's not forget. They're taxpayers, too. The income is the next billion 280, the corporate income tax is 845 and then we have capital revenue, and some countries also have capital, and let's look at this 845. [[…]] The corporate income tax is 845 for the economy. If I look at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, for local development infrastructure 49 million, incentives for growth and enterprise development 26 million, support for technology development firms 22, incentives for foreign investment and economic openness 22 also, support for tourism development – what did we say? We have 4 million tourists, 12 million. And so on. So we don't do anything on the economy. Where is my Horvath to ask him a little bit about the data if he reads the budget and the results of the budget. Now, on the other hand, there's none of these. Both sides need thinking, and this is divided around the world. Some are more inclined to give to those who produce and do – and so is – and others, let us also take care of social justice and equality, now that I have a left or now my right, I will say so, only from this budget of the Ministry of Labour – because I am chairing the committee and my colleague Yuri is on this committee and someone else here, including Jože, knows, it is a billion-hundred social transfers. And there's a billion more from other ministries. According to the data, when the secretary of state came together, it's two billion and a half. Unlike 2011, this is 155 million. To destroy the social state, hard words have fallen and so on. So 25% of the budget is about social, not speaking at local level. Because the state sector, you know it's 20 billion. So how can we say that it is not a developmental focus, I think it has a way of speaking, but there is also a lot of talk about these small businesses, how they save us. By the way, I only pulled statistics from the SURS. Large and medium-sized enterprises account for 1.2 per cent of all companies. I've got 200 grand in my head, and that's my back data, too, because they're not collected differently. But there are more than 54 percent of employees in these companies and they create more than 60 percent of the income. So 1.2 percent of businesses know about importance and weight – here comes my colleague! That's not how these things are meant to be. There's something else I'd like to say. I recently read a few words, and I ran into a Harry Frankfurt. Professor, doctor at Princeton, one of the most famous universities in the world. In 1985 he published — studied, worked, and then published an essay. This essay was called On Bullshit, in the Slovenian translation, because this term was captured, meaning essentially, the closest thing would be the load. He devoted himself to and theoretically worked out and developed a theory of a special way of communicating, which is designed to get the audience on his side, and all that matters to the speaker is that he succeeds. Whether he is telling the truth or not is totally irrelevant. A liar is something else, a liar becomes just — he knows he will lie, and he becomes a liar only in a specific case when he is lying. So he has to be aware. That's the legal logic. On the other hand, the truth teller doesn't give a shit. The talker makes sense just to convince the audience at emotional, not mental, emotional, level of correctness. Only the effect is taken into account, only the result, and it is completely irrelevant what and how it speaks only to achieve the desired result. I would like to have a little more constructive conversation than we had, and I think it would be easier for us to talk in this House and be more useful. Finally, I would only say this: 90% of this budget has already been allocated in advance. Under the law, when they were adopted over the years, since the survival of our country, they changed a little bit, added a little bit, but it's 90 percent. The space of manoeuvre is 10 per cent, such as this manoeuvre space, I fear that it is almost impossible to destroy the country and bring this country to disaster. Only the results speak differently. Economic growth is high – someone has taken care of it. Someone's also made the environment so that it's possible. The deficit is shrinking, as one has already mentioned. We are the highest interest when we paid, we had a billion 500, next year, last year, it was 860 million, for this year it is expected if I remembered well that we will pay 772 million interest. Well, more than half. So, we're going in the right direction and this government and this budget seems just fine to me, and that is why we will unanimously support the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The word is Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! Of course, the budget is very important, which will somehow block the boundaries of our lives, the expectations of the next two years. That is why I think it is very important and that it is record-breaking, it was heard by the Government when it was first brought to the National Assembly, that we have a record budget. But look, as an ordinary citizen, as a taxpayer, I always wonder who's gonna be the record of who we're gonna give the record to. Are we going to give the record to those waiting in waiting lines, or are we going to make it possible for young people waiting for housing, or are we going to make it possible for those who want to make record profits, even for some infrastructure project, or for some state project? We know what's going on, that calls fall because a specific project, a record project, doesn't get a specific person in the country. I would really like an answer here, for whom this budget will be record-breaking over the next two years. My friend Starovic is still here. He has already taught me here a little economics how to fill our state treasury, that with VAT, with value added tax is 3.7 billion, if I remember correctly, fill in, that from corporate tax only and only 780 million and that I don't know how much we invest in the economy so this is not going together. [[…]] Look, I don't know who's going to fill 3.7 billion if not those who are employed in the economy, even in the public sector, even in the public sector. But tourists! True, tourists are important, I never said no, but I would like to know if you will teach me, my colleague Starović or the secretary of state, how much domestic consumption is generated by citizens and citizens. If that's separate. But in a way this information would be expected, of course, we need to know how much they create.They say, "the first half of the year, the tourist visit was extremely high, so much and so much has increased." So we should have this information before we start to really talk about these things. Once again, 3.7 billion VAT is paid by people who are more or less employed. The budget itself on certain items may indeed be of some encouragement. However, the country does not promise any change in the next two years, which the OECD, the European Union, has been pointing out all the time. We are getting criticism of how far we are with long-term care that we do not have some international commitments in this area. However, the budget in this area does not bring, at least from this point of view, some significant changes, not on long-term care, but even though we know that long-term care should be the one where everything else should also go. Because long - term care brings a person’s dignity. Christian Democrats are constantly stressing that he is an important person and how he is provided. It also brings on the other hand the burden of some institutional protection, for which we should be, and we are talking about how many houses we will build, instead of talking about what we will do, so that we will have as little concrete as possible as green, we will also be more environmentally and sustainable in long-term care and care for the elderly. But you just can't do it. As I can see, there is nothing far in the next two years. As far as health care is concerned, the colleague said, she said, she said, she said, she said, she was going to invest something new, some investment investments, new technologies, but what would be the new technologies if we didn't have people working with these new technologies? We have today, today it was published on the MMC portal, problems in UKC Ljubljana. When the wards are closed, when there are 240 beds, I have this information written down somewhere, of the 2,000 150 patients receiving, 40 beds restricting the admission of patients. Lack of personnel in intensive therapy. To the most important! What are we gonna do? I believe the Ministry of Health has been doing this all the time, but look, these people are going to have to be paid, too. I'm sure at this point, it shows that there can't be any levellers. Here comes long - term care — how will we care for the elderly if there is no money for it? Absolutely not! Very bad. And what I want and what Christian Democrats say all the time, I want to have a decent age, every citizen wants to have a decent age, but as it turns out, we are in a vicious circle. It is very worrying as far as UKC Ljubljana is concerned. Infrastructural resources are increasing. We all promise that older vehicles will be on the border, but at the same time, I do not know how to drive if the lines are shut down and so on. Simply, there is a lot of desire in the budget and, as I said before, a lot of desire. However, the fact is that the budget for 2020 and 2021 will limit us if I say at home how we will live and what we will do. I'm afraid of what's going to happen in the area of health. We are talking about how important Slovenian is, how important public schools are, how important public kindergartens are — a bunch of amendments are put on this topic. In the budget, however, it is regrettable, not for another gym, not just for one school, to which we referred an extraordinary meeting in Novi Slovenija when we talked about investments in public education. What did the budget bring for two years? A little, almost nothing. To replace some lights, replace some table and repaint maybe 5 schools in Slovenia, not even for energy rehabilitation. That's how much budget it brings. We are saying that if Banka Slovenije has already taken this measure regarding credits, we will strengthen the Housing Fund and we will have a law that will be written on the skin of young families and will allow them the first independent path. With what? With 0.4 GDP, it was promised in the coalition contract that by the end of the coalition – now you have about two, two and a half years – you would have an increase of 160 million. How much is in the budget now? 3.7 million. I'll tell you what 3.7 million is! Two blocks of paint, some kitchen, some stove in these apartments. I hope that at least the windows are replaced from the previous financial perspective, when the power for energy recovery was to benefit from European funds. Providing public health care – we could talk here for a very long time. State infrastructure projects, caravan second pipe, which is not from anywhere, and we have a record budget for record profits of some. We would ask ourselves what is expected of us by those who have remained on the other side of the border on one side or another of the historical milestones. Of course, I am referring to foreigners, Italian on the Italian side, Croatian, Hungarian, Austrian, also displaced in Serbia, Belgrade, Bosnia and so on; America, Argentina, Canada. You could still tell me where they live. What do they expect from their homeland? To enable them at least what is essential to preserve the Slovenian language and Slovenian culture. However, despite the fact that we have proposed an increase in budgetary resources at the Commission for Slovenians in place and around the world, this has not been the case. Otherwise, the minister said that he had been shown mercy and somehow allowed a higher budget of 200 000 euros, which means that they would probably eat some wage imbalances and the rest of the question of what he would be able to do with that. However, we want to have strong Slovenian communities, we want to implement the Repatriation Act well, but we simply do not provide those basic funds. In Croatia, I wish that the Slovenian community had a teacher, I wish that the Slovenians had the possibility of having children in Slovenian kindergartens, in Slovenian schools. All of this has been warned of how few more of this there are. In Croatia, for example, Slovenian departments are closed because there are no teachers for Slovenian language. We simply did not recognize what it means to take care of our own, for those who are actually dependent on the country of origin. And this is the last thing that has hurt me most lately and most of all, but I think she's going to have to worry about all of Slovenia, and this is adapting to climate change, where it's a very nice amount. I can see everywhere you go, what green brochures with trees and very little resources to deal with the consequences of natural disasters. Only EUR 20 000 has been planned in agriculture to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, which is less than it has been all year round. Now I really don't know if the accident is going to happen, though, see when the rains and agricultural land were already in the crawling phase last week, the rivers were breaking. Well, now what I've left behind is waste management. I, I think, had a good week or 14 days ago to ask a question. The whole of Slovenia has equipped itself with some cleaning facilities, which have also been encouraged by European funds. The mud that remains in the cleaning plants has so far been brought to Austria for burning. Austria said they would never do that again. I checked my local congregations for this. They breathe on gills — mud remains on cleaning machines, and we do not have a strategy for what we will do with this mud. We have no incinerator. We have nowhere to take this mud. Do you know what that is? This is a millstone for all of us citizens and citizens who are connected or connected to the sewage network and are therefore charging us with the cleaning of fecal water or municipal waste. This will be so dramatic to us that I can't imagine how we're going to get out of this. And worst of all, it threatens to keep all this mud in Slovenia. I don't know who and which tourist will come to contribute through value added tax to the country's budget. It's not, it's not a joke, it's a serious problem. I was thinking when I got this information that it wasn't true and I asked our mayor of Cerknica how it was. And he insisted that this was a serious problem in Slovenia. Nobody's moved yet, we still don't have a solution. But it is true that I have asked a written question, which is the time to answer it within one month. In the next 14 days, I will have an answer to this question. Then it will probably be necessary to convene a committee meeting to see what the strategy will be. But from the budget, I didn't understand this strategy that we have a waste management strategy, and this is mud from cleaning machines. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Now they get the word government representatives. First it's mag. Saša Jazbec, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u106	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. I would like to respond to some of the questions that have now been raised in the debate below. Mr Ivanuša, the answer to your question, if you could deduct the revenue or surpluses of the state budget and redirect them to the congregations, is that this is not possible professionally. For each amendment or for every higher obligation, a source must be available, otherwise things do not stand together. The second reason, however, is in fact, what we have stressed today is that such a structure would not then be in line with the fiscal rule. Then you asked why you should also be in debt in 2020 and 2021. The country is most indebted to financial markets. This means that the issue of a bond, the issue of a treasury exchange that is due during the year and the issue of a bond — five, ten, fifteen, twenty - year - old and multi - year - old. Then, basically, every year, we get some bonds. I went to see, we also have this transparent on the Ministry of Finance's website, let's say next year it goes west on January 27th a good billion 600 RS67 bonds, which means that when this money has to be returned, if the money is in the account, it can be taken there and then it won't have to be re-indebted, but since there's not so much of that in the account, then it will have to be re-indebted. So the Treasury is constantly in debt, only it's not a new debt, but it's a replacement of the old debt. Not necessarily in the same amount, depending on the market situation, for what period, at what interest rate, this is such a dynamic process. I have already said today that, by actively managing the debt, we have essentially settled interest costs in the state budget over the past few years. virtually all of 2020, 2021, 2025, 2024, 2026 actually some major benchmark issuing bonds, so these are bonds that are heavy over billions of euros, the whole issue is going to fall and then they have to be replaced according to how many surpluses have been created, which then affect the situation in the account. Mr Mahnic once again stressed what is not in the budget. The issue of Owl, which has been nourished in the past, but if we want to make up for the world's moving, especially in these areas of security and cybersecurity and all that, we need to invest further in the development. Mr Mahnic also asked whether pensions were rising, why this was not known in the state budget. Today, several times has already been said, since it is already safe for December this year and, in fact, even for January, it is already more than impossible to calculate how much pensions will be aligned, then to calculate it. The fact is that the second year's pension register, its ceiling, which you confirmed in the National Assembly, will be 285 million higher than this year. But because current employment is record-breaking, people have jobs, people have salaries that are growing, so then the original income of the pension fund is essentially so much higher that the state budget for the balance of the pension fund has to be allocated less than it has been required in previous years, but it is still over 900 million. Mr. Mahnic then asked about the police, and then the colleague will say. Even with regard to climate change. Although we have already mentioned this, we also have some extra-budgetary funds in addition to the budget. Of course, these funds are designed in accordance with the laws. We have a climate fund, the basis of which is the Environmental Protection Act, which sets out the purposes for which these funds are then used. We have a water fund whose legal basis is the Water Act. So these two roof laws determine for what purposes these funds are then transferred over the years as budget funds. This is the difference between integral budget items. This will then not only be done domestically, as has been said, but the Government will adopt the spending programme of this fund, where resources are then used for the specific purposes set out in this programme in accordance with the legal basis. Mrs. Dimic has now raised taxes in the end. To talk about as fresh numbers as possible, this year's value added tax will be just under 4 billion, 3 billion 950 we planned in the balance sheet, and it'll obviously happen there. This year's corporate income tax will be paid in a relative way, close to a billion, somewhere. These are the two you mentioned. Unfortunately, these statistics, so that I can serve you, as far as we can say, from foreigners, or how many of the locals, it is, I will not say, impossible, difficult. We can monitor this approximately overnight. These are statistics, and there are no others. On the other hand, my colleagues will now respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Melita Šinkovec, State Secretary, Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. At the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we are satisfied with the budget for 2020 and 2021. The budget, essentially after many years when the police were financially malnourished, allows for the further development of the police. As it is said, the budget of the Ministry of Interior and Police is increasing. It was said to increase by about 10 million. This increase will, in the first place, also apply to salaries. Police pay is good, and police work is good. Part of the money will be devoted to equipping, i.e. purchasing modern equipment, and for the operational work of the police. This ensures good conditions for police work. When we have good working conditions, the police can focus on their work. In addition, we need effective powers. And in this package, the police can work well, professionally, professionally and in accordance with the law. This ensures security for all citizens and citizens and fulfils their mission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dr. Tomaž Pliberšek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u110	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Dear Members, distinguished Members, colleagues! I will start with the thought or sentence that I said in the introduction of the extraordinary meeting of the Health Committee when we discussed the draft budget for 2020 and 2021. The sentence reads: “We can probably agree that there is never enough funding for health care, but I can say that we are satisfied with cutting the budget meal.” Among the lines, I will say, our ministry is focused on increasing efficiency, rationalising processes, amending procedures and simplifying procedures, as well as establishing better organisation, but not least we need more resources than I will point out later. The level of resources in the state budget for health has been increasing in recent years. This trend continues over the next two years, when the Ministry of Health's financial plan in integral work is higher than this year's by about 20 million. Why? It should be borne in mind that, as for the entire state budget, the Ministry of Health’s financial plan also represents a large proportion of the legal obligations. These are €120 million and 72% of the overall financial plan. The largest item in 2020 is part of the budget, which is allocated to the financing of specialisations and traineeships, which have been transferred as non-health services from the CFSP to the state budget. For what purpose? In 2020, €80 million is planned for this purpose. The funds are planned in accordance with the Medical Services Act and this year we are additionally burdening the medical treasury and thus allowing the ZZS to finance more health services than it would otherwise. The proposal for the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2020 is prepared from the starting point of the rebalancing 2019, taking into account the joint proposal of government limits. The 2020 budget proposal increases by €6.5 million and 3.5%, respectively. Integral funds represent 87.2% of the 2020 proposal, amounting to €170 million and increase by €17.9 million according to the 2019 rebalancing. According to the 2020 programming structure, the Ministry of Health has planned a total of EUR 38 million for the main programme 1701, i.e. EUR 8.5 million for the reduction of waiting periods. As we know, in 2019, €10 million was provided in the budget, which was directed towards an increase in the scope of the programme by 15% of specialist outpatient activities and prospective programmes in the part where public institutions and concessionaries will take advantage of this opportunity and opportunity in the case of available resources under the 2019 general agreement. For 2020, €8.5 million has been reserved in the budget, as mentioned. It is necessary to be aware that all these additional funds provided in the budget of the Ministry of Health in 2018 and 2019 represent less than 0.5 of all funds, as far as they are allocated annually to the Department of Health for the implementation of all health services. Based on the above, the expected result is also proportionate. We're always talking about the fact that money won't save the waiting hours. Our current priorities are focused on measures to improve the quality of data on waiting and waiting ages. A pilot project was carried out at the Ljubljana Orthopedic Clinic, where it was interesting to find, by reference to Annex 3, that an action in the form of additional outpatients during the afternoon and Saturdays could be taken out of unacceptable waiting periods for the first orthopaedic specialist reviews. Unfortunately, the removal of inadmissible patients is not possible for orthopaedic surgery, as the current operational capacity is not sufficient for an increased volume of additional services. Third move. The Ministry of Health has also invited WHO experts to participate. The establishment of conditions for the reduction of travel and measures in the area of financing of services are aimed at a general agreement 2020. Given that the issue of waiting periods is not resolved for a short period of time, but requires comprehensive and careful consideration and inclusion of all stakeholders, our aim is to manage unacceptable waiting periods, i.e. those waiting beyond the permissible waiting period, as defined by the Patient Rights Act. If I continue with the main programme 1702 – Investment at the primary level. The Ministry plans to co-finance primary health care to municipalities. We know that most health homes are in co-establishment with local communities. We are spending €374 million 136 on this. In the main programme 1703 Secondary and tertiary health care – €30.3 million, the Ministry plans to continue initial investment projects and upgrade equipment in hospitals. It's only right to say a little more. This last investment cycle was completed in 1974. In integrated funds, which is under 19.4 million euros, there are 4 million euros planned for the purchase of CT devices, 3.8 million euros for the renovation of hospital pharmacies, 2.8 million euros for the fire protection measure, 3 million euros for the energy and fire rehabilitation of the General Hospital in Jesenice and so on. Within this programme, the Ministry also has a budget fund, which plans to transfer unused funds from 2019 amounting to approximately 55 million. This is a budget fund under the Law on Investments in the ZZ. Therefore, all public health institutions which have a valid investment project in place in the development programmes plan, which is carried out during the financial year, are obliged to allocate 20% of the depreciation recognised at the cost of their health services. We get this information from the ZZS every month. Let me just mention the larger payments between 2013 and 2018, for example UKC Ljubljana is 15 million 239 UKC Maribor 7.5 million, Celje General Hospital 4.5 million and so on. If I continue with the main programmes, these are Other health routes, the amount is €98.9 million. I have already mentioned the transfer of 80 million to the cash register in order to increase the volume of health services. However, I must also mention that under the new legislation envisaged, this is an intervention law on municipalities or local communities' burden, the Ministry of Health is also expected to absorb the cost of basic health insurance for socially disadvantaged persons of an estimated EUR 17.3 million, the annual costs of the funeral service, at an indicative cost of EUR 3.5 million. We did not have to plan these funds in the draft budget for 2020 and 2021, as there is no valid legal basis. Maybe this whole investment thing. Currently, contracts amounting to EUR 49 million are being implemented, EUR 302,028. I've mentioned some of these. Public procurement procedures are under way at an estimated value of almost 18 million. We have such large lists of wishes, i.e. ongoing investments, investments that are the framework of public procurement, investments that are desires and so on. We are proactively involved in this area. We were also talking about non-refundable development funds. We've highlighted them in particular. In this perspective, the Ministry of Health, within the framework of European cohesion or this policy, has approved 19 projects in the period 2014-2023 implemented by more than 80 operators. Let me also mention the programme to support the structural reforms of the European Commission, which we are also very helpful with. Above all, I will focus now on the identified needs that we will meet with the help of European cohesion funds in the future financial perspective. We focused on the following topics: achieving the necessary level of patient safety and quality of treatment, namely technical support for the European Commission's structural development service in the design phase of the SenSys project; investment in public health institutions and the procurement of medical equipment, which will contribute to the reduction of waiting hours in health; the establishment of a single health information system; investment in health promotion and measures to prolong the healthy years of life of the population; investment in long-term care measures; and the provision of additional education for health personnel. It seems important to me that we disclose that the Ministry is working to obtain additional investment funds in the current financial perspective and has prepared projects that contribute to the objectives of the operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020. However, the current distribution of funds between the departments has already been made, and the Ministry is therefore seeking to use any unused investment funds from other ministries to carry out investment projects and to obtain the necessary medical equipment in public health institutions. It is particularly important that we invest in human health and the healthy ageing of people, in addition to investment through European cohesion funds, through projects of health promotion centres, risk management and harmful drinking, modernisation of mobile units for the implementation of preventive programmes and programmes to reduce drug damage. Perhaps another demonstration of projects in progress concerning cohesion funds. The existing perspective, in the current financial perspective in the Investment and Public Procurement Sector, we implement projects in two priority investments: 9.3 – Investing in health and social infrastructure and 4.1 – Energy efficiency. Project: New construction of the Department for Disabled Youth and Rehabilitation of General Hospital Dr. Franca Derganca in Nova Gorica on Stara Gora. The first phase of the investment was successfully completed 24. Ten. 2019. In the first phase, a financial contribution of 2 and a half million was approved. This is the second phase of the investment, which we are in the public procurement phase. Operations or hospital energy renovation projects shall be carried out under the operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy in 2014, priority axis 4.1. In 2019 we made an investment in the General Hospital of Trbovlje, an investment was completed in August, a European fund of around 616 000 euros was drawn up; in Novo Mesto General Hospital a contract with the contractor was concluded 23. This year's 10th. In 2020 and 2021, we still have several facilities. If listed: University Clinical Center Ljubljana 5 facilities, University Clinical Centre Maribor 3 facilities and so on. But we have prepared for all those procedures, operations where, I'll tell you, pumping is not the best, so-called crisis pumping plan that we have ready for energy recovery. Let me also say that we have an action plan to accelerate the drawdown of funds from the operational programme for the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020 and that we are also rapidly preparing ourselves for a new perspective. The European Commission presented a proposal for a multiannual EU financial framework for the period 2021-2027. In line with the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of similar institutions, we need to implement the so-called enabling conditions which are a condition for the start of European cohesion policy funding after 2021. One of the enabling conditions is the preparation of a strategic framework for health care in Slovenia, which must be provided by our ministry. The Ministry of Health has already adopted and implements the current resolution on the national health plan. The Ministry of Health will carry out the needs mapping by implementing a project on the rational organisation of the public health network, which envisages the implementation of the following activities: analysis of the implementation of programmes taking into account available resources and the expectations or needs of patients; preparation of a proposal for links or rationalisation of healthcare providers and programmes; preparation of the first package of proposals for links or rationalisation of healthcare providers. The document must be adopted no later than 31. 12. 2020. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Marko Maver, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. I'll try to be shorter. I would only respond to comments on climate change and waste management. Last week we discussed the importance of climate change for Slovenia and for Europe and the wider world for several hours. A statement about why to invest in climate change adaptation seems almost absurd to me, but I will refrain from commenting. Especially now. We've seen what happens in Venice, where floods are the worst in 150 years. We have also seen such floods become more frequent. We also know that Slovenia is warming up twice as much on average as the world. For Slovenia, floods will be the biggest, as I would say, phenomenon of climate change. Therefore, adaptation to climate change for Slovenia will be particularly important. As already mentioned, we have a climate fund at the Ministry, from which we will use the next year to deal with the consequences of natural disasters of 15 million, as well as to preserve biodiversity of 5 million – so it is together to adapt to climate change of 20 million. We now have a public spending programme, so that this can be changed in public treatment by the end of November and then issued next year. As far as waste is concerned. We know what the situation was, what happened in China, what Hungary decided to do, that mud would no longer be accepted in the years to come. Here is also the position of the Ministry and there must also be all other sources and individuals that we must take care of waste at home and follow this hierarchy of waste reduction, reuse, recycling and ultimately the last option, incineration. There was also a lot of talk about the construction of the thermal treatment facility, whether it will be one facility or an upgrade already in existence. Let me also mention that a broader debate is already under way. We have also sent initiatives to a number of municipalities, whether there is an interest in the possible construction of such a facility. We also held a number of meetings and, presumably, by the end of the year, it would also be a professional decision how to proceed now: whether to build a new facility or upgrade existing ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Nino Mauhler, I'm asking if maybe she wants a word? No, no, no. Thank you very much. I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Gregor Perich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everyone. Colleagues, colleagues, representatives and representatives of the government! The likelihood that SDS colleagues will say that this draft budget is development-oriented is the same as that of Left to say that it is socially oriented. This probability is, we're all aware of it, zero. Nevertheless, I think that Minister Bertonzel has done a good job. This job wasn't easy. We all, I believe, realize that this government is a minority, that it has many partners. Daily we see, we are monitoring that these interests are quite significant, that there are also ideas, including very legitimate initiatives not only within the coalition, but also by the opposition very much. But the fact is, desire is getting more and more than real possibilities. It is also true that this budget, in terms of size or scope, is recordable, which is good, which is positive at the end stage, as is also due to the activities of the past governments, which have ruled in substantially different circumstances, in a much more acute economic, economic, financial, social and many other situations. Today, we are in a situation where we can share significantly more than we could have done two years ago or three years ago when we faced the situation when Slovenia and many of its subsystems were heavily fed by this long-lasting crisis, which left many cracks in different areas. Today we are talking about who we can give everything to, which is good, which is, as we say, the result of some quality policies from the past. I would also like to say, at the conclusion of the work of this government, that it has also left a good, positive legacy, and that the government that will inherit it, regardless of who it is, will have easier work and will be able to deal with problems that are of a developmental nature, without having to deal with some of the consequences of the bad decisions of the past. If I go back a little bit to the budget itself. It seems very important to me that it is in line with the Stability and Growth Pact. This is an instrument at the level of the European Union which encourages all Member States within the European Union to act publicly responsible and not to spend beyond their capabilities or to adjust fiscal measures in terms of tax collection in such a way that countries, as such and individual subsystems within it, can operate in a smart and predictable way that will also serve the needs of its citizens, businesses and everyone else. At the same time, this budget, we have heard, is also in line with the fiscal rule. Today, such a very interesting debate has developed as to whether the fiscal rule we have is appropriate or inappropriate. But all this debate that was today comes from the situation that is here today and now. If we had this fiscal rule before the crisis itself, I believe that the effects of the crisis as such would also be different. Today we can talk within some different, more ambitious parameters. I would call for all together that we are so wise that we take into account the different macroeconomic situations, because there are little warnings that are also going in the direction that the situation can also change, and this changes unfortunately also in a direction that we would not want to. It is good, therefore, that when we think about how ambitious we will be in spending, we do so with some weighty thought, even with a shaking hand. Because we have a problem in politics a lot of times, there is a problem and normally no one wants to be the one who won't please the public. And then politics under some public pressure, under pressure either by the media or by some other pressure groups, also pulls some moves, which then, in the medium or long term, turn out not to be the most thoughtful or rather bad. We are talking about some economic growth forecasts that are moving there between 2.5% and 3%. These are not surpluses, but there are some solid percentages of economic growth, and I believe that many around the world would have wanted such percentages. If this remains within these frameworks, I think that Slovenia has nothing to fear. But we need to be reasonable, thoughtful, and not take too long steps. Many times we compare ourselves with countries that are not comparable to or that are not comparable to us. Many times we look at Austria, look at Germany, many times at Scandinavia – but this is not Slovenia. If we want to compare ourselves with comparables, maybe it's not too much for anyone, but then we need to look back a little bit more eastward and see how things are going in the Czech Republic and in Slovakia somewhere else. And then we will see that maybe these colleagues from these countries are doing something different, that the transitions of the economy from one system to another have gone in some other way that had a much less social face, but today they have some other numbers that, if we look only economically, are more favourable than Slovenia has. If I go back to Slovakia and the Czech Republic, when the economic situation in terms of public debt in Slovenia was the most tense, we had the Slovenians 82.6% of the public debt, Slovakia had 51% of the debt in 2015 and the Czech Republic 40%. Today, Slovenia, I speak for 2018, pardon, is no longer 82% but is at 70%, today probably this number is even lower. Slovakia went from 51 to 49% and the Czech Republic from 40 to 32%. Why am I telling this information? When we are again in a situation that will be more economically acute, our colleagues from Slovakia and the Czech Republic will have much more room for manoeuvre, even from the point of view of indebtedness, but not from the point of view of debt. Our debt has also decreased because our budget has increased and then, in a relative sense, this debt is appropriately reduced, which is fine if our production or our budget does not shrink again. Then we may find ourselves in difficulty again, which is why I also call for some moderation or a slightly more conservative attitude. Not because we should not be thinking ambitiously, but because the circumstances in the region and also globally are quite unpredictable. I wouldn't mention it, because today we're all more than watching the media, and we see how different tensions between countries and different trade and customs wars then have an impact on the forecast of economic growth and on a lot of other things. We have also heard many times today who contributed the most to the fact that the budget has also grown so much and then we have little to do with whether it has created the real sector or has created the public sector. Both of them – the real sector cannot do without the public, the public cannot do without the real. And here's the collaboration. If we do not view these two as a related and related whole, we will find it difficult to make some moves or make decisions that will be appropriate or beneficial for our country. I started out on whether our budget is socially oriented or not, whether it allows for development or does not allow development. I say that it is socially oriented and that it enables development. 1.2 billion for social – who denies this fact and then says that Slovenia is not a social state and that this government is antisocial, I don't know if it wants to cheat very clearly or if it is pressing its eyes against reality. And we all know that we want to be liked here, and the facts don't even count that much, or we push them a little bit more aside. If I touch the investment. It is useful and good that we have again begun to think that our railways are an area that we have been neglecting for a very long time and that, for example, the second track has moved from a dead point. While we in the SMC had a slightly different view about the financial structure of this project, which they also wanted to include in this equation the countries behind us for one simple reason: this infrastructure we are building will have wider impacts, wider implications that go beyond the borders or borders of Slovenia – they are strong across. By building a second track, we also build an infrastructure that will benefit countries that are bordering us or that are a little longer than we are. It was therefore reasonable to expect or include them in this equation, so that the cost of building this project, which is not small, does not fall only on the budget, on the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because these funds can be used to undertake another project. We often mention the many needs we have. As it is said, they are very legitimate in the field of social and health care. If we try to combine different resources, then it's easier together and we can do more projects or more projects will be implemented. There was no undetected culture. I am glad that the cultural euro law promises a slightly brighter time. Although this law had already been established in the previous government, unfortunately it did not have any wider support in the previous coalition, so I am glad that the promises within this coalition are much better for this marriage. I believe that on this basis, too, the power of some projects in the field of culture will be removed from the dead because, as it is said, the crisis has lasted a long time and is well known. It is generally known first in culture and in those areas where these environments can take a slightly worse place for their rights or have no such impactive power and then usually draw short. If I touch any more security issues. In this regard, we also hear many views. Colleagues in the SDS will say we're under-security, colleagues in Levica will say we're giving too much to be safe. I believe that the extent of the funds we give is not small. Just before, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance said how much this is. The numbers are significant. However, if we take into account the security situation within the region, then we see that we must persist and continue to invest in security, even though we have a guarantee of this security in Slovenia. We are used to the fact that Slovenia is a safe country. But we have seen in neighbouring countries that things can change very quickly. After all, the experience of 2015 on the migration wave shows us how quickly things can turn. For this reason, this sense of security in Slovenia should not deceive us in the sense that we can save in this area and give our soldiers, I don't know, electric skiers instead of some other safer vehicles. This is certainly not something a serious country can afford, and there can be no debate at all. Over the past weeks, there have also been a lot of debates about the lending cap, encouraged by Banka Slovenije's actions. Here it must be said that the novelty of the housing law has already been designed, already conceived. In fact, we have already discussed it in the National Assembly, discussed it, presented it to us. This legislative procedure is ongoing. The basis of the new housing law will also be a different view of housing policy, which has been quite neglected in Slovenia in the past. We have repeatedly heard criticism that there is not enough resources in the budget for these purposes. As it is said, when the law is adopted, if it is adopted, I believe that it will be adopted, it will also be the basis on which funds will be added for all activities that will be or for all legal obligations. In addition to the new housing law, we have proposed another amendment in the SMC, which provides twice 200 million for guarantees for loans to young families to help them solve their housing problems. We believe that with a series of all these measures, we will alleviate all the hardship that has arisen. Of course, this problem is much deeper than it seems, and it will have to be solved over a longer period of time. Likely, Slovenians will have to look at property ownership differently, as we do today or have done in the past. Too neglected is this rental market or it is not sufficiently developed, it is not comparablely developed with another country, and there is also a lot of problems coming out of it, side by side with some centralisation that is constantly flowing. Thus, I believe that with these two steps, i.e. the new housing law, which will receive adequate funding when the law is approved, and with 400 million guarantees in the next two years, it will be possible to solve a number of problems, a number of them. This is, after all, one additional measure for family policy if we finally look at the matter a little wider. Someone who doesn't have a housing system is having a hard time thinking about his family. But we know that in Slovenia we are facing a problem of relatively low birthrates. The combination or a series of all these measures, I believe that in the future it will also help the Slovenes and the Slovenians to think more ambitiously also in view of the fact that there will be a little more of us, not that these numbers are shrinking. If I stay with social policy for a while. I said 1.2 billion, so this government is not antisocial, it has a sense of social. I was not proud of everything I heard. There have also been many reports of us in the SMC that we are neoliberals. See, in Slovenia we have a problem when we detect this problem, we can only solve it by adding additional funds. We do not wonder, however, whether the measures in force still respond to the needs compared to the period when they were put in place. We're a little short on courage here. It always slips on some ideological ice and then we break our noses. And that's a shame, because with the resources we have at our disposal, if we were to hope to think a little more ambitiously, we could do a lot more. In the context of social policy, in the last period, to underpin these arguments that this government is not antisocial, raise the minimum wage, maintain higher social support, address the last austerity measures introduced at the time of Zujfa, improve the situation of families, student families and, I hope, a very high level of social security in Slovenia. Today, we have heard many times that the best form of social security or some social adjustments is to allow people to have services that are also adequately paid. Here, however, we still have several challenges in Slovenia, especially to raise added value, and in this sense it is an important feeling for investment in us, because only those can raise added value. If I touch on the conclusion of further sustainable development and climate change. Days ago we had one consultation here in the National Assembly, where we thought about how the budget should be in the future. We don't understand the budget at all, and people think it's 1. 1. In the year, the Ministry of Finance or the state accounts will be waiting for that 10 billion 400 million. That's not true. The country must generate all these revenues and then, against certain liquidity capabilities, it can also spend. Even the surplus we are talking about needs to be realised. Not that at the end of the year, 31. 12, then there are 400 or 600 million euros left in the country's account. Unfortunately, that's not the case. The reality is slightly different, at least in terms of accounting. In the future, if we really want to be sustainable and take into account all that our country or our planet can do, we will probably have to think within some different parameters, not that this economic development is 3, 4, 5%, but that these numbers will probably also have to be a little less modest, a little more restrained, otherwise we'll simply burn it. But we're not gonna burn him for ourselves. We're gonna burn him for generations to come. That's why we probably don't worry too much, at least for now, at least some of us, but some of us are getting more and more. And even as customers we see one before, one later. We're green if I put it that way. At some point this budget will become even greener, and tax legislation will become green. I don't want any more corporate taxation, but if we're talking about green taxes, we need to change the existing taxes conceptually, turn them around a little bit to encourage those who are less polluting and burden those who are more polluting. In the SMC, we have repeatedly predicted that we will be a strong member of this government, and also, with the support of this budget, insist on doing so, we stick to the word. We did not put amendments into the budget itself, although, as we say, we have a lot of ideas. Above all, we did not put in amendments that smelled of any kind of populism. We are well aware of how difficult it is to run a majority government, not just a government that does not have a majority in the National Assembly. And any grunting of this boat means that at any moment it can also be turned over. I don't know who that would be good for. Maybe someone, but only for a short time. We also do not agree and agree that all measures, nor should the budget, should lead to blackmail or ultimatums, but rather the search for compromises. If I find out where I started, I believe Dr. Bertonzel has done a hard job with his team under the circumstances. Given that this budget is also assessed in terms of compliance with the fiscal rule as appropriate, we will support it in the SMC and I personally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u116	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. The budget is the most important country document. It includes revenue and expenditure for 2020 and 2021. I understand the individual ministries that they wanted to get as much as possible a meal, and I understand that compromises had to be accepted, which means that all wishes could not be taken into account. First of all, it is necessary to secure revenue into the budget, and here we must be aware of the responsibilities of our citizens, who contribute to the budget by all but companies. It would therefore be right for you to treat our revenue in the budget in a responsible, transparent and cost-effective manner. This is the way to deal with every euro in the budget. There is a surplus in the budget, 400 million euros will be surplus. We will save so much, and some forecasts point to the cooling of the economy and we could use the money when the economy starts to cool down. I certainly welcome the amendment of New Slovenia, which was adopted by the Committee on Finance, although it is the Law on the Implementation of the Budget to make more money available to the municipalities themselves. In view of the fact that we place all our burdens on the congregations, it is also right that they are further rewarded. This is certainly commendable. The budget also contains illogical or disproportionate items. The Slovenian budget in 2020 allocates 8 million support, employment and rehabilitation to disabled persons, and for housing activities spends €3.7 million, while for the removal of toll stations on motorways we spend €31 million. Is there anything else that needs to be added? I don't think so. New Slovenia – Christian Democrats as a central party we advocate that it is important that the budget and tax policy leave sufficient resources for businesses to manage them so that businesses will have as much employment as possible to have high value-added jobs so that wages are as high as possible. We don't want the guy who works with us to be poor anymore. The poor workers are to blame, and it is fair to say, the networks that exhaust and destitute this country, as well as businesses, corruption, where almost 10% of the budget disappears into private pockets, and expensive, inefficient country, which is practically 30 years built by left governments. Because of the network, corruption and inefficient countries that allowed the bank hole, we were halfway through our budget. Moreover, the problem of this country is that for 30 years this country is only expanding, rich and employs, agencies, offices are opening up, they are additionally employed in public administration and the economy is being exhausted. In New Slovenia we expected stronger tax policy changes, but we only received cosmetic corrections. In addition, the government increases the expenditure of the sector by almost 4 billion between 2018 and 2022 in its budgetary frameworks. The very decommissioning of those who create these funds is almost nothing. More money should be invested in research and development, because this is the only way we have value added jobs in Slovenia. Much more money should be spent on burdens of work, burdens of wages. A key question should be how to create more at the time of economic growth, in the time of fat cows, in order to have a dry cow period. Instead, 270 million dollars a year are spent on financial social assistance to mostly healthy people, and those who can work do not want what seems to me to be a completely flawed social policy. Under the left-wing governments, it promotes and rewards the work, and the one who finds himself has the advantage, not the one who really needs the help. Is it normal that at the height of the crisis in 2014, we had 46,000 recipients of financial social assistance, and at the height of economic growth we have more than 90 000, just because this system allows and is obviously worth it? All social transfers to many people together amount to the minimum wage. And the left-wing government at the head of the Levitical government is backing the week, creating even more poor people. It's a wrong policy. This budget also does not stimulate or burden businesses in order to make work worthwhile. Because of the inefficient social policy that rewards the most resourceful, there is a lack of money for those who really need social assistance for the disabled who are unable to work. That is why disability pensions are shamefully low, so the disabled person receives EUR 256 per month of disability. Someone else who is healthy and capable of work will receive €400 of social assistance. It's not fair and it's not fair to those who do. This is also not a socially oriented budget. A good social policy and a well-directed social budget gives one who cannot work that he has at least as much as the threshold of poverty. In this budget, there are 2.5 billion more resources than in 2014, but only 80 million euros for investments. It was all about wages, social transfers, various transfers to NGOs, various studies, research, which we have virtually no benefit from. The Court of Auditors also gave a negative opinion on the planned means of establishing a long-term care system. You don't know how to draw on European funds, but you know how to drain the economy and the people. While European euros literally lie in our closets, instead of building 10 homes for the elderly for studies and long-term care research and home for the elderly, we spend an incredible EUR 74.5 million. Since 2007, we have not built any homes for the elderly, while today there are 11 000 applicants, but we know that the population is old. There was a lot of talk about this budget being socially oriented. I find it hard to believe that when our disabled and children with special needs have 7-10 diapers a day, this country gives them 2 diapers. This is not a social state and this is not a socially oriented budget. It's similar in health care. We are talking about the abolition of additional or supplementary health insurance that we would not need at all if we broke the monopoly of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and introduced competition. Here's the key problem, not the termination of supplementary insurance. It is difficult to fight the arguments of the Left who needs a poor person, he needs a patient, because they are building their policy and misleading our citizens, so that if they don't have to pay 35 euros, they'll come first for health services. Less money less music. The solution is the development of the monopoly of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia, but I believe it is difficult because it is not easy to scratch a frog with three billion. There's too much leeches up there. At the same time, I wonder where billions of people in health care are going. If I'm listening all the time to you that the money in the system is enough to explain to myself today's news that the UKC has limited the admission of patients due to lack of personnel. Where should those in need of health care go? Here the social budget ends in this place. I come from Savinja Valley and I cannot pass the 3rd development axis, where we will spend hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros on an unwise choice of routes, while we have three of the worst roads in the country, Andraz or Polzela-V Velenje, Šentrupert-Logarska Valley and Šentrupert-Vransko. Restoration is urgently needed in Schentrupert. However, we are building a road that will have seventeen infrastructure facilities, six tunnels, eleven double viaducts on 13 kilometres. With a shovel, we throw money out the window when we can use this money to rebuild all these roads and another road in the country. Every year we hear that the budget is development-oriented. If the budgets were to be developed, remember well, Koroška would have gotten this fast road a long time ago. But it's designed for construction barons. That's what it is. They'll build you even more and they'll build you even more expensive. However, the Carinthias will still be waiting for this fast road, while we will be waiting in a kilometre-long standstill and driving on destroyed roads due to a flawed infrastructure policy. How the budget can be development-oriented when the resources of the Infrastructure Directorate are being reduced. There is no means to rebuild state roads and railway infrastructure. Of course they are, the funds are, the efficient management of state infrastructure projects, here are the funds. We accept the largest budget, but the money to rebuild roads is less. For this reason, too, the budget for 2020 and 2021 cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word is Tadej Shuštar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you, President, for your word. I do not support the draft budget for 2020 and 2021. Given that we have such a record-high budget, I do not know why in some areas the financial situation has not been aligned at least if it has not improved with the pre-financial crisis situation. If we look at the case of the Slovenian Government Office for Slovenians in place and around the world, the Office had available EUR 12 million before the financial crisis. Only 9 million are earmarked for the Office in this budget. Three million less. Why did the funds not equalize at least with the pre-crisis situation? We listen to Slovenians in Italy who have problems with the Natura 200 area, which limits their farming. People care about the preservation of the Slovenian language, our culture and habits, but they do not have enough resources to operate their societies. There's no money for repatriation for the Slovenes from Venezuela. Are Slovenians in place and around the world so little important for this government and for coalition parties? In Novi Slovenija – the Christian democratic environment we want to take a step in front of all Slovenians. In particular, we want to support young foreigners and encourage them to stay in Slovenian territory and continue our tradition. They need scholarships to be able to live and develop their talents in all areas. Speaking of young people, let me also mention young people in Slovenia who do not find suitable or affordable housing. It is true that the budget provides for the Housing Fund, but more urgently than a housing fund, we need a good housing strategy that will apply to the whole country. Who can ensure that the Housing Fund also focuses on the peripheral areas of Slovenia? Will the Housing Fund also build apartments in the municipality of Rogatec, Kozje, Grad, Ilirska Bistrica, Jezersko or will it focus only on Ljubljana and Maribor? Young people need affordable apartments all over Slovenia. This budget, colleagues and colleagues, will not help them. Again, in 2020 and 2021, several thousand will move to countries that care more and know better. Let me still touch on the current issues of primary education. The decision of the Constitutional Court has not yet been established, although it has been five years since we have been familiar with its contents. Public school programmes should be fully financed from public money. Are there funds in the budget for this? Will non-governmental primary schools be able to receive 300 000 euros for the 100 per cent funding of the programme prescribed by the State? No, these funds are not foreseen. There is no provision for the construction and renovation of sports facilities, so that our athletes will train under appropriate conditions. What is happening in Slovenian sports is a miracle. Our athletes, despite their small financial support, achieve the highest achievements. Apparently, they must also be extremely resourceful in addition to hard training to create conditions for good training, which then brings good results. Congratulations to all who have succeeded and are still successful. The Minister for Education, Science and Sport, with all due respect, only infirmly notes that resources and enough. The latest call for the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to invest in primary school infrastructure was made in 2011. That's amazing. In NSa we sincerely wanted to help with the amendments for preschool education and primary education, and the coalition did not support them. Let him know who can. It is a pity for the missed opportunities of this draft budget. If ever, this government has now had a unique opportunity to correct injustices without greater effort, to reduce public spending, to relieve wages, and to lower taxes. All of this, therefore, is waiting again for one of the following governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u120	I don't have a co-worker, but I came back a little later, and I couldn't apply in time. I have a replica of the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Environment and a replica of Mr Mark Mavre. He was talking about climate change. When children talk about this, this is one level of debate, but when the Deputy Minister speaks, he is only expected to operate with exact data and not be misleading the public. He threatened to make these climate changes particularly problematic and dangerous for the Republic of Slovenia. He mentioned the high waters in Venice that we have witnessed in recent days. The first record of high water in Venice dates back to 589, when all the rivers from Tilment to Pad crossed simultaneously. The floods of Venice were first recorded in 782, and then regularly followed throughout history. In modern times, between 1926 and 1965, the lagoon experienced 43 high waters plus 110 centimeters and from 1966 to 2008, as many as 160, 12 of them above the level plus 140. The most catastrophic high water, however, was in 1966, when the sea grew to a further 1,94 centimeters. These days, we're talking about plus 187 centimeters in Venice. Dear Deputy Minister of the Environment, as I know you are in charge of the environment, let us ensure that climate change is addressed where it is most problematic, and this is CO2 emissions. A while ago, I asked you which of the public officials are driving private cars, which are also used for private use. I got a list of over 130 of you: deputies, ministers, secretaries of state, directors, Directorates-General, lower public servants. CO2 emissions are the biggest problem with climate pollution. Above all, the distinguished Deputy Minister for the Environment, make sure that waste in this country no longer burns outdoors, as has been the case in the last year, and in this way you will do something concrete about climate change. And all the other populism stories I suggest you leave to the kids, we can't blame them for that. You, who are a high official of the state, are very well paid, yes. And the first of the things you can do – you can come to Parliament for meetings like this today on foot. Similarly, all the 130 who use state cars paid by taxpayers for a few 10 euro a month's credit.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. I do not know if you were present at the debate on climate change. What kind of education do you have, I don't know, I'm not gonna touch that. I can tell you that climate change is not only a Slovenian problem, it is a problem for Europe and the whole world. Slovenia is a small actor on a European and global scale, but we can also lead by example. You mentioned reducing CO2 emissions, of course, this is one way to mitigate climate change. Because climate change is already happening. The consequences of the discharges we miss today will only be felt in a few years. Of course, floods have occurred in the past and will continue in the future. They're not just floods. There'll be fires. Some countries will be more sensitive to fires and some to floods. Slovenia has such a position, it has such a geography that it will be exposed to floods in particular. These floods will be more frequent and also more intense. And this is the problem of climate change. As far as the use of service vehicles is concerned, I'd rather not touch that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u123	[[advertising from the hall]] Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u124	In view of the fact that the Secretary of State had a debate, and given that he did not deny what I said, I think it is right to explain it to him again. Maybe he forgot what he was talking about, so he could take a look at the tape. It will be able to read that the Republic of Slovenia is particularly problematic in terms of climate change, and therefore must be particularly at the heart of the fight against these climate change in Slovenia. And he mentioned, you know, look what's going on in Venice and Piran and so on. [[…]] I just told you that you're manipulating the public. As long as children who are manipulated by others do so, this is one level, but when they begin to manipulate the public in Parliament, the deputy minister in charge of the environment, then this is a completely different story. And I've read to you that these high waters in Venice are not any and I don't know what climate specialities are going on in recent years, but the problem is to release CO2. But Slovenia is here, look, a little bit. Until this story is settled in India, China, we can all breathe on our gills, and we will not make a significant contribution. But I told you to take small, concrete steps. Your first task — for which you are well paid and charged — prevent garbage from burning where they cannot burn. Over the past year, this country has disposed of many wastes, not in an organized way, to take them to where they belong, but in a way that burned them and no one was responsible for it. Do you know how many harmful substances have gone into the air? How many people were threatened by this? Because of your irresponsibility and the irresponsibility of the Ministry. The second concrete step I mentioned to you, however, you did not say anything about whether you would do anything about it or not, why you need more than 130 service cars for private use. In most cases, they are old and therefore have higher CO2 emissions because the ratings are lower, you pay a few ten euros, and taxpayers pay you between 500 and thousands of Euros of fuel costs and repair monthly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u125	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Otherwise, much has already been said, but perhaps we can add something to it and open it again. First, I'd like to remind you of a document that the government sent to the National Assembly. This document is called Definition to the amendments tabled. Interestingly, whether the amendment was for 50,000 or 10 million or for some more, no amendment in the opinion of the Government is suitable for adoption. Not one. Now, I am also asking you here, both government representatives and members of the coalition, whether it is possible for almost EUR 11 billion in a large budget that no items can be completely modified or improved or with any reallocation to achieve a better effect than the Government has foreseen. Is it possible that this can't be done? If you, in the way you did it, lock up the budget, close the budget, then the debate in the National Assembly is irrelevant. It's irrelevant. You write some items into the budget, after the general work, the specific work, the programme development plan and so on, and from here on out everything anyone says and proposes is virtually immovable. He does not hope to make this a modern - day pope, that this is so. The government that's in this mandate is doing it. And she did. That the budgets cannot be done and that they are, is repeated by the government of Borut Pahor, since 2009, when it prepared the first rebalancing or the first budget, no amendment proposed by the opposition was acceptable to those governments. In this mandate, you have upgraded the story and you have closed the matter in such a way that the coalition Members do not in fact support or support any amendments and not even propose any amendments themselves, which is problematic. What happened at the previous meeting, when we discussed the budget or the budget balance, was said by Comrade Bevk, and he was very dismayed at the time that the budget went by the Members, you know, with these two budgets nothing else happened. Only none of the coalition MPs had practically hoped to say that something was wrong now after this story with Levica. I think that this approach is completely unrealistic, even unusual for discussions in the National Assembly. Whatever Members of Parliament are defending this and defending this budget as something that is oh and in general, you probably all know intimately that this is not the case. I know so many of you, I'll meet some of you, but I'm sure every Member knows that's not the case. And you only say what was said through a press conference that the budget is developmental, that the budget is social and I don't know what else. None of this holds. Colleagues well said that certain investment items were highly undernourished. There are some things that are not written down, but take a social field, and in these cases they may be large amounts, whether it be education, sports, culture, transport, health care or whatever you are looking at. There is simply no money on the items that mean investments. Mr Pogačnik said in his introduction that the tax revenues of the budget increased by EUR 2 000 571 million from 2014 to 2020, that is to say EUR 2 billion 571 million. According to your data, only 81 million more are allocated to the investment items in this 2020 budget than was the case in 2014. Practically 2 000 500 million or 2 and a half billion euros were lost somewhere. 81 million euros, if allocated, I think you have 14 ministries, means that in six years investment items will increase by an average of 6 million euros per sector, by less than 6 million euros. Now tell me whether the budget you have presented is development-oriented and investment-oriented. It cannot be because you have distributed 2 thousand 500 million by all possible other items, from which it is not possible to build houses or homes for older people, not nursing hospitals, not sports playgrounds and halls, not roads. Nothing can be built out of this. It cannot be on these assumptions, which have been said and held, are verifiable. None of you who represent the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at today's meeting of the National Assembly have objected to this information from Comrade Pogačnik. So they're standing. That the problem is even greater, there are still 2 000 100 million euro in the Brussels treasury, which are unspent. One of the debaters, I think Joseph Horvat, said that this is about one-fifth of this budget, is still in Brussels. The perspective is being concluded next year 2020. However, about one third of the funds are exhausted. Two thirds are still there. It is likely that we will again witness some special speed of government that some things will be redistributed, pushed into some time of distress, when even the National Assembly will not be able to do anything. €2 000 100 million is 2 billion 100. If this money, which is also our money, because of some of it we have not paid it, we have not exhausted it, normal countries are mainly benefiting from such huge difficult investments, then you can conclude on your own if you have not taken this money and not put it into investments, there is no investment. This is another reason why both government budgets are not investment oriented. They can't be because you didn't draw on the money, you didn't take it from the European Union budget. All that is happening here and what has been said in these debates is, in fact, just a performance for the public, some praise for a story that is substantively empty. If we are looking at investments that are being made or are supposed to be made in our country, let this be the second track, let this be a caravan tunnel, let this be the 3rd development axis, all of these investments are too expensive. When we look at the price of the tunnel being made by Austria, or when we look at the price of a mile of track, or when we look at the price of a mile of fast road in our country and in a neighbouring country, we see that, for unknown reasons, things are 30% to 300% more expensive than they are in some other comparable matters. Given that our companies and also our wages are somewhere on the water level, it is said there close to zero, that even wages are bad, it is actually unusual. We're wondering where this too expensive money goes to for the investments they're pocketing. 27 kilometers of our second track is as fast as the track, if I'm not mistaken, between Frankfurt and Berlin, the one 300 kilometers an hour. And it's not only 27 kilometers long, but it's probably ten times longer than this short section of ours. Someone who deals with investments, which also consists of a budget that controls these matters, should give some answer as to why this is so expensive for us. Who does this money belong to? Why is it that half of the money is built in our country for the same money as it is built, I don't know, in neighbouring countries, or a third less than the Karavanka case is going to be in the end? This should be answered by those who care about the investments you are preparing the budget. In such cases, when things are being wasted uncontrolled, uncontrolled, when everything is too little at the start, when the investment is twice as expensive, when it ends three times or four times, then something in this system is wrong. There's no surveillance, there's some other connection, it's anything. And that's not just a construction problem. There's a similar problem in health care. In one case, it was found that there were four-fold irritations or overpayments of a particular medical product. There are 20 or more thousand of these products. Only the one that was dealt with here in the National Assembly at the Commission of Inquiry, then the price was reduced. One resolution on the largest strategic development projects for the period 2007-2023 was adopted. Some Members should probably remember this act because they have such a long mileage. There are many good things written in the projects. Some of these projects have been implemented. Among these projects is a 3A development axis. It is a road from Ljubljana, via Škofljica, Ribnica, Kočevje, to Kolpa, to the border crossing of Petrin. More or less there are no significant obstacles to the key sections of this 3A development axis at once. The continuation of this development belt between the Smrenjans and the Turks, the section is 11km long, except for the forest there is nothing. Interestingly, it is extremely difficult to find funds in such matters. There are no obstacles. It's not a Koro axis, it's not a white axis of that 3rd development axis when you're dealing with a variety of problems. This is a road that passes through the forest more or less. Interestingly, these things move slowly or too slowly. On this road, three major bypasses must be made: for Velika Lašče, Ribnica and Kočevje. I suppose it would take relatively little effort to fit into space, I suppose, but things don't start. However, a lot of efforts are being made where there are problems, where options and new variants need to be made, and the matter can be returned, compensation land sought and so on. So, we don't deal with investments where they might run, but where they don't go. And it spends money on studies, it spends money on research, testing, worms, I don't know, birds and so on. We also have proposals for a nursing hospital here during the amendments, for example. I think that these capacities are almost gone in Slovenia. The government opposes this proposal. We have a proposal to build a home of older citizens in Osilnica in an area that is peripheral, border-based, built-up facility up to the third construction phase, 10 years or more under the roof, in fact to complete, has already been discussed in the National Assembly in a number of respects for this project in previous mandates, including in the previous mandate, but as far as it stands. I don't know what's waiting. I think that such projects, the social projects invested by the State should have to be built mainly in such less pervasive environments. These facilities are, in fact, the only ones you can seriously attach some local employment, a few service activities, some jobs, such as a nurse and so on and so forth. However, it is not possible to build all the homes of older citizens in larger cities, which already have enough other development resources as well as employment opportunities. In this country, whether it is where I come from, or where I come from, my colleague Baković, or some other country's investment in projects that the state invests in, these are social and similar projects, very little. Expecting Slovenia to develop in some way evenly is a complete nonsense. Some of you have said that in order for more money to be invested, you should loosen this fiscal rule a little bit. Look, you can loosen this fiscal rule as much as you want, but more than 100 million euros or 150 can't be withdrawn from this project. But there are 2,000 100 million in Brussels. We have big reserves elsewhere, not in things like this. There's something else about Zippers and that developmental money for the congregations. I think it is the first time that, after a long time, in the Law on the Implementation of the Budget, one has written as much as the real number of the principal, which has also been adopted. This is not only thanks to New Slovenia, as they now speak here. It is correct to say that we have submitted each of our amendments with the same numbers both in the Slovenian Democratic Party and in Novi Slovenija. This is now accepted, whether it will last more than a day, is another question, but I think this is the first time that the congregations will be able, if it does, to receive some important money for their operations. This money, about 10% of the additional increase in principals, is necessary because the part that is additionally devoted to some other matters through the co-financing of various investments represents a percentage or two of the municipality’s assets. But this is where much more is taken, and I think we should keep this matter in the coalition, so that we don't ruin it and reduce it. If I comment on another item, this is with the 170, 180 million euros that are earmarked for climate change. Climate change is a permanent matter. There's nothing like it was yesterday or the day before. And nothing will last today as it will tomorrow, the day after and so on. These things happen. Fighting climate change is fighting windmills in the wind. Because you're not going to stop the time and events associated with this or that. True, we can limit the release of police pollution and so on, but climate change cannot be stopped because the weather will be different this year than it will be next year. This item is similar to the one previously discussed in various studies on long-term care that the Court of Auditors has called for and identified. The amount of money for various groups that will deal with matters within Slovenia, which is not even polluted and is, in fact, a small, marginal problem already in Central Europe, let alone in a European or global case. At the same time, those who advocate doing these things with us are not critical of the world’s greatest polluters. If everyone finds that the main contaminant is China, then you're a climate scientist who deals with climate change, he says you have to look over your fingers a little bit because the country is underdeveloped. The rule applies to everyone. I think that this item, if implemented at this level, will in fact be a net outflow of money, an unintended use of funds. No matter what kind of project you write, this will be a waste of resources. And it would be much better if we spent that money on some serious, real investment than to fund studies. There is nothing in what you are proposing that would allow this budget to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Gregor Perich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I wasn't going to respond, but I think the response is definitely necessary. I would like to address, in particular, the areas of the environment and also the climate change that we have now highlighted. This is positive that we are all starting to deal with this and I believe, as I have already said in my debate, that even at some point the budget will be much better and much more intense than at this moment reflected this reality that we are facing. Nevertheless, we will need some more political time to come to a point where we will all actually be aware of or will be far less aware of this denial. Government representatives have received certain questions, but they no longer have time to respond. I hope that these questions have not been asked precisely because the Government has spent its time to answer them for this purpose. The problem with the waste we have, we probably know why it happened, because at some point the Chinese closed their market or Asia closed it down. We also know that it takes quite some time for Slovenia to respond and to process or process these wastes at home. As far as I know, the Ministry is looking for these solutions in the form of some thermal treatment of those hazardous wastes, and I believe that there will be a solution in a short time. These efforts are ongoing and we are all aware in the National Assembly, after all, we have also seen one such plant, the coalition, the opposition, so that there is certainly information. So there shouldn't be any overemphasis here. As for the flood itself, I come from an area where the sea is flooding more and more. To avoid thinking about it, Mr Matjaž Licher, this is one gentleman who is employed at the Marine Biological Station in Piran, has done analytically to address this problem. You can also find an article on the Internet that he published. If I cut very short, his findings are as follows: the sea level rises about 5 millimetres per year on our coast. Between 1990 and this year, this level has grown by looking at these measurements by a good 10 centimeters. So this trend is unfortunately positive in terms of raising sea level, which means that in Slovenia we will have many challenges in this sense also in the future, because our coast is too low in certain areas. It means that municipalities, with the help of the State, will also have to raise this level, which will also require a number of funds. If the sea were to rise in the future, it would mean that these floods would be more frequent and the effects of these floods would be much worse than they are at this moment. What has been observed in recent times is that the frequency of these floods is increasing. If they have appeared once in the past, today this phenomenon is much sharper, it represents a much longer time, even when an area is flooded. If I touch only Venice. Last Thursday there was a meeting of the Veneto Regional Council, Venice being part of the Veneto region, and there was probably one similar debate, as is now taking place, and a power that is somewhat centred on the right-hand side, led by the League, rejected some amendments that were just addressing this flood issue. And what happened the next time the meeting was concluded? The flood just came, and that palace of theirs actually flooded. This was the first time in the history of Venice that that palace was flooded, something to say. We can keep our eyes closed for a while, but in the final stages of the youth, the children have already overlooked that they do not want to be left with a planet that is screwed. That is why, from this government, this budget and the Ministry of Environment and Space, I rightly expect that everything that needs to be done will be done in order to at least ease the effects of these climate change into some manageable framework, so that our citizens and citizens can be as secure from floods or from anything else that is conditioned by these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The text is by Ambassador Lidija Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Since I have the honor of being the last speaker today, I will be very brief. Nevertheless, I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said on your part, Mr Vice-President, which is not a budget that is without content. The government is burdening the work and burdening the capital with this budget. In the social field, rights have increased significantly. However, 95% of this budget is legally defined and the room of manoeuvre remains as it remains. Nevertheless, the Government provides or follows priorities with this budget. First time. Development – €5.6 billion. I don't think it's ever been that long. Another time. Social State – €2.6 billion. Security – €1.3 billion. Transport — 827 billion. Agriculture – €467 billion. Environment - 400 billion. Culture – 223 billion. I wish, otherwise, that culture is a little bigger, but anyway, I wouldn't want people to feel that what they say in the opposition ranks is true. Because he doesn't. I would also like to see the opposition, which today has repeatedly stressed and reiterated how it is necessary to be responsible, how we must be aware of what is happening to our people, and so on, so that this budget can also be maintained and confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you very much. A replica or a debate? [[advertising from the hall]] Procedurally, please, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Chairman. If I understand correctly, we have not yet come to the debate on the amendments under this item and there will be a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u133	There will be a debate, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u135	Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the general part of the supplementary draft budget will be held on Thursday, 21 November 2019 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 18 November 2019. We are moving to the budgetary user 1537 – Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Slovenians, in place and worldwide, and to discuss the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Support for Slovenians in place and around the world and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the NSI Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1611 – Ministry of Finance and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Payment of Rights and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 1811 – Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to the debate on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of Economic Cooperation and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme for development cooperation and international assistance and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 1912 – the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme the operation of the system for protection and rescue, rescue and assistance and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u136	If the problem is flooding and the rest, then the government should support this amendment, because with this amendment we are increasing the means to protect and rescue. As we can see, the government does not support this amendment. Perhaps also because the Secretary of State Mr Maver had earlier said that what was happening in Venice, where the floods were the worst in 150 years, was a lie. I read to him earlier that the waters in Venice in 1966 were 7 centimeters higher than they are today. And the other thing that is also a lie is the statement by the Secretary of State, the Deputy Minister for Environment and Space that Slovenia is warming twice as fast on average as the world. According to the Ministry of Environment and Space, Slovenia is warming twice as fast on average as the world. Maybe it's because of all the junk you let burn in the open. Surely we have problems with natural grips and resources need to be made available to resolve specific situations. This is why we support the Slovenian Democratic Party to increase its resources for protection and rescue by EUR 3 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2130 – Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and to the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Local Development Infrastructure and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want a word? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Effective Marketing and Promotion of Slovenia and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Amendments to the amendment have been published on the e-club. Anybody want to talk? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2330 – Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and to the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for the Management of Agricultural Lands and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme to address the consequences of natural disasters and the amendment of the NSI Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budgetary user 2431 – The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Infrastructure and the debate on the amendments tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads and the nine amendments of the SDS Group and the six amendments of the NSI Group. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Investment activity on railway infrastructure and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Comrade Miha Kordish, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, chairman. We have tabled this amendment in Levica, desiring to reverse investment in transit and infrastructure in its logic in this country. Infinite money has gone into roads and concrete. The railway, however, is one that has drawn short, although we know that efficient public passenger transport is one of the coal stones of the welfare of citizens and citizens. We also know that sustainable mobility is one of the key measures in the fight against the climate crisis. Specifically, 38 % of CO2 emissions come from road transport, only 1 % from railways. If we are serious about the different slogans of how Slovenia is a green destination and the green country, if we understand what the climate crisis is that knocks on our doors, then we simply cannot go beyond the fact that railway infrastructure continues to remain underfunded. The effects of such policies are clear and bad. There's a growing sheet on the roads. They're increasing the release. Moreover, the number of passengers on Slovenian railways even fell between 2008 and 2016. He is so badly concerned about our track infrastructure and Slovenian railways that the number of passengers on the train has decreased. Colleagues and colleagues, do you think this is normal in the 21st century? The European country of the 21st century. No, of course not. In this budget, we have a real opportunity to address these mistakes, decades of these errors of neglect of railway links, where most of the paper is already ready, this is the mountain railway. This route was built during the time of the then Austro-Hungarian Emperor Franz Joseph 130 years ago. The signalling of this route is 40 years old. Pre-emptive tracks to allow smooth exchange of traffic and faster train flows are too short. Thanks to maintenance, the speed of trains on certain sections is limited to 50 km and, of course, the defects multiply and, of course, the delays multiply. I was a first-hand dealer, but I still did. Specifically on the route of Škofja Loka-Ljubljana. Ironically, just when the resolution was adopted, I think it was in the second half of the previous term. I missed that session. I Am Late — Why? Because I missed the train. I don't know how it is in other parts of the country, but at least in Gorenjska, the delays of the Slovenian Railways were born. They became a human joke. No one takes the schedule seriously. You go to the website of the Slovenian Railways, there you look a little bit at when the train is taking, and you take it over your thumb as a calculation. You're playing a little raffle. How can we expect people from road traffic to migrate to the track if such a basic thing as the accuracy of the train, when it comes in and out of the station, is not assured? And then there's the joy on the track. In the meantime, the train breaks down, or there is a locomotive waiting for two hours, or maybe a freight train is late on the other side and you're waiting and standing at a train station in Medvode for 10 minutes, 20 minutes so the trains can cross. We should be talking today about how the mountain track will get two tracks. Not about updating one for which our amendment provides funds. To get two tracks. From the practice of this National Assembly, I know that, except at the level of shallow rhetoric, the welfare of citizens and citizens – in this particular case, that you have a comfortable, accurate, reliable, fast rail transport – is not of interest to most Members and Members. Except when it looks a little bit like we're gonna have to go to the polls. But maybe that's why the following argument convinces you. And I'll just be happy, even if we say that the accuracy of a public passenger train is therefore a positive side effect, just as it is. The track of the mountains, this one single, lonely track is our key link to the north to Austria and beyond. From Kranj forward to Jesenica, this route is already 90 % occupied. But you want economic growth, you want nice numbers to turn around to fill the budget bit. You also like to boast about Slovenia's export economy. How will you export anything if you physically have no space on the railway to send this goods quickly and effectively abroad? Well, maybe we still have that 10% joke that the situation isn't so acute yet, it's not as if it's so swollen. Given that a large part of the documentation for the Gorenje track has been made, it is crucial that these past pre-smoker efforts be followed by budgetary resources. That's why we tabled an amendment in Levica. One to the 2020 budget, which also received support from the Committee on Finance, the other to the 2021 budget. Together with them, we provide €70 million, which the project to modernise the mountain line needs bloodyly. Next year we say, give 30 million, a year later we give 40 million to update the mountain line. Yes, the total investment is estimated and framed to EUR 113 million plus VAT, and the difference between 70 and 113 plus VAT can be covered from budget 2022. After all, it is the opponents of this amendment and such a correction of the budget for the benefit of rail transport that say that everything is not yet set up and that we do not need all this money immediately. And the following year, a year later, we will provide €70 million for this period, and the rest can come with a delay in 2022. These years aren't just one whim. Upgrading of the mountain line was envisaged because work on the caravan tunnel is taking place simultaneously. To ensure that the entire infrastructure vein is not blocked twice so that it can only be done once, it is extremely important that these two projects, Karavanke plus the modernisation of the mountain railway, coincide. I didn't make that up either, it was a state idea, a state strategy, it just needs to be implemented. Otherwise, we'll pay the consequences with interest. Just like they all are now. As a result of the underserved investments, more specifically, non-investment in railway infrastructure is then declining the number of passengers on Slovenian railways. That all the letters, initiatives that have come to the public and brought them to the door of the Ministry of Infrastructure from local communities, mayors and all the other interested ones also bear witness. The municipalities of Gorenjska, very specifically, I think that one of the more vocal in the public debate is the municipality of Radovljica, they have in their budgets reserved funds with which, in agreement with the country, they will finance access to line and outpost facilities in the context of this reconstruction of the mountain railway. Now what? It is not that the municipalities cannot make budgets if these amendments for railways are not accepted, they will have to do so. Local communities throughout Goreńska were prepared to devote their resources and are already undernourished, and were prepared to devote their resources to re-engineering and updating the mountain railway. For good reason, I've listed them as something in this particular debate. Despite the fact that this was an agreed issue, despite the fact that local budgets have already been adopted, in a beautiful way, I really don't know how to tell you, I can't find it, and I don't understand why the government would do it for it by the Ministry of Infrastructure to make a serious item for the modernisation of the railway line fall out of the budget. A tunnel is being built, the railway should be updated at the same time, so that it is not two stoppers, that there is only one local community with reserved funds, and then the government takes its own budget plans into its own hands, takes the red sphere and crosses. And the update on the railway line is gone. According to the Government’s departmental representatives, only the immediate future has shifted. But in this country we have plenty of examples of how temporary shifts of vitally needed projects into the urgent future become permanent, and this urgent future becomes a distant future. How something has been done effectively, and there is a shortage of good practices in our country and government in times of such examples. If we get enough votes for these two of our amendments, which can revitalise the mountain railway, it will be one of the good practices of a limited number, ploughing good practices as to how it is done. And by 2022, maybe by 2023, we're giving some maneuverable space here, the mountain railway can be updated and the project carried out as it was intended. The years I mention also provide for a sectoral resolution adopted by the National Assembly to be updated by 2022. This resolution also states that most of the work will take place in 2020 and 2021. How the hell do these things get done and done if there's no money for them? An update really does not foresee anything so drastic. No, this isn't about building a second mountain track, no matter how crazy I want it to be today's debate. I'm talking about the construction of undercarriage, connections that can replace often dangerous line crossings, which may require some train to drive a little bit slower to update the long-lasting train stations to arrange the signal so that it doesn't continue to go to church, to update the track and so on. Unfortunately, we are not talking about a comprehensive repair of mountain transport in the direction of sustainable mobility, but a train on which you will sit and you will be practically at any end of the mountain in Ljubljana in 15 minutes, and in the meantime you will have a wi-fi. Unfortunately, we are not talking about this, we are talking about much more fundamental cocks that we need to set up so that we can have this kind of traffic on the track for the benefit of the passenger, for the benefit of the environment at all times. The upgrade of this mountain line, its modernisation from the perspective of the entire budget, does not really cost money. That's not the second track for 1.2 billion. The total amount shall be a good 100 million. And this is a vital contribution to the effective functioning of rail transport in Gorenjska. A little while ago, not long ago in this mandate, we discussed at a meeting of the working body on the construction of the highway ring around Ljubljana, another ring, czech, traffic is increasing, the number of cars on the roads is increasing, and we must now start preparing and investing in concrete and asphalt in every way in order to draw another round around Ljubljana. But this is the thing about traffic, about mobility – the road only feeds itself. When you pull more roads, pull a wider road, you will pull another round around Ljubljana – what will you get? More car traffic. When you take care of a railway that costs somewhere there, there, like a highway, the flow of passengers and daily migrations that go on the train and not on the road will increase. People come in faster, more comfortable, not nervous because they're waiting for the dropouts. Studies that have been made specifically for the Ljubljana urban region, which is a little unfortunate name if we want to look geographically, because this covers practically the whole heart of Slovenia, say that the number of passengers on Slovenian railways, or the number of passengers who withdraw from the road, would increase by 100 % with a serious modernisation of the railway network on certain routes. Do you know which one is, if not even the first one, of the links we find in these studies to increase the number of passengers most quickly? Kranj-Ljubljana. It's a mountain track. Firstly, we do not need any more motorways around Ljubljana. Where the roads are actually needed, there is a Slovenian periphery where you do not normally come with the car, but only to think about the railway tracks there, and so on. Let's put the road down for those ends first. But such an end is not central Slovenia. A railway investment is needed in central Slovenia. The first investment that needs to happen is the first route to receive this investment is the mountain railway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Member Zvona Černač also wants the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u140	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have also tabled an amendment to the mountain line. This investment is significantly more justified than the construction of the Divača-Koper over ten times lower value. It is included in the Strategy for the Development of Transport of the Republic of Slovenia in a Timetable as mentioned above. In this strategy, we can read that the 2030 projection is over 13 million tons of cargo transported across this railway. By comparison: the second track 19 million and 3 million 300,000 passengers along the mountain railway. By comparison, the second track is only 700,000 passengers. This amendment is more than justifiable. The project is ready to go, less than 115 million in two years, and also feasible. Also important is this timeline, which is supposed to be held simultaneously with the construction of another tunnel tube of the Karavanka tunnel.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to a budget user of 2550 – the Ministry of Environment and Space and to a discussion on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion a sub-programme of support activities in the field of environmental policy and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme for Water Management and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme on waste management and the amendment of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Housing activity and the two amendments of the SDS Group and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Blackbell, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u142	The coalition has written in a contract that it will spend 0.4% of GDP per year on housing activities, which means about 160 million euros. Some of this money is in the budget, so we are proposing 150 million euros for housing. If the projects that the current government is forecasting for the coming years are to be implemented, these resources will still be needed. By proposing that the coalition implements a treaty that it has signed itself. Our amendment that raises housing funds for all areas to 0.4% of GDP, as you yourself have written in the coalition contract, is in favour of these realities.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving to a budget user of 2555 – the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water and the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Water Management and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2611 – Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and to the debate on the amendments tabled in this budget user. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme Creation of Jobs and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme of the Fellowship and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting into discussion the sub-programme of Social Protection Programmes and the four amendments of the SDS Group and the amendment of the Levica Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Go ahead, Siter. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Good evening. We're talking about the power of important programs, social security programs that we can say, and I'm not exaggerating, they save lives. We are talking about the basic members of the social protection system, in which only in the past year there were poor 160,000 users. There's no mistake in saying that if I repeat that social security programs save lives. We are talking about the most vulnerable groups, the homeless, the victims of violence and so on, which are included in these programmes, which, although legally defined as a complement to public social protection services, but in fact are in many cases some basic social welfare services offered by the State. The problem they face in this area is the fact that although these programmes are subject to substantive, professionally committed people, experts, the problem is that the crisis in their operations has been going on since 2011 and since before they received austerity measures, things have not changed for them since then. However, experts in these programmes are fleeing abroad due to poor salaries and poor working conditions. And that there is no social drama or social bomb in this area, we simply suggest that these funds increase to the extent proposed by the amendment. So much for a little while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. I am also putting into discussion the sub-programme Long-term care and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the NSI Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk? Comrade Siter, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you very much. We are back in long - term care or in nursing homes. The number allocated to the 2020 budget in this particular area is very modest if I am kind in my vocabulary, or shameful if I can tell you the truth. 14 million, which, given the demographic picture and the indicators pointing to the future in this area, will not solve any problem. The network of public institutions, home for older citizens, is not only broken, but in total chaos. There's no way he's responding to the current need, that's 11,000 waiting people. Yesterday, the Minister of Labour and I exchanged a dialogue with the Member's question where she reminded me that we do not count double requests and those people who send requests to different ends to different homes. No, that number is actually worse. Eleven thousand people are waiting right now. 54 thousand requests are currently under consideration, and the network at home for the elderly cannot address the problem at this time. The country has been in total ignorance for the past 14 years, as far as solving this problem is concerned. People are waiting. There is one single bed available in homes all over the country. In Croatia, homes are filled with Slovenian elderly people. The professional staff from Slovenian homes for the elderly flees to Austria. The situation is catastrophic. At this point in time, the government is spending 14 million, which is enough to fix a roof, and to falsify a facade, what cosmetic correction to make. No way, though, this is not a solution to save the demographics that would address the need of 11,000 people. No concrete building of a new home for the elderly can be expected from such a conservative figure. I hope and wish that the Government will take this issue more seriously in the future, at least with this promised long-term care law, which is to come once by the end of the term or by the end of the year or by November or by April. We've heard all these stories. To wipe out the government and finally to see that the granting of concessions, as has been the case in these 14 years, is not the solution. It's business. It's a good business for a few individuals to be pompous and then their poufs are paid by caregivers, caregivers, their families, local communities and all those who pay for their overpriced accommodations, which are sometimes paid twice. I sincerely hope that the government will approach this matter more strategically. Unless, of course, its Members confirm this amendment, which is intended for an additional 60 million over the course of both years, which is a need on the ground, calculated as a number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate. We are moving to the budget user 2613 – the Slovenian Labour Inspectorate and to the debate on the amendment tabled for this budgetary user. I am putting to the debate a sub-programme on Labour Management and Control and the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors. Anybody else want to discuss this? Ambassador Miha Kordish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, chairman. For five years, the second term is now under way, and I am already in the National Assembly, and at that time the amendment, which increases funds for labour inspection, has become practically folklore. We've given it to every budget, it's never been adopted. Every time the Labour Committee, social or anything else has been held in the National Assembly, it may have been heard, "no, no, we really don't need any more legal regulation in order to replace deviations and cases of illegal exploitation, we need better, stronger, more rigorous control, and such an ugly practice will not happen." But they've come back to the budget or to the budget rebalancing, we've always wanted the work inspection to allocate additional funds. And every time the same MPs who have interpreted a lot in committee budgets, in public, in plenary meetings of the National Assembly, how do we not need better laws to protect the worker, but more control, vote against our amendment in order to implement what? More control, better control over worker protection. This time we propose raising funds in 2020 for a labour inspection of €1 million. We have recently discussed the annual report of the work of the work inspection for 2018. This report has the same laitmotivities as the previous reports that have come from the work inspection: lack of staff, malnutrition, inability to manage the number of economic operators to be covered by the labour inspection. And this is the only body in this country that a working class can turn to in search of their rights. To whom does the worker benefit if, due to the inability of the work inspectorate, which is overloaded in a thousand and one ways, the inspectorate does not act as it should. Because the frame is missing when it's overloaded, it's burned. The past direction of the inspectorate under the previous head of Mrs Natasa Trček was that instead of in-depth dealing with the most controversial cases, which could serve as a warning to the public, what all the work inspectors know, was followed by a number hunt. The work inspectors have been ordered to unlock as many cases as possible on paper, and everything will be fine. Which is an absolutely wrong strategy, even if you have the good 40 labour market inspectors, who somehow have to brush through and monitor the working laws of 215 thousand legal persons, companies that are larger, smaller, who call themselves employers. How are 40 working inspectors supposed to share this? He can't. The Chief Inspector can also say, and he is right to say that in order for a quality inspector to be built in service, it takes a lot of time, a lot of energy to get to know his work, that he has a clear administration behind the laufa. Thanks to the last report on the operation of the work inspection, this is why – and I am pleased – we are no longer talking about the direct employment of additional work inspectors, but we can talk about the introduction of some role of assistant to which people can enter and are at the inspectorate for some time. During this time, they carry out that illegal administration, which is not necessarily one and unnecessary, but it is necessary to build such cases of persecution against workers who then endure the Ministry of Labour’s judicial opinion, which is the complaint of the Instalment. During all this time, they are also very well prepared and organically prepared to eventually step into the shoes of the work inspector. But this institution already exists on paper and will remain on paper if the inspectorate does not have the money to take additional people under his wing. And it's directly like working inspectors or junior inspectors who help and support more skilled personnel. More. At the same time as the government buys armored vehicles and these amounts move in six-digit numbers, seven-digit numbers, the labour inspectorate asks for some basic means of transport, for a few cars, nothing luxurious, only so that the inspector can go to the industrial zone and do his work with the service vehicle as necessary. I'd love to say yes, but I can get on the train, but I spent a few minutes ago making sure that the train is a good thing, but that I have to invest in it at all, and I'm only afraid that I'm you, colleagues and colleagues, as Cankar would say, I think, metal pearls to pigs. In short, the work inspectorate needs some kind of base of the rolling stock, the basics with which it can work. These aren't armored cars. These are not the 6x6 waves you want to buy out of budget lines, we don't really know whose, we haven't been able to explain it yet, but these purchases have been found in the budget. That's what the money was for. And for an extra weaponry for NATO. There's no money for the work inspectorate because, hey – who in this country is the smug worker? Except before the election. Even then, we are completely lonely when we talk about labour rights, about the persecution of workers' rights violators, about the need for support for the trade union organisation of the working class. Everyone else prefers solidarity, social justice, rather than a just redistribution of this created wealth, which in our society comes as a fruit and result of working hands and working brains, rather than a reallocation, you show a just transfer of this created thing across the border and say, "Look at him, refugee!" Excuse me, migrant. That's closer. And there's a fence there for millions that drowns people in Kolpa. Now, tell me, what does a Slovenian worker get out of this? Nothing at all. The only one with any of this is the guy who supplied the fence. He's probably a friend of someone. However, when it comes to the protection of the labour interests most directly, the level of wages, that already existing labour legislation is respected, which is the responsibility of the only serious competent inspectorate of the Labour Inspectorate, for which the money normally falls from the budget to the budget, from the amendment to the amendment. Maybe I'm doing some wrongs here. However, in the last 2018 elections, the National Assembly's crew has turned a little bit and has changed, and this may also change the happiness of the Labour Inspectorate, and our amendment, which provides the necessary resources for human resources and for something else, will be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-11-19-SDZ8-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. With this I also interrupt the 2nd item of the agenda and the meeting of the assembly, which we will continue tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night and good night.
