ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: only Bevk from 2 p.m. on, Nada Brinovšek, Jelka Godec, Eva Irgl and Bojan Podkoršek, and I will be absent from 16 p.m. on my own. I have invited the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government to the first item of the agenda, Dr Marjan Odar, the Director of the Slovenian Institute for Audit, to the 26th item of the agenda, the representative of the Council at the 27th item of the agenda, and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. Once again a nice greeting to all present! Dear Members and honourable Members, we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 12th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday, 11 October 2019, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of an item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. Therefore, I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference. Dear Members and honourable Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're moving on to a day-to-day decision. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. We voted for the agenda. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 12th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received 54 questions from the Member States in writing within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the arrangements of the leaders of the groups of Members of the Council of 13 November 2018. The first three questions will be answered by the President of the Government, members of the opposition, Members of the Left Group and Members of the ruling coalition. Each Member or Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request for a reply shall be provided by the Member in two minutes and the reply shall be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister, without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral response, in which case I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, Mr Boštjan Poklukar, Minister of the Interior, apologized today. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. Mr Marjan Sarec will answer the first five questions. The first question will be asked by Mr Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Council of Ministers, distinguished Mr. President of the Government! European funds, European Structural and Investment Funds are practical our Slovenian only grant development funds, and we simply do not know how to draw them effectively enough. We are practically the sixth worst country since the European funds were drawn. In this multi-annual financial perspective that is running out – watch out! – Next year, Slovenia has 3 billion and 68 million euros. The implementation we discussed at the Committee on European Union Affairs on Friday is extremely poor and worrying. By the end of June this year, Slovenia had absorbed only one quarter of the available resources. However, if I look at a particular eastern cohesion region, which is only 70% of the European region's average development, the result is truly catastrophic, about 15% of the draw. Mr President, I'm interested in a few things. In what way will you, as Prime Minister of the Government, and what measures will you take to make Slovenia more effective in drawing on these only grants? Where do you see the problem? Or in the governing body, i.e. in the SVRK, or perhaps in the intermediate bodies, but here I am referring to the ministries? Which ministry do you think is the most problematic? Why is the drawing system accompanied by so many administrative and bureaucratic obstacles, Mr President? Are all these bureaucratic requirements truly prescribed by the European Union or are they complicated by themselves? If the answer is yes, I want to know: Why don't you unload these procedures? And that's what I'm interested in, Mr. President: How are the negotiations now under way in the new financial framework and how much of Slovenia's resources can account for in the next multi-annual financial perspective? We support your support for more cohesion funds, for more rural development funds, and I am interested in: How many do you have in your colleagues, heads of government within the EU 27, those heads of government who are following you in your efforts? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you for the question, honourable Member. The first question is why Slovenia is so poor in European funds and why we are not paying more attention to it. Slovenia does not deviate significantly from other Member States in the implementation of cohesion policy, as according to the European Court of Auditors it is 3.1% behind for the EU. It is true that this is still not satisfactory and by the end of 2018 Slovenia had received a 24.2% share of the European budget compared to the other Member States. In February this year, the National Assembly took note of the Report on the implementation of the European Cohesion Policy 2014-2020, which shows that the drawdown rate reached 16% at the end of 2018. The data show that since then the drawdown intensity has increased to 26.4% at the end of September. We expect a slightly better result by the end of the year, as in recent months the dynamics and value of payments from the Slovenian budget and, as a result, from the European cash register have increased significantly. It should also be noted that in 2014 and 2015 Slovenia dealt mainly with funds from the 2007-2013 programming period. This is those famous eleven projects that came later in the implementation. Implementation of projects and programmes is in full progress. From January 2014 to the end of August 2019, €2.52 billion of financial support decisions were issued for projects, programmes or calls for proposals, representing 82% of the available resources. This is the part financed by the European Union. By the end of August 2019, Slovenia had submitted €779 million of requests to the European Commission and 25% of available funds to the European Commission, raising to €812 million at the end of September, representing 26.4% of all available funds. As far as bureaucratic barriers are concerned, in 2015 Slovenia adopted a Regulation on the use of European cohesion policy funds in the Republic of Slovenia during the 2014-2020 programming period, as well as all the accompanying amendments to the Regulation specifying the participants, their tasks, European cohesion policy planning, the way in which operations are selected, their validation and the implementation of operations. So we are bound by these rules laid down by the Regulation. How important it is that the system works effectively, transparently and above all that it is user-friendly. This would also make us faster and more efficient in terms of drawing on European funds. Of course, the procedure is not as simple as you would like it to be. The system of use of European funds is complex and covers several stages. Five of them include, inter alia, the evaluation of applications for the approval of European funds for individual public tendering, the implementation of procedures such as calls for proposals and contracts, the selection of project implementation, the information system. Only phase four represents fund-raising. The final phase of the fifth phase is the verification of requests by the European Commission and the payment of appropriations from the European Union budget to the accounts of the Bank of Slovenia. It is also audited by the European Court of Auditors as part of the final budget transactions of the European Union and depends on all previous phases. Following the publication of the proposals for the next Multiannual Framework 2021, what relates to the new Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027 is being negotiated on this important dossier in the final phase only this autumn. Now we have started a political debate in the last European Council last Friday, when the word was particularly about the question of how big a multi-annual budget we want. Slovenia insists on such a high number as the Commission has presented, because we are not for a reduction. However, concrete negotiations are not expected until December. Before that, the Finnish Presidency is expected to finally present a negotiating framework with numbers in the coming weeks and then negotiations can begin. Given the fact that real negotiations have not yet begun, it is too early to speak in the final bargaining round. But it is true that, above all, the net wages are on the side that it is necessary [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. I have a feeling that the Member of Parliament will want to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. The matter is too serious to smile on such an important subject as the drawing up of the only grants. Mr President Marjan Sarec, you have not responded to me with any concrete action to speed up. As early as 2014, Members of Parliament had stepped up the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on the Economy when we adopted the decision and committed ourselves to all governments - and it is good that you respect this - to report quarterly to us. You mentioned the Court of Auditors. Of course, we were also concerned, Mr Only Jereb, a member of the European Court of Auditors, was very clear about the poor use of European funds in Slovenia. That today in the third millennium we are saying that the information system is a problem, look, we should have put it on the agenda a long time ago. But there is something, Mr. First Minister, if someone, then you, who have been a long-standing mayor, are probably the only ones in the government who understand what it means to have virtually no access to development funds. We have the right to drinking water in the constitution. I can list a few congregations where they do not yet have this right to drinking water. The agreement for the development of the regions simply does not work, has not yet come to life. A number of new questions, which indeed, Mr President, I expect very concrete answers, if possible equipped with a timeline.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you for allowing me to continue where I ended up. If we focus on cohesion policy, this should be reduced by 10%, as proposed by the Commission in the European Union budget. For Slovenia, the Commission proposed around 9% lower envelopes than for 2014-2020, i.e. €3.07 billion. However, due to some of the objective reasons already mentioned, such as the availability of newer statistical data on the development of countries and regions, the pressure of some Member States to reduce the scope of the multi-annual financial framework, these are net salaries, and cohesion funds in the European Union budget, and the fact that a relatively favourable transitional regime in the area of the allocation of cohesion funds is being exhausted for Western Slovenia as a whole. Therefore, our priorities for these negotiations include: 1. maintaining the scope of cohesion funds at a level comparable to that of the European Commission; 2. a favourable solution to the situation of Western Slovenia, which will receive significantly fewer cohesion funds in the future; and 3. reducing the fall of the Common Agricultural Policy funds, in particular rural development funds. The government has already prepared itself for these negotiations. As for the measures, yes, we had problems with the information system. In recent months, several application upgrades have been carried out, such as the extension of the application functionality in reporting participants to the operation, the change in the operation of certain system controls that prevent the submission of incomplete requests, and the change in the calculation of the value of certain data. The development and establishment of the e-MA information system is also one of the main priorities in the action plan to accelerate the absorption of funds from the operational programme of the European Cohesion Policy 2014-2020. Activities are almost fully completed. I repeat, it is essential that he is more user-friendly, while at the same time his functionality has improved. A reporting system has been developed to allow external users to access the reports. We are further aware that education in this area is also important for successful pumping, and we are already doing so. So the measures in the information system, which was also one of the major obstacles that went so slowly, were taken, some are still missing, but as soon as possible this will also be done. And yet, education, there are many projects that are not well prepared and then there are problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you, Mr President, for supplementing the response. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The almost three-hour debate at Friday's meeting of the European Union Affairs Committee, where we discussed the report, showed that one of the key issues at this time is how to draw as effectively as possible 3 billion and 68 million euros? Mr President, the Committee on Foreign Policy and the Committee on European Union Affairs have somehow agreed with the Government's position that you are trying to get as many supporters on the European Council as possible of what Slovenia advocates. This is said to be a 10% reduction in cohesion funds and a 10% reduction in resources for the common agricultural policy and rural development by minus 15%, as this will strongly impact the Republic of Slovenia. The debate on this at the meeting of the National Assembly, which the Rules of Procedure allow me to do, is necessary. If we look at the inconsistent development of our Slovenia, these findings, these data actually show the urgency of immediate action. Once again, Eastern Slovenia is only at 70% of the European Union's average development, Western, thank God, at 102% of the European Union's average development. The problem is that this gap is increasing from year to year, and our rural areas are being lost. True, it is, and I will repeat it a hundred times, obviously from Ljubljana to the periphery. We should actually open up a debate here, not only on drawing on European funds, but also on coherent regional development, which we simply do not know how to implement. Therefore, my fellow Members and colleagues, I believe that tomorrow in the vote you will support this proposal, that we will, as Members once again, in 2014, give the Government the impetus to draw on European funds to do so also in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Victory Jelinčič noble, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The Western European Union has ceased its foolish pursuit of climate affairs and has turned to a new path, the so-called ‘Germans neue Seidenstrasse’, a new silk road. Slovenia is nowhere involved in this new silk route. That's why I'm asking you, President: How will Slovenia, in view of its position, become involved in this Silk Road, in connection with Western Europe, with the eastern part of Europe, in order not to be pushed aside? The Croatians are working intensively on the construction of land waterways, which is now intended to build a channel between Vukovar and Slavonska Šabc, that is to say, they will connect Donava and Savo to shorten this Danube route, because the Danube route is going to central Europe. Slovenia could join this Danube route, but it is interesting that our ministers or ladies ministers do nothing in this area. The Slovenian national party sent Mrs Bulchev a study on this matter, and we also gave it to Mrs Alenka Bratušek, but nothing is happening in this regard. There is also nothing going on with connection of ports in the so-called Poseidon Trirog Koper-Trst-Reka, where the only possible option is to connect this through a common route through Divaca and upwards. At the OECD, where I have recently been, I must say, they expect Slovenia to be required to make some analyses, to weigh some paths, some new paths, some bigger projects, and to start doing something about it. The Slovenian ministries are lagging behind, doing nothing, and I don't think they have any contact with the OECD, which is an extremely strong economic organisation that supports this economic development. It is interesting that all these projects could be included in the future Presidency of the European Union. There are certain major strategic projects that Europe can confirm. Thus, Slovenia could position itself differently than if we were to talk only about human rights there, human rights here and so on. I ask, Mr President: Will you call on the government level any broader meeting of all those who should be affected in this matter, and will they start doing anything in this direction?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you so much for asking. China is continuing its project to revive the former Silk Road between Europe and China. It is a so-called Belt and Road Initiative initiative. This is a strategic Chinese integration project with Europe, the Middle East and Africa, covering 65 countries, representing 60% of the world's population and around a third of the world's GDP. By 2015, the Chinese Development Bank had committed $890 billion for about 900 projects, adding $124 billion in 2017. In November 2017, at the edge of the 16 plus one summit, China, the Eastern and Central European countries signed a core document on this initiative in Budapest. This was signed by Minister Restoration. By signing this document and participating in initiative 17 plus one – Greece joined the initiative in Dubrovnik this year – Slovenia is focusing on concrete projects that focus on strengthening trade in goods. China is the most important trading partner of Slovenia in Asia. In 2018, trade between countries amounted to EUR 314 million. This is a 12% growth, which ranks China 13th among the most important trading partners. Also in the first half of 2019, there is a 11% increase in exchange. In 2017, 475 Slovenian companies were exported to China, and 12 thousand 581 Slovenian companies were imported from China. Specific Slovenian products are present on the Chinese market. Let's mention just a few: diet, milk, honey, fish cans, poultry, pork, wine, drug registration, this is Krka, production and sale of ultra light aircraft, development and software support for super computer systems at the Faculty of Computer Science and Informatics, development of components for transport and so on. In order to strengthen Slovenian exports to China, it is necessary to identify new market niches for high value added products that will bear transport costs as well as competition on the Chinese market. We know that the market is organised differently there, there are some protectionist measures and there is a fairly regulated market. As regards connectivity, it should also be pointed out that the Chinese market is also an important market for Luca Koper. By Luke Koper, already more goods are being transferred in both directions, and the Chinese market represents a great potential for growth and development in the future. The port of Koper represents the shortest transport route for goods destined for Central and Eastern Europe. The participation of Luka Koper with the Chinese market in the container segment is the greatest opportunity, which Slovenia is working primarily to support the visibility of the Koper and North Adriatic transport routes in Chinese freight forwarders and exporters. Slovenia also actively participates in all major events of the initiative and initiative 17 plus 1 and also helps to strengthen cooperation in various areas through political meetings. We are also aware of the need to develop a common EU approach, which will follow the fundamental principles of true democracy, human rights, the rule of law, transparency and accountability, to take advantage of the opportunities offered by cooperation with China. We want to strengthen cooperation mainly in transport and logistics, high technologies, tourism, the food industry, new materials, alternative energy generation, waste and water management. However, it must also be said that the larger countries of the European Union are not too willing to cooperate in this initiative, but Slovenia will do as it is in the Slovenian interest. I can therefore partly agree with you that it is not always possible to follow the larger countries of the European Union, but also to pursue their own interests.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u16	Well, I was delighted by this final conclusion that the Slovenian interest should be pursued. That's not what it used to be. We've always nodded to the European Union. You were talking about China, and you started at one end. That important part is the transport route in the middle. If Slovenia does not join through its position on the northern Adriatic and Danube coast, we will be hanged. Traffic routes were to cross the northern German ports and via Suez-Greece-Italy and Slovenia was evacuated here. This is why it is necessary to make a project here that Slovenia will include in this European project, along inland waterways as well as on the railway, simply put. These transport routes are very important. If we don't have them, we won't. The fact is, they want to push us away and the common European approach does not take Slovenia into account in this matter. If I say just one thing, let's say the assembly in 1992 has reconsidered the possibility of linking the Danube basin by water with the Adriatic Sea. The Italians and the Hungarians were prepared to take part in the matter, and then it died. In fact, this is a matter already initiated by the Assembly of the former Socialist Republic of Slovenia. Why don't we raise these issues at the European level and start addressing them a little wider? After all, let us stop thinking about everyone else and let us think about our own country. As far as these transport routes are concerned, the cheapest, most simple and infrastructure we make when we build these transport routes remains forever and can always be used.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u18	As I said, we will pursue Slovenian interest, but there is always a balance between China as a partner and China as a contestant. We know that there are also broad debates at the level of the European Union on this. Different countries have different opinions. As far as the transport routes are concerned, we will do the most if we build a second track so that Luka Koper can function in full blood. Since Luka Koper is certainly, as I said before, an important partner for imports as well as exports. And here it would be most important to build on this second track and become more competitive and thus allow for a greater overload. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I would like to ask that we discuss this matter here in the National Assembly, so that some matters can be clarified. I hope that the National Assembly will confirm this debate and that we will also listen to the reflections of certain ministers or ministers for whom I fear they will not be very weighty. After all, I must say that I have given quite a number of studies to Mrs Violeti Bulc and to Mrs Alenka Bratušek. Like I said, nothing happened. That is why I will make little use of this, and I will give one piece of this paper to Mr Tramtete, the Secretary-General, to keep him entertained, and consider perhaps calling a ministerial meeting, which would also be attended by experts from these areas. Perhaps it would be good to call other, foreign experts, because, it seems, there are very few in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We are voting on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Now I'm teaching the word "magic." Carmen Furman. Madam Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! In September, a published audit of the Court of Auditors showed that the state of welfare in our country is critical. The fact is that people's difficulties are increasing every day, since the government or the competent ministries have not taken any action in this area in the last ten years to improve the situation. Even the opposite. Instead of preparing and adopting a law on long-term care that would regulate this area systematically, the Court of Auditors notes that the Government or the Ministry of Labour of the Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and the Ministry of Health spend as much as EUR 74 and a half million on useless studies and pilot projects, of which those in need will not benefit. In its audit, the Court noted, inter alia, that the project and studies for which EUR 74 and a half million of public money are allocated have neither the content nor the objectives to be achieved with these projects. According to the Court of Auditors, these projects should only be carried out on some of the ideas of ministries, rather than addressing the problems of the existing social care system with this money. Today we have more than 11,000 people waiting for a bed at home, but since 2007, the country has not built one home for the elderly. According to the budget you have prepared in your government, even in the coming years, the country will obviously not build a home. However, with money for various studies and pilot projects, ten homes could be built for the elderly. When the Court of Auditors today points out the inefficiency of the system, it points to the reckless purpose of spending public money, unfortunately, the coalition is moving forward. With reference to the extraordinary meeting and the proposals for recommendations, we wanted the Slovenian Democratic Party to explore the real purpose and transparency of spending public money. But it's public money, so it's only right that people find out what they're using for. In view of the fact that our recommendations at the meeting were not voted on and we have not received any concrete answers, I would like to ask: Will your government remain silent, or will you, in the light of the Court of Auditors' findings, carry out an audit on the purpose of spending 74 million and a half euros of public money? Will the government investigate who is responsible for such an economic waste of public money? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you for asking. There has been a lot of talk in this room about the things you are asking. The broader debate also took place last Thursday at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Different opinions were heard between the views of the groups. You all agreed that we should be more concerned than the Court of Auditors' findings on the ground. It has also been heard that so far too much time has been spent and that we need immediate action if we are to respond in a qualitative and timely manner to the problems and challenges of long-lived society. I fully agree on that. I'm not running from the fact that social services are limping. I'm sure you don't. However, it would be good to go one by one. First of all, false allegations of spending 74.5 million euros on studies. It's not about spent, it's about planned money, it's not about some paper studies, it's about concrete investments in infrastructure. Of course, part of this is also envisaged for tests of the appropriateness of solutions in the area of long-term care. This is a project of transformation of the special social welfare institution in Kras and the training, work and protection centres from Montenegro to Koroška, together with an additional 140 new cities. A project is also planned to co-finance the Community services infrastructure, which seeks to ensure an improved supply of services for older people and their property. Under the project, 30 additional units are envisaged. This year and next year, with the assistance of co-financing of the Ministry of Labour, 80 additional jobs will be provided in existing homes for the elderly, in particular for persons with dementia. Also in the coming years, more than 600 additional beds are expected to be provided on the basis of an invitation to tender for home concessions. Most additional facilities or new homes for the elderly are built by concessionaires. On the basis of the invitation to tender published in 2017, an additional 538 cities are expected by the end of 2020. This is about the lack of capacity problem. I will add that the European guidelines for development in this area, which focus on the development of community services and on the reallocation of institutional protection capacities into community forms, are guiding us towards dedicated consumption. Another time. With regard to the apparent fact that the Government for the Homes for the Elderly is only making symbolic contributions, I will repeat the fact. Next year we will spend €5 million to invest in homes for the elderly. The amount is not symbolic. If I add that in 2016, the country earmarked only EUR 345 000 for older people's homes, and in 2017 it did not. Third time. The problem we know in Slovenia is that we do not have a uniform system regime in the area of long-term care and we face fragmentation and inequality in access to services. That is why we need a new law on long-term care. I think we all agree on that. The Ministry of Health, as the holder of this project, follows the Government's normative work programme, which sets April 2020 as the deadline for the adoption of the law. I have also talked about substantive solutions, this time I would only point out that long-term care will be an integrated service that will intertwine with the social and health care system and thus ensure the integrated treatment of what it needs. In doing so, it is very important that no one should be excluded, which means ensuring comparable accessibility of beneficiaries in all environments.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. Would you like a supplement, Madam Ambassador? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your answer, Mr President of the Government, but I must say that your response, given the fact that you are the Prime Minister, is unacceptable. Again, a bit misleading data on the EUR 5 million earmarked for homes for the elderly in the coming years in the budget. You know, it's not even enough to build one home for the elderly, and we have over 11,000 who need a bed in such homes. This is about the Court of Auditors' findings, not some political party, which, however, must be respected, but especially taken into account. After all, it is an independent state authority which has a public authority to supervise the economy of public spending. Let me also remind you, Mr President of the Government, that in the time before the national elections, it was you who spoke about how you would prevent such anomalies. You sold yourself as some kind of new political face that enters politics in order to eliminate such irregularities. You talked about a new policy, and then you made a coalition agreement with the parties that have ruled for the last ten years. With this you have lost your credibility because it is these coalition partners that are responsible for the long-term care situation today. When you were appointed Prime Minister, you said, among other things, that you would take responsibility. So today I'm wondering: Are you actually going to take responsibility and, in view of the Court of Auditors' findings in this case, launch an audit on the purpose of spending 74 million and half euros of public money and examine who is responsible for such a purpose of spending public money? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u28	Thank you. I certainly cannot be held responsible for what has happened in the last ten years. One of your governments was a one-year-old, so you were in on something. As far as we are concerned, I said that we are devoting significantly more than was intended for 2017 and 2016. The Ministry of Health has €23 million, €676,000,900 for project activities in the area of long-term care. This is mainly about services in the field of unmet needs. As we do not provide these services at home today, there is greater pressure for admission to institutions. Services shall be free of charge during the duration of projects for beneficiaries. As the first pilot project, the long-term care model project in the community was launched in 2017, which provides €4.4 million and aims to develop standardised training for providers of formal and informal care. The project will be implemented by the end of 2022. After that, pilot projects will be implemented to support the transition to the implementation of the long-term care system law. The invitation to tender was published in April 2018 and the provision of services will continue until the end of June 2020. The total value of the project is EUR 6.1 million, implemented in three environments, in Dravograd, Krske and Celje. In particular, it should be stressed that new services are also provided under this project, which citizens cannot access under existing home arrangements. If I only list some: drug delivery, probe feeding, psychosocial support services for users and owners, services for strengthening and maintaining independence, and e-services. As part of the project, thousands of applications for long-term care were submitted to the single entry points from January to September 2019, a thousand 312 persons were assessed as eligible for new services under the projects and on 1 January 2019. 9. 2019 received 287 people free of charge for new services. Then there is the project of adaptation and transformation of existing institutional protection networks. The call for a project for which €13.2 million is earmarked was launched in June 2019 and the funds have not yet been drawn up. Work on this and direct activities for eligible persons will begin in the field [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Members, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u30	Thank you very much again, for your word. I am not satisfied with the response of the President of the Government, so I propose that we hold an extended debate on this subject at the next meeting. However, this is a very important finding by the Court of Auditors on the non-economic spending of public money and also a multi-annual debate at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly did not give concrete answers which the Court of Auditors, as part of its audit, did. The President of the Government here has also explained certain specific projects, but we have not received concrete answers to what exactly will be spent and projects do not provide concrete answers as to how the problems currently existing in the area of long-term care will be addressed. Once again, we have more than 11,000 current requests and more than 24,000 who are on the list or potential users of long-term care services. On the other hand, the Ministry is committed to preparing studies, analyses to test a new long-term care system, based on a law that is not yet ready. The entire coalition, as we have seen at the meeting of the National Assembly, is moving forward with these findings of the Court of Auditors. Given that such a situation and the anticipated non-economic use of public money is essentially to blame as part of your coalition, the well-respected Prime Minister of the Government, I am not surprised by your answer today. But the fact is that we must be aware that this is public money, that we must spend it economically, prudently and transparently. In the present case, however, the Court of Auditors finds that this is not the case in its audit. It is, therefore, once again, for the findings of the Court of Auditors and for very important issues in this area. Most importantly, citizens know what public money is spent on, so I suggest that we hold a broader debate on this issue at one of the next meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We are voting on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. This brings us to the next question you ask Mr Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. As announced by the honourable President of the Government, I will ask you a question about tax reform and the budget. As you know, the budget of the government's programme is wired into numbers. This budget that we now adopt, the budget for 2020 and 2021, is undoubtedly the most important document that this government will adopt. This document will determine what it will do and what this government will not do in the main of its mandate for the next two years. As you know, we have another year before the elections after the end of this budget. So what you're gonna do, you're gonna do now. Last year, when we wrote the coalition agreement, there were a lot of good social and developmental tracts in it to change the course for the development of Slovenia over the next decade, which are not in the budget and not even in the tax reform. And if I go in line, what's missing? First of all, there is a shortage of supplementary health insurance. This is the promise of your government, the promise of the former government. We have drawn up a law in Levica, but it is not in the budget, not in the tax reform. Next up, apartments. The promise of the last few governments. The Coalition Treaty states: 0.4% of GDP is to be earmarked for this purpose and 10 000 public rental apartments are to be built. What's in the budget? 3 million housing funds. Three million. Science and research. The Coalition Treaty provides 1 % for science and research until 2021 from public funds. What's in the budget? For 80%, miss that goal. Retired. The Coalition Treaty promises a greater contribution to employers so that almost 100,000 pensioners living below the poverty threshold will be drawn out and allocated at least €613 of the minimum pension. This is not in the budget, nor is it in the tax reform. Climate policy. Slovenia is committed to reducing its carbon footprint by 40% by 2030. We don't see any vision in the budget or in the tax reform that would lead us there. What is in the budget and tax reform? We have a relief that I have already warned you in March that it is developmental and socially harmful. 137 million Euros of holes will be accepted this week, which will pay 5% of the best paid in the country. Members will receive one minimum salary per year more, the ministerial assembly will receive about 800 to 900 euros per year more, the managers of thousands of euros per year more. That's why I'm asking you, Prime Minister: With all the flaws that this budget has, why is this tax relief the best-paid gift in the country your priority?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u34	Thank you for asking. After many months of intensive coordination, the tax change package is finally also in the National Assembly. Finally, in the sense that the year expires and we catch the deadlines for entry into force as from 1 January next year. I have said my position several times, including when I was presenting budgets for the next two years. The tax situation is similar to that of the budget. They represent the most important resource that fills the state treasury and enables the current payment of social transfers, but at the same time they are the biggest stumbling block. We are all still together far from realizing that taxes are the ones that provide public services. It has never been and will not come up with a proposal that will be adopted unanimously or after all. The proposals respond to the current fiscal situation. No more and no less. All measures must also be considered in the long run. Competitiveness, inclusive growth and social stability remain challenges while reducing public debt and preserving the surpluses of the state sector. Therefore, some of the changes originally planned have been slightly softened, but for a reason. However, we have not completely ruled out the possibility that you would not happen in the future when the time is right. With the spring forecast of macroeconomic indicators, we will continue to negotiate with the Economic and Social Council and reopen the topics, of course with appropriate economic growth. The analysis shows that the biggest impact on growth is on changes in labour taxation and consumption. After all, for many years the demands of the economy to reduce the tax burden on work have also been in order. It should be pointed out that Slovenia, according to the European Commission's data after the tax burden and contributions, is below the average of the European Union, but data on the economic structure of taxes for Slovenia show that this is not the most favourable due to the over-average burden of labour and the under-average burden of capital. It will also be necessary to reconsider the arguments for raising the corporate income tax or, in other words, the profit tax, which is also the subject matter of your customer. This also gives rise to your disagreement with the proposed tax legislation, which you are making new as one of the conditions for further cooperation with the coalition. If I focus for a moment on this cooperation, let me also remind you of the joint project related to the planning of tax changes. I quote: "With the amendment of the Law on the Tax on the Income of Legal Persons, we will, in accordance with the Coalition Agreement, set the lower limit of the tax to be paid by legal persons at 5%." In this part we went, I'll say, more in your direction, because with the change the minimum tax on profit will be 7%. Let me remind you that the economy needs some time to adjust to change. We also make sure that the business environment is predictable and attractive for foreign companies as well. In addition, we have also charged capital in the light of the rise in the cedular taxation of capital revenues from 25 to 27.5%. Joint capital measures will bring about €64 million to the state treasury. I understand that we would like to tax ourselves even more, in the notes, rich, but I repeat that there is a need to act in accordance with the financial situation cautiously and gradually. Of all four marriage proposals, the Income Act is the basis of the overall tax optimisation. It is a key part of how we relieve the middle layer of the population. A highly educated developmental staff is not necessarily among the recipients of a multiple of average wages, and therefore the maximum load in the second and third classes of the income scale is. In the second and third income classes there are staff that contribute most to the creation and growth of added value, which is, in addition to productivity, a key element of the competitiveness of each economy and a basis for the standard of living. This income change is therefore not intended to increase the balance sheet and to follow the theory that everything is the same, but rather to improve at least a little the remuneration of those who, with their knowledge, can keep the Republic of Slovenia in contact with developing societies. If I continue, we will maintain the highest tax rate [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u35	Mr Members, let the President of the Government finish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I'm not happy with your answer. First, with the second and third classes of five, you suggest that you unload the middle class. I would only warn you that this is a mirage or a mirage. We don't have five classes and in every 20% of people, but in the last class there are less than 1% of people, and in the first class there are practically 60%. Two thirds of the people in this country work for less than the average wage. And this tax reform gives – to whom? A worker on a minimum wage of €1.6 per year is said to have one coffee, an average wage worker who has already paid 12 euro per year in the last third, and then gets a double average salary, plus 5% of the average wage – 95% less – but this 5% gets serious loads: €55,60,70,80,90 per month and more. So you're unloading 5%, and you call this middle class. And this reform, if we only look at the income part, will cut into the budget by 137 million, while on the other hand there is a shortage of resources. If we talk about engineers and developers, with such a science and research budget, these people will be nothing better or will continue to explore for a thousand, 200, 000, 300 euros and so on. They're not gonna be on a better pension. We have money in our budget for maybe one home for the elderly and nothing more. It's not going to be on a better economy. There'll be no less blackmail. Do you think that any engineer who gets a raise of 10 euros or 12 or 15 will not be evicted from the country because of this tax reform? There's no factor in that. The only thing he has is the payload of 5% of the most paid and the comfort of employers who will thus save in their pockets and take it from the state. But [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u37	Mr. Ambassador, you've taken your time. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u38	If I keep going where I ended up before. We've already unloaded the regression, so we've taken one step in this direction to get everyone as much as they've been paid. What you're saying about one coffee is that it's hard to comment, it's a slightly simplified matter. As far as this package is concerned, it is also necessary to accept it because if we have raised the minimum wage, those who have received a higher minimum wage may also find themselves in a higher class, and this is a problem. This legislation has also been harmonised in the Economic and Social Council. That's what you have to say here, too. Of course, there is always an opportunity when this is accepted in Parliament, there is always an opportunity to table an amendment. This is another fact, and this possibility exists. The government has drawn up such legislation and the National Assembly can adopt something else. Like I said, we're a minority government. There has been a long coordination that we have come to this proposal. He seems optimal. But if you vote differently, then you'll vote differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Member, you have a chance to make a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you. I propose a procedural request for a general debate for the following reasons. First, Mr Prime Minister, legislation has not been harmonised on the Economic and Social Council. She wasn't. The unions clearly opposed it and also publicly opposed it when the minister presented it to the public. They are opposed to such income scales as you propose, and I think there are 95% of citizens and citizens who are bypassed by such tax reform and give to those who have more than twice the average wage. Another time. When you say this package is necessary, it's also due to minimum wage. You don't have to take the whole package. We can simply cross out the harmful income scale and leave everything else behind. We have also tabled such an amendment in Levica. It would be very good if the Government supported it, because then the coalition would probably vote differently than it voted on the committee, at the meeting we have this week. And the third time. In view of what I said at the outset, what was written and promised in the Coalition Treaty, what vision for the new decade we are or what you presented in that document and what this budget offers, I think it is necessary to discuss where we want to go in the next decade, or whether we have to go without time. On the other hand, I think we need to keep talking about who really is the middle layer in this country. The middle layer in this country, although it may seem so to someone, is not people with 2,000 euros of wages or more. This layer is also statistically no longer in the middle layer if you summarize OECD statistics, you will be told that the middle layer is between 80% and 200% of the average wage, while the government, despite constant warning, has been coming with reform since March, which is also missing the statistical medium layer and is focusing on the most paid. If there are the biggest loads in the second and third income classes, you need to know that they know you most about the salaries that are above it. You can also look at the studies that have been published in recent months and weeks. My initiative to debate in the National Assembly is to discuss priorities in the budget and what this tax reform should be.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr Member, for your procedural proposal, which we will vote on tomorrow in the framework of the vote. I give my word to Mrs. Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! At the request of the Council of State, the Constitutional Court assessed the constitutional consistency of electoral legislation in the Republic of Slovenia. In the decision, the Constitutional Judges stated that the areas of the electoral districts after 26 years of the adoption of electoral legislation no longer meet the criteria provided for in the Elections Act for the establishment of electoral units and electoral districts. Above all, it is a criterion that speaks of the approximately equal number of voters in each constituency. As a result, the legal provisions governing the areas of electoral thefts are in breach of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, in violation of the rule of law referred to in Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The substance of the judgment in question is, therefore, the finding that the difference in the number of voters between the constituencies is so large that the equality of electoral rights is not guaranteed. The Member is a representative of all citizens, not only of the place in which he was elected, so the voter's voice must also have about the same weight, regardless of the area in which the electorate elects. The Slovenian Constitution also provides that the electorate must have a decisive impact on the allocation of the mandate. The latter can be achieved by the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a relative priority vote, which we are also committed to in the LMŠ Group. It should be borne in mind that in the event of changes in the electoral borders, such a solution represents only a solution for a certain period of time and we will also face such problems over the years when demographic and migration changes once again lead to the inequality of relations between the individual constituencies. Since the legislator must remove this constitutional non-compliance within a period of two years, of course we must strive to create a broader political consensus, because it is only in this way that we can take a decision that will lead to changes in the electoral legislation towards the Constitutional Court's demands. In view of the above, I ask you, Mr President of the Government: How does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to encourage the adoption of legislation to eliminate the unconstitutionality found in the decision of the Constitutional Court? If I specify and highlight two solutions that are currently most realistic, this is the abolition of the thefts and the introduction of a preferential vote or, on the other hand, the amendment of the electoral borders: Which of the two solutions and in what form would the Government of the Republic of Slovenia support? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u44	Thank you for asking. The fact is, under the current legislation, the electorate has absolutely no influence on who of the candidates of the party he elects will come to Parliament, because only the name offered by the party can be chosen on the ballot. The fact is, the voter surrounds the candidate, but his vote goes to the party first. Last December, the Constitutional Court found that the electoral districts after 26 years of the adoption of electoral legislation no longer comply with any of the criteria set out in Article 20 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, such as: the same number of inhabitants, geographical roundness and the highest possible integrity of the municipality. The constitutionality established must be abolished by the National Assembly within two years, which is until December 2020. In short, we have a good year at our disposal, which is only seemingly large. For 20 years, he managed to maintain the status quo. In other words, it has been possible to preserve such areas where some are more easily chosen. Although some attempts have been made to reform the electoral law, all have failed, even before the proposals even reached the National Assembly. This was the case eight years ago, but only 21 Members and Members from the Zares, LDS and SNS voted in favour of the adoption of an absolute preferential vote by the abolition of the thefts. I hope something like this doesn't happen this time. I do not want all the coordination and dedication to be mere purpose, and I do not want nothing to be debated but nothing to happen. I must therefore commend the efforts made by the Ministry of Public Administration in the drafting of the legislation. Last Thursday, the government also took note of the material and draft proposals. These are draft amendments to two electoral laws, and they both constitute the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision on electoral thefts. The first is the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, which provides for the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a relative optional priority vote at the level of electoral units, following the model of the system for the election of members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament. The decision of the Constitutional Court would therefore be implemented in such a way as to eliminate or maintain the electoral borders in an administrative sense only. With the introduction of a relatively optional priority vote, which ensures a strong vote from the voter point of view, the voter would give one of the eleven candidates on the list a preferred vote if he did not wish to do so, but could surround only the list. The threshold for the election of candidates is relatively low, followed by a formula for the election of a Member to the European Parliament and 11 candidates amount to one twenty-two and 4.5% respectively. This would ensure the decisive impact of voters on the choice of candidates. The second set of amendments concerns the Law on the Establishment of Election Units for the Election of Members to the National Assembly. In this case, the electoral system would remain the same, only areas of electoral theft would change, with differences in size not exceeding plus negative 15%. Changes with greater derogations would be too risky for a solution not to follow a decision of the Constitutional Court, which, I recall, would point out just too many derogations in the number of voters. If we had followed more geographically the circularity of the electoral districts, the derogations could have been even more than 40% in one direction or another, which would have been an extremely large deviation from the basic direction of the Constitutional Court decision. If such solutions were offered to the parties, this would be totally irresponsible. Which of the two solutions do I support myself? I certainly want to play a decisive role for the electorate, so I support the change in the electoral system itself, which, as it is said, foresees the abolition of the thefts and the introduction of a relative priority vote that would not be required. I could give it to you, or I could only choose a client. That would be the voter's decision, and we'd at least give him a choice. The people are close to the vote, at least after this year's elections to the European Parliament, where more than three quarters of the voters have voted as their preferred vote. So they're not to be underestimated. Let me put it this way. Indeed, the new districts need only a simple majority of the votes sent, but this is only a seemingly easier solution because the position in this house is likely to be more difficult to unify. The introduction of a priority vote needs 60 votes, but I believe we are not afraid of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. No further questions. With this, I thank you for the answers to all 5 questions sent. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving on to the questions raised at the 9th, 10th and 11th meetings of the National Assembly. Dr. Andrej Bertonzel, Minister of Finance, will answer four questions. The first question, Mr Minister, you have, is from Mr Mark Bandell in relation to the appropriateness of the level of retirement of former SDH administration presidents. Mr. Secretary, your word. Here you go. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Minister Andrej Bertonzel, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u46	It is a question of honourable Member Bandell. With regard to those issues, I would only like to point out that, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, only a question may be raised by an individual minister or minister from the field of operation of the Government or of a particular ministry or government service. No matter what, let me explain our position. This issue does not fall within the scope of the Ministry of Finance, since the Slovenian State Holding Act in Article 7 explicitly emphasises that SDH and its authorities are not bound by the instructions of state authorities or third parties and that they must act independently and independently in carrying out their tasks in accordance with the Slovenian State Holding Act. Thus, under Article 46, paragraph 7, of the Slovenian State Holding Act, one of the tasks of the SDH Supervisory Board, in fulfilling which the law gives it full, I stress, complete autonomy and independence, including the determination of the remuneration of the President and the members of the SDH administration. Similarly, in determining the remuneration for the work of SDH employees, the independent and fully responsible management of the Slovenian State Holding is independent, independent and fully responsible. The Minister of Finance does not have the power to assess the eligibility of benefits, as it is solely the responsibility of the Supervisory Board and the administration of the SHD for these matters. However, we are aware of and appeal to the fact that the remuneration is legally and professionally justified. This should take into account the expected responsibility of individuals, as well as the burden and burden of liability arising from the legal or statutory arrangements of the Slovenian State holding company. However, the SHD has already made public the details of Mrs Glavin's work and remunerations under this heading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have the right to request a supplement to the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you. Minister, I was expecting that answer because you had nothing to do with it. I apologize for that, but you inherited this problem. But see if I can freshen things up a little bit. Mrs Lidija Glavina, who has come to this position without knowledge and without any experience, because this has also been established, has received EUR 132 000 of relief. Here we are talking about 144 average wages or 20 years of average pension. Or after so much criticism of the law on Members, it would also be the difference that could pay me travel costs for 60 years, for 60 years. I wonder here – I know that the main word is the SDH supervisory council, but SDH is directly under the influence of the Ministry of Finance and I hope that the next step that will be here will not happen again. Because it's literally a disgrace so high a retirement that doesn't belong in our culture, if you say so. I'm wondering if you're going to influence the next steps that are going to arise, another Lydia Glavina will be happening again in the second phase. And you'll say again that it's the control council that's responsible for us not being able to do anything. Not true, the government can make, the Ministry of Finance can make and prevent such enormous and shameful amounts for retirements that are not like any other thing. If I just say it quickly, why not? Any other secretary in the municipality may have a higher salary than the mayor, who is responsible for everything. And it's not appropriate here either. Let people imagine for themselves now whether that's right or wrong. I understand, and I believe that you, Minister, will make a little order here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u50	Although I have already expressed my personal position publicly in the public media, I have called this an unnecessary anomaly, which needs to be eliminated and, even better, prevented in the future. Well, it's already settled in the meantime. Mrs Glavina is also no longer employed in the Slovenian State Holding. But it's certainly a resounding matter, I agree. Thank you again for the question that we can further explain the role of the Ministry of Finance, which is replaced in this part. In any event, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for SDH and DUTB in this respect, but in the sense of the Slovenian State Holding, it is perfectly clear who regulates the operation and management of this company as well as the management of this company. It is such an important society, which also has its own law – the Slovenian State Holding Act, which was actually written in order to prevent the government from being involved or, if we say so, the countries in operation of an independent institution that manages a high value of state property. Almost €13 billion is this. So in this part I also made it clear that the matter is within the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding Board, as regards the appointment or withdrawal of members of the administration – and so is – and under the powers of the Supervisory Board as well as the administration on the remuneration arrangement, particularly in the supervisory board in this part. In this part, from my position and from this day forward, I can only appeal, not only to the Slovenian State holding company, but also to any other institution, to be proportionate to the situation in our country in determining the remuneration, either the meeting or wages in this part. In this part, I expect the responsible conduct of both the supervisory boards and, on the other hand, the administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is the question of Soniboj Knezak and it is related to the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision on the participation of workers in the management of banks. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dear Member, first of all, I would like to respond to some of your statements from the question of the Member, which, in our view, do not fully hold. You state that the Constitutional Court has ruled that restricting the rights of bank officials to participate in the management of banks in non-conformity with the Constitution. In past decisions, the Constitutional Court has already stated that the legislator has a broad field of discretion in the choice of how workers are involved in the management of the field and that a legal regime which does not provide for the participation of workers in management bodies is consistent with Article 75 of the Constitution. Participation in business management bodies is only one way of involving workers in management, which can be limited if there are legitimate reasons for doing so. In the present case, in this particular case, the Constitutional Court adopted such a decision because the legislator did not sufficiently justify the grounds for excluding the right of workers to participate in bank management bodies. You further point out that the regulation that restricts workers in the banking sector to participate in bank management bodies was adopted only when banking legislation was amended during the banking recovery period, which is not the case. The limitation of this right has been applicable to membership in the supervisory board of the bank since 1999 and to membership in the bank administration from 2006 onwards, both until June this year when the Constitutional Court repealed such arrangements. No Government and the Ministry of Finance have never claimed that the restriction on the right of workers to participate in bank management bodies requires European banking rules. However, the fact is that the provision of banking services is subject to very strict rules regarding the management of credit and other risks to which the bank is exposed in its operations. It is therefore very important that members of bank management bodies are experienced bank experts who possess the appropriate knowledge and skills to deepen the understanding of the activities of banks. This is why the Banking Act also lays down specific conditions for persons who may become members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards of banks and the additional criteria are laid down by the Bank of Slovenia. You also point out that the restriction on the participation of workers in insurance management bodies is also contained in the Insurance Act, which is also not the case, because workers' representatives can be appointed to insurance management bodies. You ask me how we will ensure that bank employees can elect their representatives to the administrations and supervisory councils of banks as soon as possible. The Constitutional Court's decision should be respected and the Constitutional Court did not order the legislator to comply with the Constitution, so further activities of the Ministry of Finance as the competent Ministry of the Financial System are not required. The composition of the bank’s management bodies shall be within the competence of the Assembly or the supervisory board of the bank in accordance with its statute, and the bank’s management shall ensure that the provisions of the law governing the participation of workers in the management of companies shall be duly respected. Nevertheless, I can point out that the Ministry of Finance, together with Banka Slovenije, will examine the effects of the current regime on the internal management of banks according to their specific nature and consequently very detailed regulation of the banking area. With regard to your last question concerning the prohibition of the participation of employees in management in the case of subsidiaries, business groups and holding companies, I can say that the law governing the participation of workers in the management of companies is within the competence of another ministry – in this part the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is competent and that the Ministry of Finance is not aware of the fact that the current regulation in this area could be of any concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. Although I did not expect you to go on your own now on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision to amend the legislation, I am aware that this is in the first place the right which has now been acquired by this Constitutional Court decision by bank employees and that they will have to meet this requirement themselves. What I wanted to remind you of is that it is impossible for employees in subsidiaries and business groups, but I will briefly explain to you in a personal case. I was, together with a fellow member of the Millennium Group, a representative of workers on the Supervisory Committee, where my colleague and I rejected the proposal after the meeting, at which we would adopt a decision and allocate 30 emoluments to the Director in the event of his dismissal. There was a reaction, namely that we went into reorganisation, and we set up a business group of 14 people, of which 7 were managers, and 7 were members of the financial and accounting sector. They appointed a working representative and replaced both members. In particular, Mr Jože Stanič, the then Director-General of Gorenje, replaced me in a mockery of the Law on the Co-ordination of Workers in Company Management. The employee representative of the company he never went to was a personal friend of the director. Another colleague is a bank representative or a friend of the director. I just wanted to point out that the fourteen people were allowed to have their own representatives, while at the same time a thousand people who were organised in the world of workers of capital-related societies had no representative. And that seems to me to be partly happening today. However, I am aware that this is, as you yourself have mentioned, within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Minister, would you like to answer? [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Secretary will not respond to the warning. Thank you. Now I ask you to answer Mr Franz Jurša's question regarding the closure of financial offices throughout Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u56	Dear Member, the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia has temporarily closed the financial offices in Ljutomer, Lendava and Gornji Radgoni on 1 August 2019. The temporary closure of financial offices in those locations does not mean a permanent cessation of the operations of financial offices. The Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia shall monitor and monitor the operations of financial offices and shall adapt it to the needs of taxpayers for tax services. This means that the business dynamics of financial offices or the presence time and the number of employees in financial offices are regulated according to the number of visits made by the debtors and the type of services that the debtors wish to perform at a specific location. In financial offices, information shall be provided to natural persons regarding the fulfilment of their tax obligations, the acceptance of different applications and the issuance of certificates, and, with a view to ensuring higher quality of services, equal treatment of the debtors, easier supervision and efficient exploitation of employees in financial offices. Natural persons shall be referred to the tax authority in respect of the fulfilment of tax obligations on income and compensation for the use of building land for which a dose is made during the first half of the calendar year. Liabilities shall only apply to offices or offices if they wish to submit complaints, objections or other forecasts, which are all related to the first half of the calendar year. Therefore, in the Financial Office of Murska Sobota, as well as in other offices during the summer months, the need of natural persons after the use of the services of financial offices is reduced and, taking into account the information on reduced visits, temporary restrictions on the operation of these offices. Since taxpayers serve the services of financial offices to a lesser extent, the Financial Administration has taken other measures, including the introduction of a number of electronic and other services that enable taxpayers to cooperate more easily and more quickly with the tax authority. The financial management must ensure the collection of taxes, prevent the risks of non-compliance with the tax obligations met, and therefore the modality of operations must be adjusted to effectively manage the tasks with the available number of employees. Taxpayers, however, are allowed to meet their tax obligations in the correct and timely manner despite the temporary closure of these financial offices. In this way, access to services provided by financial offices is ensured by means of the possibility of depositing deposits in drawers at the locations of financial offices, by mail or via the e-tax portal, and general information may be accepted by telephone or by office. It is also important to mention the reorganisation of the information area, which provides quick and relevant information to natural persons through the introduction of a single call centre. According to the perceptions of the financial administration, this option is used to a greater extent by non-skillers. If it is found that the need of the debtors to use the services provided by the financial offices, i.e. in physical form, is demonstrated, the financial management will also ensure the opening of the financial offices at the above-mentioned locations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u58	Thank you very much, President. Dear Minister, we're here at different wavelengths. All those who have a slightly longer memory are called back, we know how the tax industry was organized and how it is now. Dr. Cuffer, your former predecessor, then made a promise that everywhere where the tax offices are, there will also be tax offices. This is not how we stick to this agreement. If I just tell you that between September 2018 and April 2019 30 000 286 employees were employed in the public administration and 175 thousand 222 employees in the public sector, there are 375 more employees in the public administration during this period and 2 000 632 more people in the public sector. The financial administration has employees in Slovenia at this time, there may be a difference today, 3 000 574 people and 4 less than 1. 8. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Maybe it's those three or four who got locked up by their tax office. I'm sure they didn't, because all three of them have moved to the Murska Sobota Tax Office. At the Tax Office of Murska Sobota, Mr. Minister, 250 people are employed. Thus, we do not find three public servants to cover the area of the administrative unit Lendava, Ljutomer and Gornja Radgon. Since my time is up, I'm gonna have to stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thanks for stopping. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u60	I'll take the floor. Yeah, look, I agree, because my position on this part is clear. Indeed, activities are managed by the Financial Office of the Republic of Slovenia, Furs, and tax offices and tax offices should be brought closer to people and allowed to have not only Internet access or mail but also the possibility of direct conversation or identification on specific issues with the tax officer. We have already ordered Furs to study centralisation or decentralisation in this respect. In this sense, it has now gone in the direction of prior centralisation and certain steps, the first steps in this respect have already been taken. One or two tax offices have already been reopened, although it is a matter of time. One in the cel region. My recommendation is to look also at other locations where this need has been demonstrated, where the interest of customers, taxpayers for this direct contact with tax officials, is to be addressed. So in this part, this process of gradual decentralisation and the approach to these offices, as defined in the previous case, only on Wednesday, one day a week, when it comes to such issues as to how these matters should be settled in locations where the need arises. Of course, on the other hand, I am also aware of the pressure on individual services after the rationalisation of business. However, we all express this pressure directly, including at the last reading by the Committee on Finance, on administrative work, the proposals to take exactly the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and then to look for such reserves in the system. But once again, to be clear, I support decentralisation in locations where this is necessary and above all greater distances.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The Member of Parliament shall have the right to a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Given that these offices are best served by older people because of the lack of e-mailing, the true generation, which our parliamentary group itself represents, is logical to expect from the public sector, from you, Mr Minister, that this matter is governed as we have proposed. We expect you to be 1. 12. 2019 opened office in Ljutomer, Lendava and Gornji Radgoni. If that's not the case, I'll be the one who's constantly harassing and you won't have any peace with this question before me. But I'm not gonna ask you a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u63	You have abused, honourable Member, the Rules of Procedure. That's not appropriate. Mr Minister, you will get another question from Mrs Lidija Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u64	Your Honor, thank you for your question. With regard to your first question, I would like to point out in the introduction that housing policy is essentially the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Space within its housing policy. One key document to address the housing problem is the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025, adopted by the National Assembly in December 2015. This document pays particular attention to young, older and more vulnerable groups of people. It is worth noting that that resolution comes exactly from the constitutional provision you are referring to. The main contractor of public housing policy is the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. This resolution also includes an action plan setting out the key implementing agents and projects set out in the Housing Programme. The Action Programme also envisages the participation of the Ministry of Finance in some activities, both in the context of the activation of the existing Housing Fund and in the case of increased accessibility of dwellings, the construction of new dwellings and the renovation of the Housing Fund. This year, the Ministry of Finance, together with the Housing Fund, has already joined the implementation of measures relating to the activation of real estate under the DUTB Bad Claims Scheme. With regard to your second question, I would point out that the Ministry of Finance does not have the power to interfere with the banking policy and that the decision of the bank to grant any loans must be based on appropriate and clearly defined criteria. Before granting each loan, the Bank must assess the debtor’s ability to fulfil its obligations and the quality of the collateral. The Ministry of Finance also does not have jurisdiction over the supervisory measures in the Bank of Slovenia domain. It thus identifies the risks associated with consumer credit to the population and also approaches instruments for banks, such as micro-prudential recommendations for housing lending. The requirements in the area of crediting the population have recently been exacerbated by the Bank of Slovenia, as we are all aware. The housing policies and the Resolution on the National Housing Programme stress measures to strengthen the public housing fund, so that socially weaker, vulnerable and young families are given the opportunity to rent apartments. With regard to your third question, it should be reiterated that the Ministry of Finance is not competent to carry out analyses on the offer of housing loans in the Slovenian space. The latter can certainly be obtained from different organisations on the market, for example by the Slovenian Consumer Union. Regardless of the above, I believe that, in the first place, good competition is important in the Slovenian banking area, which allows the commentants to choose among the various providers of housing loans and, consequently, choose the most optimal offer for themselves.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. Madam Members, you have the opportunity to request a reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Minister, here you have answered me that you are not competent for anything. In a way, as far as credit is concerned, we don't really spare young families. And I want to know: Do you think that a country would set up a housing bank that would only lend housing loans to everyone under the same conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u68	Thank you. In my reply, I merely warned that other ministries were responsible for the individual matters you mentioned. Of course, the work is shared by various ministries. I agree that everything begins and ends with money, but with competences, with activities in this area, but with the resources defined in the individual financial plans of individual ministries, it is in the domain of each ministry or office. I think that the best answer to this question that you have asked is a well-functioning and transparent banking sector, at least now that it is privatised, so I hope that the number of quality banking services will also increase, which was also intended, and that the role played by these banking institutions will then also be reflected in better services for their committees.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do we have a motion that's procedural? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Because I personally think housing policy is a very important topic, because it is mainly about young families who are having trouble getting their homes, I propose that a broader discussion be held at the next meeting on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you, Madam Ambassador. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow in the course of the vote. Thank you, Minister, for all five of your answers. This brings us to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Dr. Aleksandra Pivec will answer Mrs. Mojce Žnidarič's question related to the intervention law to help farmers in the wake of natural disasters in 2019. Here you go, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u72	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to answer the question raised by the Member State concerning this year's weather conditions, which occurred mainly in the Podravja area, and otherwise wider in Slovenia. As far as the consequences of natural disasters are concerned, it is certainly a systemic basis or a system law governing this, the Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Disasters. In the event of natural disasters, intervention measures shall therefore be implemented on the basis of rules governing the protection against natural disasters. The Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue collects data from ministries first, and is also collected by the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue and Data from municipalities, as well as information on all activities carried out, on the basis of which the amount of intervention costs incurred in dealing with such weather events is estimated. The adoption of the intervention law would therefore constitute a derogation from the system-wide regime to address the consequences of natural disasters. The Law on the Elimination of the Consequences of Natural Accidents in Article 4(3) provides that it is not possible to obtain or allocate funds to remedy the consequences of adverse weather conditions in agricultural production, provided that the removal of these consequences makes it possible to obtain State aid in the form of co-financing of insurance premiums. The damage caused by the current storm is, of course, a natural disaster for which it was possible and is still possible to obtain funds in the form of co-financing of the insurance premium from 2006 onwards, and hence from this year no longer an assessment of the damage by stream is made. The Council of the Regional Unit of the Ptuj Agricultural and Agriculture Institute proposes to activate the de minimis measure for the most affected farmers affected by the storm this year. That is why the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is already 30. On 7 this year, it presented an initiative to assess damage to agricultural crops to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, which is also responsible for assessing these damage. The government is like this on the 12th. 9. adopted a decision informing it of the information on the preparation of a preliminary assessment of damage to agricultural crops due to the effects of the point storms that occurred between 11 June and 31 July in all affected regions of Slovenia. It also ordered the Authority of the Republic of Slovenia to implement the decision in cooperation with the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia, the Environmental Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovenian Insurance and Rural Development Associations and the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development and to be granted a 60-day period within which it must assess and present the damage. On the basis of the injury assessment, the affected farms will be able to implement the following measures: the application of the reduction or write-off of contributions to pension and disability insurance, the reduction of rents under the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and the adjustment of current agricultural policy measures, notably the enforcement of a higher power, and this is the basis for the creation of specific assistance to farmers in difficulty. These are the measures that can be implemented. As it is said, the intervention law would be unlawful in this case because there are other de minimis aids for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you, Madam Secretary of Defense. This brings us to five other questions for Minister Aleš Šabedr. The first question is the question of Mr Jana Mahnič and is related to the implementation of Article 12 of the Law on the Limitation of the Consumption of Alcohol. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, distinguished Mr. Mahnic! The prohibition on the sale or supply of alcoholic beverages in facilities and in the relevant functional areas where education and education are carried out has been in force since 2003. At the same time, the prohibition is not limited to the regular working time of the school or to the teaching time, but such facilities and functional land are subject to continuous application. Accordingly, the Ministry of Health has already prepared a number of interpretations of the prohibition. In 2003, the adoption of the Law on the Limitation of the Consumption of Alcohol, on the basis of which the prohibition was mentioned, followed Article 152 of the Treaty of Amsterdam. This Member State undertakes to take account of the public health interest in all its policies and programmes. The law followed the principles and spirit of the European Alcohol Charter, the recommendations of the European Council and the Declaration on Youth and Alcohol. In June, the Ministry of Health and the Health Inspectorate of the educational and educational institutions called for consistent compliance with the prohibition on the pouring of alcoholic beverages and the use of tobacco products in facilities and on functional land. Restricting access to alcohol, including the prohibition of the sale and supply of alcohol where education and education are carried out, is one of the three most effective measures to reduce alcohol damage, according to the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. The other two cost-effective measures are the rise in the price of alcoholic products and the ban on advertising. According to the National Institute for Public Health, 43% of people in Slovenia drink high risk. The registered consumption of alcohol in Slovenia in 2017 amounted to more than 10 litres of pure alcohol per adult population, which is from a public health point of view compared to most other European countries. The health costs associated with alcohol consumption were estimated at €147 million per year in Slovenia in 2012-2016. Taking into account the grave assessment of some other costs, such as accidents and domestic violence, crime, theft and vandalism, this figure increases to an average of €228 million per year. Inflows to the state budget for excise duties in recent years amount to only around € 103 million per year. In view of the data and results of public research, which show that the public supports more stringent measures in this area, and the calls of professionals and civil society for a more determined approach to alcohol policy in our country, each step seems inappropriate. Legislation in this area and in other areas of public health is often subject to shared opinions based on different interests. As Minister of Health, of course, I advocate the interest of health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you, President. The Minister has now told me what a well-known fact is. The only intelligent and normal explanation would be that this article contains such an explanation, even if we do not change the record that it is forbidden to pour alcoholic products only at a time when the educational process is under way. Tell me, Mr Minister, whether it is normal for a municipality without the funding of ministries, the state to build a sports hall worth €4 million, and then to organise a concert outside the education and education process, organise various events, events, and do not pour alcoholic beverages. You say here that it is already critical how many Slovenians and Slovenians drink alcohol. Mr. Minister, he drinks at home and in the inn with the intention of getting drunk. I don't know who's gonna say it, but now I'm gonna go to a football game or a concert to get drunk. That's how it's gonna be if someone goes for that purpose. In the previous term, we had a debate on when colleague Möderndorfer suggested that alcohol be allowed to flow at sports events. There are conflicting laws on why alcohol can be poured in the Cologne, but alcohol cannot be poured in the school playground, and school did not contribute to it. Why not out-of-time education and education, weekends, afternoons, evenings, holidays and so on? I'm interested in your opinion on this. And answer my question, please: In the event that it goes so far and that your position is such that the law is read as strictly as it is written and that the inspection will continue to threaten and send around the letter, would you support the amendment of the law, which would clearly write that this applies only when the educational process is under way?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. In fact, I have to answer the last part of your question now, because you highlighted the amendment to the Alcohol Limitation Act prepared by a group of Members and Members in 2017, which speaks of the fact that the ban on the pouring of alcoholic beverages in facilities and on functional land, in institutions where educational and health activities are carried out, has not been included in the amendment and has remained unchanged. So, yes, the law is the moment you mentioned, but it allows you to pour alcoholic beverages at sports events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u80	I have asked a clear question as to how he sees it and if he would support the change. Not one or the other was answered by the minister. I'm sorry. What the law says, I know that, because I had to read it before I asked the question. It doesn't matter that then the minister talks here just to spend a few seconds. Mr Minister, give our municipality the budget of the Ministry of Health EUR 4 million as much as we have given for the gym, and then you decide what will be eaten there and what will be drank there. As long as the municipality builds a building with its own resources, until the society, the institution, which operates with the gym and the related facilities, because also on the playground, which is a few meters away and does not stick to the school, is not allowed there, because it is a suitable school facility, but the school has given nothing for this facility because the school also finances the municipalities. It is not normal for the organizer of an event there to pay for the organisation of an event that has to pay for the costs of renting a hall, cleaning and so on, in most cases it is included in the price already, cannot sell the drink that he wants to sell, not for the purpose of imaginative earnings, but for someone to get drunk there, but simply so that the society that goes down to organizing such an event can cover part of the costs. That's all this is about. Whoever's gonna get drunk, go to the inn or, I don't know, go to the store and buy it at home, don't go to sports events. This has been repeatedly debated, but you are still insisting on yours and sending these inspection services to begin monitoring this closely. I think that a debate should be held in the State Assembly on the Minister's response, which I also propose, but otherwise, given that I have already spoken with a number of Members from the coalition and sees the matter as I do that it really makes no sense to limit myself to these objects. Yes, on sports facilities, and on others, I am convinced that if we gave a constitutional assessment, the matter would fall, because you cannot leave somewhere else but, of course, write a dictatorship, not during the educational process, but when school facilities and related sports infrastructure facilities are leased for market activity, then I think that it should also be allowed to pour alcoholic products, and we can also give you that you do not drink.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will vote on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Mr. Joseph Lenart, Mr. Minister has asked you about the supervision of the work of doctors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, President. The implementation of the concession is supervised by the concession, which means at the primary level of the municipality and at the secondary level by the Ministry of Health. The control concessions relate mainly to the implementation of the concession contract by which the partner arranges for the implementation of the concession: the type of activity, the scope of the activity, the area and location, the responsible holder, the working time, the replacement and other components referred to in the Health Activity Act. The Ministry of Health has already been informed of the questionable behaviour of concessionaires in the field of specialist activity of the occult, namely, not to issue orders for glasses to patients, but to transmit them directly to the optics, which are often owned by them. In this way, the right of the patient to choose is clearly violated and the Ministry of Health will, in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Health Activities of the concession contract, coordinate with that amendment of the Health Act in order to interfere with the content of the contracts in the ocular activities by including a clause on the inadequacy of the concessionaire's connection with a particular optic. In particular, the concessionaire’s duty to hand over the contract for the manufacture of glasses to the insurer after the completion of the review and thereby ensure the operator’s free choice. The supervision of the implementation of health and material business regulations is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and is carried out in the form of administrative controls, where concessionaires are also involved. However, the Office for Health Insurance of Slovenia, which has already been involved in the issue of inappropriate cooperation between the occult and optics, has supervision of the implementation of public funds contracts, which has been initiated by the Commission to prevent corruption. The professional supervision of the work of the individual doctor shall be carried out by the Medical Chambers of Slovenia and the Minister of Health may determine the entire control system when it is suspected that irregularities have arisen in relation to the organisation, expertise of the working process or irregularities related to the quality and safety of health services. With regard to the link between eyepieces and optics, I would like to explain that optics is a service activity designed to produce appropriate glasses as a medical device. Cooperation between one activity and another cannot be prohibited but must be transparent and must ensure integrity on the one hand and on the other. In Slovenia, too, the optics also organises a health activity of the occult, an examination of vision with doctors of the occult, which can also mean better access to health services in remote areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Member, will you ask a further question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Thank you also for Mr Aleš Šabedr's reply. In prescribing and implementing visual aids and other devices you have somehow, I will say, satisfied my curiosity, although in the meantime, after asking this question, you have received some documents from the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance regarding the answer to the question about irregularities raised by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. But if we leave it now, I think that patients and citizens as such, those who need any help, must have the opportunity to choose this tool in terms of competition. If we go to buy one TV that costs 500 euros, we go to five stores, and we usually order and get here in the first optics. But if we're still focused, it's even worse. In awarding concessions for general ambulances, however, I have another question, because my question was also about general ambulances sometimes being in a standstill position. In my constituency it is happening, the mayors have complained that they cannot withdraw concessions where conditions have deteriorated so much that they are no longer satisfactory, and the service has also become very poor. What, then, can you do to make it easier to withdraw concessions in places where there are obvious violations that are already limited to false reasons and the laws and regulations are actually too loose?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, chairman. I don't know the specific cases you just talked about, so I should get to know them and see if any of these ambulances meet the conditions for withdrawing the concession in order to answer this question more easily. I would therefore ask if the Ministry could also obtain this information or the issue of these concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The Minister of Health, Aleš Šabeder, will answer the question of Ambassador Mag. Meire Hot, type 1 diabetes. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. Honourable Member, the rights of patients to medical devices are detailed in the rules of the OZZ or compulsory health insurance, and this is a sub-law issued by the Health Insurance Office, and the Ministry gives it its consent. The rules are often supplemented. When introducing changes, the Health Insurance Office is always in line with the expertise. The right to an insulin pump and consumption materials under compulsory health insurance in Slovenia is the right to diabetes for children and adults from 2002 onwards and 2005 onwards. The system for the continuous measurement of glucose in Slovenia is the right to compulsory health insurance from 2010. Under the current regime, the right to sensors is limited to 40 pieces per year. The rights to medical devices in diabetes have generally been extended in the last 15 years by almost every amendment to mandatory health insurance rules. The adoption process includes a proposal for amendments to the mandatory health insurance rules, including an amendment to Article 116 of the Rules, which will extend the right from 40 sensors per year to 55 sensors in the intercellular glucose system, which, according to the Institute of Health Insurance, will also take into account the initiative to extend the right to the number of sensors at the annual level provided by the clinical department for endocrinology, diabetes and metabolic diseases of the Internal Clinic and the Pediatric Clinic of UKC Ljubljana. Generally speaking, diabetes patients in Slovenia have a high standard of care. The fact is, as a result of the rapid development of health technologies, new, more technologically sophisticated blood sugar control devices are coming. Patients are also aware of this and the introduction of new more modern systems is also supported by the profession. As Minister of Health, I wish and endeavour to get patients to modern medical devices as soon as possible. I also believe that there are professional arguments for this, but any new right which is fully covered by compulsory health insurance must also be considered in terms of financial sustainability and cost-effectiveness. In the event that technological innovations are professionally justified and financially sustainable, we introduce them into the system following the procedures we have run out, both for diabetes and for many other diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have time to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Mr. Secretary, thank you for your answer. In my opinion, all patients suffering from Type 1 diabetes should have the right to free technologically advanced devices without any surcharge, not as high as they now have, directly discriminated against on the basis of property. It is essential to stress, however, that type 1 diabetes is a serious and increasingly widespread disease. However, the consequences of poorly controlled diabetes are exceptional. SBT1 is ultimately responsible for 40% of all cardiovascular disorders, end renal failure and dialysis, visual disturbances, blindness, amputations, vascular dementia and neuropathic disability. The cost of treatment of the consequences of SBT1 is already significantly higher than the cost of the most modern tools. In this case, it is not an additional financial burden for the insurance undertaking, but merely a diversion of the money from the curative to the prevention. So I'm glad you're getting very close to the profession in your position. As stated by the head of the Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Prof. Dr. Tadej Battelino, treatment methods are now available for the first time in decades, which can improve timely and effective disease treatment and effectively relieve the health insurance finances in the long term. Since I am running out of time, I would appeal to you once again to consider, in the context of the amendments to the Regulation, the possibility that there will be no more rejection of funding for devices by arguing that the patient has already taken a superstandard device and will pay the service all the time. All patients with type 1 diabetes should be provided with technologically advanced tools to control this difficult and potentially fatal disease.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much. In the case of a specific disease, we also have one concrete case where we do not actually cover the full costs and perhaps a slightly longer explanation. One of the manufacturers of these insulin pumps has actually combined the insulin pump and the system for continuous measurement of intercellular glucose in its device or pump. If insured persons opt for such a type of insulin pump, then they pay the difference between the price of the pump currently approximately EUR 2 000 500 and the price standard recognised by the Institute of Health Insurance, which amounts to EUR 841.86. The Health Insurance Office claims that it has not received a proposal from such a pump to show the benefit of such an insulin pump in particular with regard to the results of the treatment. For all medical devices which are the right to compulsory health insurance, there are more modern, better implementation of so-called superstandard medical devices which are not fully covered by the Department of Health Insurance. On the basis of the information available to the Health Insurance Office, it appears that diabetes patients who have already received access to state-of-the-art technologies are at least paid for so-called superstandard medical devices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Minister of Health Aleš Šabeder will answer the question of Ambassador Monika Gregorčič regarding the lack of family doctors. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Member, with regard to the measures we have already taken in 2019 to address the lack of family doctors or family medicine doctors, I would like to reiterate those key steps that we have already taken. If I start with Annex 1 to the 2019 General Agreement, where we set a new standard or burden of family doctors for a thousand 895 headcounts. Notwithstanding the possibility of rejecting the identification of insured persons, all the partners in the agreement or the signatories to the annex agreed that no insured person would be deprived of a selected personal physician. The existing teams with a high head office of over a thousand 895 headcounts based on this Annex 1 will not print out their designated insured persons, but will encourage the selection of another personal physician, i.e. in teams where this principal is lower. The identification of new insured persons shall first be required to implement all teams which do not reach the specified thousand 895 headcounts for 2019 and the minimum number of headquarters or defined insured persons in the unit. Existing teams exceeding the agreed standard of principal ratios or the number of persons insured for 2019 shall provide health services up to 130 % of the excess during the regular operating time. In addition, the healthcare provider receives for the first four years 80 % of the resources from the calculation of the Family Medicine Clinic. This should also stimulate young doctors to enter the system. The second step of Annex 2 to the 2019 General Agreement, which also identified, inter alia, the method of obtaining additional funds for the award of teams which, under cumulative conditions, is at least one additional office hour per month or more, in accordance with the expert opinion of the family medicine doctor, exceed the number of thousands of 895 headcounts per scale to the national average. The scale is five degrees and is an integral part of this annex. With regard to measures to ensure universal access to health care for insured persons who could for objective reasons be left without a personal physician, the Ministry of Health has already had two meetings with medical universities with regard to the possibility of increasing enrolment in both faculties. A Regulation on amendments and additions to the Regulation on the upper limit of the number of offers for work in 2019 has also been adopted, allowing the importation of doctors from third countries and the recognition of their professional qualifications under a specific law in Slovenia. The amount is fixed at 55 specialists in family medicine. In accordance with the sectoral legislation, the Ministry of Health already called on the Ministry of Health to notify by 15 October this year the justified need to employ doctors of specific specialities from third countries also for 2020. By establishing the upper limit of the number of job offers in the Republic of Slovenia, it is thus possible to allow for a faster process of recognition of professional qualifications obtained in third countries, which is faster in terms of complexity and execution than other similar procedures. At the Ministry, we also personally conduct meetings with young doctors in order to encourage them to apply for family medicine specialisations. However, given the problem, there is, in fact, no uniform answer to how to achieve the goal, as it is a matter of different systemic measures, and the results will not be visible for more than a few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Minister of Health Aleš Šabeder will answer the question of Member Sam Bevk regarding the implementation of the Minamat Convention on Living Silver. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The Minamata Convention is part of the European acquis in the Republic of Slovenia and is mainly implemented under various regulations restricting the transport and use of mercury and mercury technologies using mercury. For the implementation of the remaining areas, the European Union adopted in May 2017 Regulation 2017/852 on mercury and repealing the 2008 Regulation supplementing the Union's administrative order and laying down provisions to ensure full compliance of the Union's acquis with the Convention. By means of these legislative measures, the Minamat Convention in the Republic of Slovenia has received all the necessary implementing legal bases. As an upgrade to the Convention of the European Union, the Minamat Convention also imposed restrictions on certain uses of mercury in Amalgam bays and ordered Member States to prepare national action plans for their total elimination. At the same time as the preparation of the EU Regulation, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Chemicals carried out a review of the situation in the areas governed by the Convention during this period. The study carried out by the Institute of Joseph Stefan did not indicate open areas which should be specifically regulated under the adopted regulation. The use of mercury in dental care was limited by last year's amendment to mandatory health insurance rules and the preparation of an action programme for a complete ban is under way. Waste emissions and recovery of contaminated areas are carried out by the Ministry of Environment and Space in accordance with EU legislation and national programmes and strategies. At the international level, the Minamat Convention became operational at the first Conference of the States Parties in September 2017 by adopting key documents for its operation, namely the Rules of Procedure of the Conference of the States Parties, the Budget, the Financial Rules, the Financial Rules, the Financing Rules of the International Financial Mechanisms, the Location and Placement of the Secretariat. During the period following, various technical documents and guidelines have been prepared to enable the implementation of the Convention. The criteria for monitoring its effects, which the conference is expected to adopt at this meeting, are particularly important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk will ask a supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for answering my question, which I asked at the September session of the National Assembly. I will, of course, once the magnetogram is available, read your answer again accurately, and I would like to say the following. In Idrija, a silver mine has been operating for 500 years, and this has left a huge impact on the environment that still exists today. Not only in the environment, but also in the health of people, but especially former miners. It is also in Idrija, as well as in Slovenia, which has concentrated a great deal of knowledge in this area, because there have been world-class scientists here over the centuries. Today, this knowledge is concentrated at the Institute of Joseph Stefan and this year's leading expert received the World Award for Living Work in the Field of Mercury. That was Professor Dr. Milena Horvat. In addition, the Minamat Convention also has its financial mechanism, which is in the World Environment Fund, which operates within the United Nations Organization, and I have never heard of the Republic of Slovenia ever drawing funds from this fund. And since the Minamata Convention is an opportunity, I think we should take advantage of it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Minister, there's something else you'd like to add to your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you, Chairman. One brief explanation for the Member's regional centre for mercury in Idrija. The Convention has already abandoned part of the regional centres for mercury in its early stage of negotiations. The Idrian Centre could be involved in its implementation with its own programmes, which it would offer under international cooperation and implementation assistance mechanisms. According to our data, the centres today do not have the necessary expertise and programmes or capacities to appear in these processes. However, Slovenia must, of course, ensure that the competent authorities are fully staffed, especially at the Ministry of the Environment and at the Office of Chemicals, and therefore, at this level, we implement the Convention to a limited extent, which otherwise ensures compliance with its obligations. It is significantly more pervasive and more active in the field of expertise. Here, as you have already mentioned, the Department of Environment at the Jožef Stefan Institute, which, in fact, with its professional references and international cooperation and other activities, applies to one of the more recognizable professional institutions, not only in the region, but also in a global sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u101	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr Miro Cerar, will answer the question of Member Luke Mesca regarding the Finnish initiative on the prohibition of imports of Brazilian beef and soybean into the European Union. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. The oral question of Mr Mesca, in fact, relates primarily to the fires in and the reaction of Slovenia to them, but, of course, it asks whether Slovenia will support any possible initiative, as also provided by Finland, which would be a compensatory measure within the framework of the European Union's trade policy decisions, is about exports of Brazilian meat to Slovenia and so on. Let me first say that the Slovenian government shares concerns about the management of world forests, both Amazonian and Angolan and Siberian and others, and in particular the situation in the Amazon jungle, which is of paramount importance for maintaining biodiversity and global climate balance. That is why we are following this issue fully and closely. From the very beginning, we join the calls for an end to the fires in the Amazonian forests and for sustainable management of the Amazon Spring. We also support the European Commission's recent proposals to strengthen the European Union's action to protect and restore global forests. Every time we have an opportunity, we stress and promote sustainable, co-ordinated and multi-purpose forest management both at home and at European level. We also encourage everything that benefits the planet, and I can therefore say with confidence that the deforestation of these forests and fires is not only a seasonal problem, but also a problem of a long-term forest management strategy, Slovenia is joining and will continue to join many countries and organisations here. The trade agreement with Mercosur is said to be supported in principle by many countries of South America, which the European Union wants to conclude. This is a mutual benefit for the European Union, including within Slovenia, as well as for some countries of South America, of course. The final decision to support the agreement will depend on the demonstrated willingness of all signatories, including Brazil, to comply with all agreed provisions in good faith, including those relating to sustainable development and the fight against climate change, in the period until the text is finalised. This decision is expected to be final in about a year and a half when more information is available. A study on the impact of the agreement will be published this month. As Member of the Moon has already identified, an important part of the agricultural processing industry in Brazil is aimed at foreign markets, i.e. the European market. This export of beef and soybeans to the European Union is also concerned. And that's why this matter depends on Brazil's reputation in the world. I am confident that the Brazilian Government will also have a hard time hearing the concerns and demands of its trading partners in the future, so that we hope and believe that, by then, through this mutual negotiation, there will be an increase in the care for these forests, even on the basis of such thoughts on possible restrictions. It must be said, however, that no such decision has yet been taken at European Union level. It is being studied by the European Union, including Finland, including Austria, which has adopted some conclusions, and is likely to study these issues in the future. So that Slovenia, along with the other members of the European Union, will also accept here every thought in the direction of, of course, helping or also encouraging Brazil to clearly protect its forests. So much for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. We are moving on to questions from Members and Members of Parliament, first round. The first is Member Zvonko Černač, who will raise an oral question to the Minister of Culture mag. Zoran Poznań. [[adverts from benches]] Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u104	I may have overlooked, Madam President, but the Minister has not been announced among those who will not today, but I wonder whether I am right or wrong to know whether I am asking a question to the absent minister or to a minister who is just not in the Chamber right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u105	Here. The minister is not in the Chamber, nor is he excused. I think only Minister Poklukar is excused. I suggest you ask the question anyway. If there is no minister, then I suggest you request an oral response at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u106	Thank you very much. All in attendance, all in attendance! I have raised a question for the Minister concerning the management and management of immovable cultural heritage. I'm talking about building cultural heritage. I'm talking about cities. Castles represent an important part of our cultural heritage. In 1991, Ivan Stopar described 84 castles in Slovenia. Since then, many have received a new image, new contents, and unfortunately some are still ruins and are waiting for the state to see to their proper marking. All over the world, the castles are lit up at night. Not only castles, but also castle ruins, are illuminated, of course, adequately repaired, for they mean historical value that points to an individual nation’s heritage. For example, it looks like the Black Castle at night. [[shows photo]] This was the case with the Predjama Castle at night after its independence and also during the time of communism. [[shows photo]] And that's what the Predjam Castle looks like in the time since Mr. Marjan Batagel has been running it. [[shows photo]] It's not a mistake. It's in the dark. The castle, an important part of our building’s cultural heritage, has been in the dark for some time. This photo was taken a few days ago. Why this important part of our building heritage is in the dark, I asked the predecessor of the current minister some time ago. I sent him a written question, and I got the answer that this is a mercenary thing. The tenant, as I said, is Mr Batagel Marjan through a company that also manages the Postojna Cave. The rental contract was concluded by Mr Batagelj Marjan for the Predjamski Castle during the government of Alenka Bratušek in 2013. Of course, I'm asking the minister: Does he think that one of the important castles in Slovenia is in the dark at night? Does that seem right to him? And I ask him: When will the castle of Predjama be relit? In an answer, which was published by the Primorska News on my written question, it was obvious that the problem was in a few hundred euros. Indeed, Mr Batagel said that electricity costs are too high. And by going through the natural rent one large part exclusively to the operator, when the state can't get out of this rent, we're talking about millions of profits. Please respond to the next session.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We've also checked in the meantime. The Minister's not available. I think it is right, however, that at the beginning of the meeting there should be an indication which representatives of the Government will not cooperate that this forecast is correct. In this case, this is not the case and we will require an oral response to the next meeting. We're moving on. Ambassador Tadej Šuštar will ask the Minister of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Ksenija Klampfer a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, there will be a general debate at this meeting of the National Assembly on the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds, which we have tabled in the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. The essence of the bill is to exempt student work and scholarships from taking into account the common income of households in the exercise of rights from public funds. Student work allows students to enter the labour market through work, gain the experience that employers require in most of the calls, and also establish contacts with potential employers working in their education. An important aspect of the student’s work is that during vacations they can earn some money for time during study, for help to the family or for other needs. Young people are already learning how to handle and manage money. All these incomes are now considered to be the total income of the household, and as a result, it may occur that the family, due to the student work, exceeds the income limit and loses the state grant, the rent subsidy for the apartment, the school meal subsidy and lunch, have a lower child allowance and other rights. For these reasons, it is essential to exempt the student and student work from the common income of the household, since this would upgrade the work and the students, especially today, when we find in Slovenia that the work is not paid. I ask you, Your Honor Minister: Do you support the New Slovenia proposal? Do you not find it a criminal arrangement that needs to be removed as soon as possible, for why punish families who strive to raise children in values such as work, diligence, and responsibility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that and thank you so much for asking. The rights of public funds under the Law on the exercise of rights from public funds are rights which depend on the material situation of a single person or family. The fundamental feature of social protection rights, including social assistance schemes, is their subsidiarity. This means that the individual and the family must exhaust all means of providing self-sustainment. This is also followed by an arrangement to take account of revenue from public funds rights based on the principle that all incomes and benefits should be taken into account, other than those allocated for a specific purpose or intended to cover specific needs. This means that all the incomes listed in the law are taken into account at present also the staff scholarships and the income derived from the student and student work. Let me stress that in monetary social assistance, the security allowance, subsidies, rents, child labour income through student service are now only taken into account in the amount of the difference between the average monthly amount of informal income received during the last three months preceding the month of application and the EUR 201 minimum amount of basic income. The survival limit for a child now amounts to 0.59 of the basic minimum income, or 237 euros, which means that these average monthly amounts of up to 200 euros in determining the material position are no longer taken into account and thus do not affect the right to financial social assistance, a security allowance and rent subsidies. The average monthly income of students and students up to €400 is calculated at a level that does not exceed the child's survival limit. Since 2013 we have further strengthened the situation of children's families in the social legislation, so that part of the child's allowance is not considered income, the allowance for a child in a single parent's family has increased both with cash social assistance and with the child's allowance. As a result of the increase in the eligibility limit for school food subsidies, the range of beneficiaries of school food subsidies has expanded. However, as of 1 January, all beneficiaries of cash social assistance and social security aid amounted to EUR 30, as regulated in May 2018, and from 1 January 2019 onwards, all family savings measures were abolished. As of 1 July 2019, children’s allowances, state scholarships and allowances for a child, large family allowance, child support and parental allowance increased. However, despite these measures, which have strengthened the social situation of families, we note that legislation which is the basis for deciding on the rights of public resources is extremely complex and can have an unfair effect, particularly in the light of income from property. It is only in case of specific cases that complex legislation shows that the rules are not in line, so it is necessary to take a systemic approach to remedy the inadequacy of legislation. The Ministry is therefore in the process of simplifying social legislation, which will be more user-friendly and more equitable to share social transfers. It will also explore the possibility of introducing a new way of taking into account incomes, which will also comprehensively examine the impact of income on social transfers, including on the income of students and students, as you propose. The objective is to determine whether certain incomes can be taken into account differently in order to achieve their purpose and to relieve the social weaknesses. At this point, I can say that the proposal for amendments to the law, which will lead to a more fair sharing of social transfers, will be presented by the Ministry in the first half of 2020. We will also try to take your proposal into account in this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The following is Member of the Parliament, Dr Matej Tašner Vatovec, who will raise an oral question to the Minister of Defence, Karl Erjavac. Here you go. Procedural proposal first.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Vice President. I don't know what's going on with the government representatives, I think the list of issues and order is very clear, and we could ensure the presence when ministers know they'll get the question. I believe that the question I will ask is also important to me from the point of view that I would get certain information in the discussion of the budget, so I suggest that it wait until the Minister arrives.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you very much, dear fellow Member. Even in this case, we checked to see if the minister would come or not. We didn't have any information. I'm obliged to go in line. Okay, then we can move on. Here, ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you very much again, Vice President. Minister, good-bye! It is clear that the budget of the Ministry of Defence is always inspiring and full of surprises. What I am going to ask you, what I have also announced, is one very detailed purchase foreseen in the 2020 and 2021 budget, which is listed only in one sentence of the 57-page explanation of the MORS budget, namely the so-called purchase of vehicles 6x6. These vehicles are mentioned, as I have already said, in one sentence in the entire budget explanation and are included in the development programme plan, which bears the name Main Combat Equipment. This NRP covers many things, in it we find various things, such as Cerklje airport equipment, special forces equipment, upgrades of some radars and so on, while here we are talking about relatively large purchases of vehicles 6x6 already in use by the Slovenian Army. I have already pointed this out on the Defence Committee when we discussed the budget, and I have had to insist for some time that I have received certain answers, in particular that these are the so-called waves which the Slovenian Armed Forces leave because of inappropriateness or impossibility, because they are too small for one fighting group because they have poor anti-ballistic protection and so on. Now, the Ministry proposes that these vehicles that you intend to replace with armored 8x8, but you failed to tell me at that meeting what the price, how much of these vehicles will be, and so on. We have received information that will be delivered by General Dynamics, who is the only manufacturer of these vehicles in the world, but you do not know how much, you do not know how much they cost, and that you are still doing market research. So, market research, for a product offered by only one producer in the world. So I would like to hear from you here, even with certain information that has come to the public after this meeting of the Defence Committee, that someone has assured the media that you will buy 14 waves, that these will be some updated vehicles, but that you still do not know how much you need them. I'm very interested in the numbers in particular: What is the planned number of these vehicles? At what price will they be delivered? From what source will funding be provided? Will the entire purchase go from the main equipment? At what stage of preparation is the investment documentation? When will the supply contract be concluded? When do you expect the first shipments of these vehicles?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. I also welcome everyone, the President and all Members, Members, Ministers and Ministers. First, I'll initial your statement that the defense budget always brings some surprises. I must say that there have been no special surprises over the last 10 years, because the funds that have been earmarked have mainly been earmarked for salaries and material costs alone. In the last 10 years, there have been no major investments in the defence area, including due to the economic and financial crisis, and also due to the priority of all governments, all public systems must first be taken care of. As far as the specific question is concerned, you have already asked the Defence Committee and we have answered quite precisely the needs of vehicles there. It's light armored vehicles 6x6. There we've given you all the information and now I'm going to repeat that there will be no misunderstanding here. As far as these light armoured vehicles are concerned, the Slovenian Army has expressed its need. It's 14 vehicles. However, I must say that the Slovenian Army currently has 85 of these vehicles and that they somehow represent the backbone of the Slovenian defence system. Given that the purchase of 8x8 armor will not take place for a while, this purchase is not foreseen in this budget, the Slovenian Army believes that it is necessary to maintain a common one, which represents the backbone of our defence system. As it is said, these vehicles are already quite wasted, on average their age is 16 years. However, we want to be perfect in order to achieve the completion of the existing material formation with missing armoured vehicles 6x6, namely the completion of one infantry company. In this regard, I would like to say that this need for the purchase of these vehicles is also identified in the annual report on the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces. You know that in recent years the Slovenian Army has always received a negative assessment, as far as combat readiness is concerned, that is what the state of war says. If this assessment is to be corrected, it is necessary to collect these vehicles, light armoured vehicles 6x6. Like I said, it's 14 pieces. But once again, I would like to stress. This is not about setting up a middle battalion group. These vehicles can only be complemented by the fact that this purchase is also justified from this point of view, since it is likely that the middle fighting group will be composed not only of eight-wheelers, but the middle fighting group has a number of other assets needed by the Slovenian Armed Forces if it wants to have a middle battalion group. What stage is this purchase? I can't tell you what the price will be, because there's not even a public order yet. This issue is placed in the regular budget of the General Staff of the Slovenian Armed Forces for the years 2020 and 2021, so that we currently have a document of the Identification of the Investment Programme. This is still in the process of coordination and validation. So first, of course, the procurement procedure will have to be carried out. Once this procedure is completed, a contract will also be concluded. Of course, this contract will also set a price on the basis of a contract. You're just saying that the only company that makes these kinds of vehicles is General Dynamics Steyr. Look, this is a matter of public order. However, it is necessary to know that we are tied to precisely defined vehicles because it is a complement, as I have already said, of one infantry company and we probably cannot include any other vehicles that do not belong to this company.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the request for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thank you. Look, Minister, that's not what I'm saying, that the only manufacturer is General Dynamics, but that's what the director of Mr. King's Directorate, who says the only manufacturer of such vehicles is now General Dynamics. That's why I want to know: What will this market analysis be if your director of the Logistics Directorate, who, of course, is very capable and I know that good at MORs of these things, knows that this is the only manufacturer? Then the analysis of the market is actually pointless if I help you a little bit. General Dynamic supplies the same vehicles to the Austrian army and supplies them by 13 million each. I think they've bought them for about 105 million euros in recent years. So I'm wondering, some preliminary price you probably have for how much this thing costs. So if we do a quick calculation like this, 3 million times 14 vehicles is 42 million. This is nine-tenths of this part of the budget as regards the main equipment. The entire NRP of the main equipment weighs 53.9 million. So this is a relatively high investment for vehicles currently in use, I think, only in Latvia, where it is envisaged that the hoods will be drawn to Latvia, so I do not think it is an indispensable combat equipment or backbone of the Slovenian Army. You might say a little bit more about this: How is it that you do not yet have an assessment, given that the budget provides for what will be the right source of funding and when will the first delivery actually be? Already in LKOV 4x4 or in the Oshkoshi we have seen how these things are going on on the MORS, where similar to these were hidden right in the NRP main equipment, in the rebalancing for 2019, and then it was paid from this.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Look, I'm not gonna argue with you whether this equipment is necessary or not. I'm not the one who would argue with the Slovenian Army either. I said in the introduction that the Slovenian Army had identified the need to purchase these 14 light armoured vehicles. I told you what the reason is is that this is about the completion of one infantry company. I said that when the readiness of the Slovenian Army is assessed, precisely because this company does not have these 14 vehicles, we get a negative assessment when it comes to war preparedness. And that's why this purchase, once again, is justified in terms of the military profession. I believe that as a client of the Left, just any money that concerns the greater security of our soldiers, every money involved in the equipment seems unnecessary. But if this country has decided and decided to have the Slovenian Army, it is not only the responsibility of the Minister, the Government, but also of the National Assembly to provide adequate security equipment for the functioning of the Slovenian Army. As for the price, I repeat, it will be an investment programme. That's where it'll be determined what this vehicle should be, because it's not just a vehicle. This vehicle will also be upgraded with weapon systems. It's probably a 2.7-millimeter machine gun, 40-millimeter bomb. And then it also depends on what price, which products, manufacturers will be chosen as regards the upgrade of this equipment. And, of course, it would be very irresponsible and very unprofessional if the Minister of Defence were already speculating what the price would be. But here we are tied to a specific type of vehicle, this is about these light armored vehicles 6x6. You appreciate our director of logistics, you complimented him. I believe him that he's probably the only manufacturer if we want to complete this infantry company, General Dynamic, it's called Steyr. What will the invitation to tender bring, what kind of configuration, this is of course the Slovenian Armed Forces and also the matter of the order itself and the investment documentation. At this point, it's too early to operate on numbers. The fact is, the Slovenian Army needs this equipment.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you. Maybe it's about safety first. In the Slovenian Army, it is used as a material for the military education process, and I will read this part: “LKOV 6x6 armor”, these are the waves, “not protecting the loaded section from direct hits from anti-arms cannons, from rocket strikes or direct hits of artillery weapons. This means that commanders must carefully analyse each situation, weigh all the advantages and disadvantages of boarding and disembarking infantry in combat and decide on such a way of using LKOV 6x6, so that they do not expose them to the enemy's direct fire operation from anti-lock weapons, tank cannons, missiles and artillery. It follows that LKOV 6x6 as an armoured transporter due to a high level of mobility, protection and firepower is often used only as a means of transport that delivers infantry to the landing site, which is at least far from the enemy's position, from which it continues to fight outside the vehicle." In short, the wave is a little tighter than the van. And that's why the Slovenian Army decided to replace it with the new 8x8. And here we leave to the side now the position of the Left, the debate on what the defence model of this country or the army should be, if you will. This is the question of the sense of purchase, which is, according to our grave estimates, 42 million euros. You're not going to speculate, we're going to speculate at this point, let's say we speculate, and we're going to see in a few months what the actual numbers are going to be. But my key question was why, knowing that these vehicles would go to peace, if I were to say so, and they would be replaced by the new 8x8 vehicles, why now the acquisition of these vehicles, even though the military already has 85, data on how much we don't actually have spent, but well, let's just leave it on the side. I therefore propose that we simply discuss this issue at one of the future meetings, where we can also discuss these issues in more detail. As it is said, more than 40 million are difficult investments, very likely to consume a large part of this NRP. The key question is whether such an investment makes sense. Why don't we reroute it somewhere else? Even though very few of these vehicles are actually in use. As far as I know, we're still not under military threat, but even if we were, our soldiers in these vehicles would be sooner than sitting ducks waiting to be hit. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 22. October, in the framework of the vote. Ambassador Lidija Dijak Mirnik will ask the Minister of Culture mag. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister, minister, everyone else present! Mr Minister, the issue of the Maribor Library is very well known to everyone, including you. We've actually talked about this a number of times. In the meantime, when we have not solved these problems, several mayors have changed in Maribor. For many years, then, those responsible have been trying to provide the necessary means of recovery. As we are now in the process of adopting the 2020 budget, 2021, I ask you: Can the Mariborians promise that we will be able to reach a modern library that will, of course, be in line with all the regulations, but that we will come to at least a little bit like those cities in Slovenia that already have a well-designed library? Is there any chance that the so-called library will change into, in quotes, a multi-purpose centre that can offer citizens quality leisure time and where the library also houses? Are you thinking about other, cheaper, or more acceptable solutions? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you. Your Honor! Madam Member, of course, the spatial problems of the central unit of the Maribor Library are in fact the subject of discussions and planning for at least the last 20 years, and as time passes, it is also escalating. I know that there were two directions to either building a new building or at least moving to another location. The Maribor Library should provide at least 6000 square metres of suitable, adequately accessible and interconnected surfaces after all gauges. The conditions in existing premises on the Rotovska market are unsustainable, the building is long-lasting as investment maintenance was not carried out as a result of the planning of the investment. It is said that everything has been left to some promise of a better future. At the Ministry, of course, we are aware of the importance of the appropriateness of spatial conditions, both for the accessibility of library public service and for the wider accessibility of culture to citizens. However, the funding opportunities of the Ministry of State Cultural Infrastructure and the possibilities for State co-financing of the project into local infrastructure are limited financially. This is precisely why, and of course this is one of the main reasons, the Ministry of Culture has prepared a bill on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture to address the most pressing spatial problems of some cultural institutions. This law will take into account, in particular, the following criteria for co-financing: the design documentation which, as far as it is known, is now being prepared in Maribor; the threat to basic activities due to inadequate spatial conditions, which is also, of course, fulfilled; and other conditions and criteria related to the development aspects and aspects of cultural heritage protection. Thus, for these purposes alone, at least EUR 11.5 million will be foreseen in this new law. Of course, I must point out that the State, the Ministry of Culture in recent years, has taken several steps to address the spatial problem of the Rotovska market library, with 10 million euros being provided in 2008 as part of the European Capital of Culture project, but these funds have not been exhausted because of the construction permit complications. In 2016, the Rotovska market and Maribor Library were placed in the current development programme plan 2016-2019 and the estimated co-financing value was EUR 2.67 million, the condition was comparable to that of the municipality and the necessary documentation was provided. So much for that. In the first place, this investment is, of course, the responsibility of the Maribor City Municipality, with which we are very well involved and, as you mentioned, we are, dear Member, in constant contacts and conversations. The municipality is the one who has to prepare a financial structure for the investment and find resources for it. With regard to the specific question of the possibilities for the central unit of the Maribor Library to turn into a multi-purpose centre that can offer citizens quality leisure time, we explain that modern general libraries are recognized and indispensable centres of knowledge and local information centres for different target groups of users. So we support this idea. We will, of course, participate creatively in the implementation of this, because we think that this is the only right way not only for the future new library of Maribor, but probably for all library fortunes, if I say so, in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ambassador Alenka Jeraj will ask Health Minister Aleš Šabedra a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Well, hello, Minister. Standard question, I could say, eliminating waiting hours in health care. In the past, we have carried out a number of projects or measures that are supposed to shorten waiting lines, but we find that if they have already been shortened somewhere, they are only temporary, for the time that the measure took place, and sometimes we have even extended them for some interventions. This is certainly not right, or we must all ask ourselves together what we are doing wrong. Thus, the first project from September 2015 to July 2016 provided almost EUR 8 million for this purpose, selected 14 operators, 9 public hospitals, 5 concessionaires. We had a realisation of 74% at the time. The worst in this was the Ljubljana Clinical Center, which was implemented for one programme in virtually only 9 per cent. Then, in the following period, from April 2017 to March 2018, we had an estimated total of 36 million and spent 8 or more over the whole period, in short, significantly less than planned. In response to my colleague Jelka Godec's question, there is always a lot of excuses for the problem of personnel, the problem of spaces and so on. I agree with this, but in any way it will be again when a call is made, when the programmes can be implemented, the Ljubljana University Clinical Centre, which certainly has the best conditions, but then does not implement the programme, while probably someone else can implement it. I'm asking you: Exactly how much money has been spent in recent years? Do you think that was effective? Are all the tests done? Have we made any progress? How do you assess the measures so far taken to eliminate waiting species? Rather than shrinking, they have virtually no shortening in any area. How do you plan to arrange waiting lines in the future? We know you're forecasting again 10 million extra money to eliminate waiting lines. Will you include only public institutions or individuals with concessions or clean individuals?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. Madam Member, we are preparing at the Ministry a proposal for an action plan for the management of waiting periods for 2019 and for 2020. It includes several areas and does not focus solely on shortening waiting periods. It is divided into content covering the areas of financing under the general agreement as well as activities related to the quality of data on waiting and waiting periods, a revised data monitoring strategy at national level and a network of health operators. This year, a pilot project was carried out to optimize waiting periods in the field of orthopaedics. We plan to continue with a similar approach in future in other areas where long waiting periods are unacceptable. The next important activity we set ourselves this year, which will last for the following year, is activities to improve the quality of data on waiting and waiting years. Data in local systems were found to be inconsistent with data in the eProcurement system. For this area too, the National Institute for Public Health, in cooperation with the Ministry, has drawn up an action plan, which is already being implemented. We have also invited foreign experts from the World Health Organisation and the European Observatory for Health Systems and Policies to help solve this problem. We are also preparing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Patient Rights in an accelerated manner. In the framework of the general agreement for the following year, better evaluation of programmes and payment of over-expenditures under the capacity framework are planned. The projection of the Health Insurance Office shows that €5 million has been earmarked for waiting periods and $8.5 million has been allocated from the budget. The cut of these funds has not yet been established and is in the coordination phase between the Ministry and the Health Insurance Office. Long-term measures to reduce waiting types go in the direction of, for example, expanding the range of services that can be carried out during daily treatment or in the daily hospital, increasing the time available to treat patients at primary level, and rationalising the network of healthcare providers. Most European countries face the same challenges of long waiting periods, as population ageing and increased demand for health services is, in fact, inevitable. Financial incentives for health service providers to increase the supply of services are important in this regard, but they do not always provide a long-term impact on waiting periods and we have also started with the preparation of a proposal to establish a more efficient organisation of the public health network. The proposal includes several stages, with the first phase representing a picture of the situation including data on health workers and the scope of the programme, specialist outpatients, activities and acute hospital treatment. The timetable provides for the preparation of the proposal in the coming year. Our future activities will also focus on the transfer of responsibility to management and the Council of Institutions for the effective implementation of health care activities, and thus on ensuring that health services are as accessible as possible. Without the active cooperation of the operators and responsible leadership, the objective of halting the trend of rising beyond the allowable waiting period will simply not be achieved or will not be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complement or further explain the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u132	Minister, you said we would eliminate waiting species in the period 2019-2020. In 2019 it is practically over, what much we will not do. According to the analysis, that's why we had additional backlogs, because in fact, the contractors got the green light very late to start doing some things. Things need to be planned in such a way that it is clear at the beginning of the year who will do something and how he will do it. But if we are now talking about 2019 and something backwards, of course in 2019 we will do nothing if we do, we will do in 2020. I think that one of the problems with these solutions is that we also spend more money on it, and we really don't take care of the conditions. With the same number of employees there will be no real cuts. If the same people work for a month, two, three, maybe they can work overtime, but for a year or not. And if we don't solve this problem at the same time, so enough teams and so on, we'll have problems. I'm talking about smaller performers, but not, like, a clinical center where you said yourself that some people work under average. Apparently, they don't even know how to spend that money they're going to use. Mr. ZZZS Marjan Suselj said that hospitals have only used half of what is possible. We are working on information procurement, e-procurement, all to help everything together, and in the end, nothing or even these obstacles are a problem, so that we do not shorten waiting lines. The Chamber also says that we should reward or give penalty to those who do not do well. As I said, the clinical center will probably run again and also get, even though it was the worst at the time. Similarly, Celje General Hospital did not realize what it had committed itself to. How are we going to handle this, or whether you're assessing that there are also any sanctions? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. There's something I owe you. Yes, I agree, this year's project is actually in the last quarter and not all the effects will be visible this year. I believe that in the coming year, given that we are starting the project now, these effects will be slightly greater. We have included all operators, so with the definition of services that will be further implemented, we include all operators. So I believe that this scale will not only be implemented in certain public health institutions, but in many, so I believe that more programmes will be further developed. Of course, we are faced with problems that you yourself have mentioned, a shortage of staff in doctors and in the field of health care. We also identify bottlenecks in certain operating halls, so that things, as I said in the introduction, need to be dealt with in a complex way both in the field of personnel, in the area of equipment. Of course, it is necessary to provide funds, as people need to be paid for additional work after all. Waiting lists and accurate data. I think they are very important, and I have been dealing with them since the beginning of this mandate. This pilot project, which we have carried out in the field of orthopaedics, sees the same – there is still a discrepanian among waiting lists led by the operators themselves and the NIJS-led data. So we do have a lot of challenges in waiting times. However, I believe that we will be able to reverse these trends by making this project complex and actually starting to address bottlenecks and the problems that are causing the waiting species. I'm sure the waiting species will stay. The waiting species are always and will, as I have pointed out many times, but I believe that, through the learning of the pilot project and after the implementation of these knowledge to other types of health services, we will succeed these negative trends, which are negative and growing from year to year, in a positive direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u136	I propose that we hold a debate on the Minister's response. In fact, you have not replied to me whether you support the proposal of a chamber that says that you would even charge pens, or whether you are thinking that, for example, you would not approve the programme to the clinical centre or that you would approve it as much as they have been able to implement an additional programme in recent years. However, we know that some doctors say that they have too few programs at the clinical center and that they could work more if the program were extended or given more responsibility or funding. You said there were waiting lines somewhere else. Here. But for some things, there are abnormally long waiting types. And not only do we not shorten them, we actually increase them. That certainly means we're not doing something right. In fact, there must always be guidance that waiting species actually shrink. I think that, in fact, they could be reduced very quickly if all those offering services were included in the market. I know that some of the problems with private individuals, with clean individuals or with concessions, but if they have been more effective and after these analyses have been more effective so far, they have carried out a programme of almost 100% or up to 95%, some public institutions, I have already mentioned the University Clinical Centre of Ljubljana, the General Hospital of Celje, not even 50%. So why do we give money or money after realisation anyway, but why do we consider someone to do 100 units if they're capable of making 50. Make 50 of them and 50 of them made by someone else who's capable. I propose that we hold a debate on this. Of course, we will keep track of the data coming from the waiting species.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, October 22nd, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Dusan Šisko will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you. Nice hello to you all! On October 17th, we were able to see a contribution on the construction of flood protection on the Krka river in Krka village, performed by INFRA Public Company. With praise for the work done, the people expressed fear that the current protection of the village of Krk would not be sufficient if the worst floods in the area had taken place four times over the last 50 years. It would also be necessary to raise the embankment along the Krka River and deepen the Sava, which will only be possible after obtaining an environmental permit for HE Mokrice. As we have already heard in this temple of democracy, problems have arisen as a result of the demands of a group of environmentalists who, because of one fish, would completely ban the construction of the last in the chain of hydroelectric plants on the lower Sava. Of course, every animal species is important, but in the world, between 50 and 100 species die out every day. But with us, they would stop a project that they had planned for over a hundred years and is finally ahead of completion. At the same time, we are endangering the safety of people and their property. We were able to learn from the media that new documentation is now being prepared for this power plant and new costs are emerging. At the same time, environmentalists are threatening to disable every new hydropower plant in Slovenia, even though it is a renewable energy source that they stand for. That's why I'm asking: How long will the people of Krka and Savi live in uncertainty? How late will it be to build the last hydroelectric power plant in the lower Savi? Who will be responsible for the damage caused in the event of severe floods and damage caused by lost electricity?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for the question to the honourable Member. Our Ministry is actively involved in the construction of flood-related measures related to the project of the construction of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant and the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant. By implementing the flood-related measures financed under the project of the construction of the Brežica hydroelectric power plant, the threat has decreased significantly in the village of Krk and the village of Veliki Malenca. However, security has not yet been ensured for the return period of 100 years, as the measures are also linked to the construction project of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant. Here it has to be said that not only in this part of Slovenia, but elsewhere, given what is being predicted, have developed models on the Ars for future weather events and what will happen to us is that the amount of precipitation will still be the same as it is now for Slovenia, about what will change, but it is that these precipitation will fall fewer times in the shorter years, which means that when it falls, it will suddenly be huge. And if they are concerned in this part and as you say they live in uncertainty about the flood, we have much more concern in Slovenia in other parts of Slovenia. In fact, we will not only be hit by floods, we are threatened by beaches in much of Slovenia because we have such relief. So for the future, given what is happening to us in the climate, if these models that have been calculated on Ars are realized, we will have a lot of uncertainty throughout Slovenia. I keep track of construction works in the village of Krka and Veliki Malenca, and sometimes, I have to say, I am also critical of some delays. For example, in the Great Malenca, most of the work should have been completed by July and due to some unforeseen circumstances, it was only in September. This is how you warn me as Ambassador Zorčič constantly about what is happening on the ground, so I am very well aware of this. However, I can see that the works are under way, at some point they are already concluding the remaining measures, i.e. for the village of Loče, Mihalovec, Rigonce and Catež are foreseen for the construction of Mokric. The implementation will take place once all previous administrative procedures have been completed, or when the investors, the concessionaire HESS and the public company INFRA have been given a decision on the environmental agreement and it will become legal. For all these arrangements, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also provided financial resources by adopting a programme for the implementation of water, state and local infrastructures and water and energy infrastructure facilities in an indivisible relationship with the construction of Mokric in 2017 and in line with the progress of investment and the annual needs of INFRI provides in the business plan and rebalancing the business plan. About the question of how late it's gonna be. It is difficult for me to answer this whole question. In fact, that energy component will be a question for another ministry. The construction project of the hydroelectric power plant chain at the bottom of the Sava, the whole chain, should be completed in 2015 as originally planned, but delays in the construction of previous power plants indicate that this deadline for the completion of the entire chain will not be achievable. From the point of view of our ministry, the delay in the construction of the power plant can be assessed primarily in terms of achieving the objective of ensuring the anti-floating protection of sites where hydroelectric plants are located. If the envisaged flood protection due to various complaints is not ensured, the cost of delay will be the damage that would possibly result from the flood, which is difficult to assess in advance. I hope there's no harm done. As I said, we will have growing problems throughout Slovenia because of the relief, so it is not only the floods that threaten us, but also the reptiles.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you. Look, Minister, we didn't get along so well. Let me remind you that a fellow Member, Tomaž Lisec, who is also coming from Posavje, has been asking you in the summer whether the Government intends to amend the legislation so as not to stop important development projects by non-governmental organisations. Finally, I asked myself just before the extension when the project stopped. On 3 October, the Government replied long and wide that the current legislation is also relevant for the most important projects and that it is primarily concerned with the democratic nature of the procedures. From this we can understand that nothing will change in this respect and that small groups of people or even individuals will be able to continue to block important sites for the country. That's the way it's coming from. It is right to take into account all aspects of a particular problem, but in my view it would be necessary to assess the actual pluses and minuses of each new facility in an objective and timely manner. With regard to the chain of power plants at the bottom of Savi, I am most concerned that there has been a blockade now that the whole project is just before completion. Now the construction of HE Mokrice will move for at least another year, perhaps even more, as nature’s keepers threaten to stop the construction of hydro power plants in Slovenia completely, even in Zagorje, Trbljevje, because they are planned further. That's why I'm asking: Where is the right of people whose nature is destroying their property, and sometimes endangers their lives, and where is the responsibility of all citizens who are paying dearly for these projects, which are already difficult to reach?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u144	We are, of course, bound by our legislation as well as European legislation to place such facilities in space. Even when I talk to ministers who are not yet in the European Union, I do not know, with Albanian, Macedonian, Montenegrin and so on, if I call it a problem in terms of complaints in the process of building such buildings, they too have problems. Indeed, it is necessary, as a country, to ensure this legal certainty. Non-governmental organisations acting in the public interest of environmental protection have this right to exercise their interest in these proceedings even through the courts, unless otherwise possible. We are now reviewing European legislation to find out if and how we can make this legislation faster. It must be borne in mind, however, that as a rule of law, we must ensure that decisions of the State are entitled to be made by individuals or organisations if they are in breach of any right to have a party in the process in order to be able to complain. There is a lot of room for improvement in the process management itself, in how we talk to all organisations, with all possible complainants during the process, about how we involve them. In this way, a number of ambiguities can then be resolved sooner than then in a court of law. It is also important to be aware of this, and I think that, as much as I talk to some countries where they are more successful or faster in these procedures, they are putting a great deal of emphasis on this – the inclusion of all interested groups already in previous procedures, in preparation for putting such an facility into space. We are checking only legislation and, if possible, will, of course, optimise it in this part, of course, in accordance with European legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ambassador Soniboy Knezak will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues! On November 1st, the Day of Remembrance of the Dead draws near, when with some customs we symbolically show our memory and respect for the dead. Unfortunately, there is also a dramatic increase in the number of headlights that are then accumulated in the cemetery operators of the municipal public service for municipal waste collection. Large amounts of stored waste of grave candles also increase the fire risk, as demonstrated a long time ago in fires of waste in various parts of Slovenia. The problem is also the large piles of other waste packagings that accumulate in the backyards of waste management centres. Although some amendments have recently been adopted, including the Waste Lights Regulation, the Law on Inventory Measures in the Management of Municipal Waste and Waste Cemetery Candles, but cautions that waste continues to accumulate dangerously in waste collection companies. Data show that the amount of waste packaging in Slovenia has increased from 53 000 tonnes to 105 000 tonnes in the last five years. In August, the Ministry of the Environment and Space stated in its reply to the question of the mission that the work of the Central Slovenian and Primorsko-Intranje region, where 2 000 400 tonnes of unoccupied municipal waste packaging, and for the collection of 695 tonnes of waste candles, repeats the public procurement process because they did not find operators for the removal of waste. That's why I'm asking the minister: What is the amount of waste packaging, including the headlights waiting for removal from the waste centre? Has the Ministry of Environment and Space already found waste collection operators for the whole of Slovenia? If not, which area is it not? Is the collection of waste packaging carried out in accordance with the objectives set? What concrete measures will the Ministry take to ensure that the consumption of grave candles in Slovenia is reduced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you for asking. The very problem with waste in Slovenia is difficult and extensive. Although we have now taken quite a few measures in this short time, both with regard to the adoption of regulations and the fact that we are just ahead of making the final comments that have come about to amend the PSC with regard to new waste legislation. Soon this marriage will be on your hands too. But these are the legislative measures that, of course, have a transitional period to even come into force. Even when you have everything well received on paper, that doesn't mean things work out for us in practice. At this point, we're pretty far away from this. I see the problem that, as a country in waste management, both dangerous and dangerous, we are not self-sufficient. Which means that the smallest earthquake that happens to us at a global level or only in the neighborhood can mean that the country is practically stopping us. Therefore, there is now a great emphasis on my activities on the fact that, at some point in time, in addition to this legislation, which we will bring and which, in my opinion, appropriately and correctly addresses all these problems, will then be followed by another step that will be even more important. And this is that we will also be able to physically process our waste. Here we will always run into where with such objects, where we will put them, how we will achieve that the local community will accept it. But first, it seems to me that there must be awareness among all of us that we owe our own waste as a state to take care of ourselves. If we don't want to regain that consciousness right now, we're going to do it after our borders really close and we don't know where to take these wastes. Now if I go to your questions. The intervention law was passed because last year we faced a pile of waste. The purpose of the intervention law is, of course, to take those nearly 14,000 tonnes out of the country. We have almost achieved this goal. Now we've taken 10,000 500 tonnes, there's still 3 000 200 tons left, of which we have 800 tonnes of contracts already signed, and the rest has to be repeated, because no one has reported them, and there are waste candles in here. Fallen candles are a problem for us, because we are a country that has this strong tradition of lighting candles for November 1st, which is a lot of candles. Of course, our wish would be to reduce that amount. This would, of course, reduce this problem. But we are aware, of course, that this is a tradition that is rooted in Slovenia, which is essentially beautiful. November 1st is the time to remember all of our dead and to revive them in our minds at that moment. I also regularly visit the graves of my ancestors. However, I have made this leap that may still sustain tradition, but it is ecologically better, and it would make sense if, as a country, we were to give it a little more awareness. I don't buy candles anymore, but I buy a nice flag from charities. This way I still keep this tradition, I go to the graves, I worship, at the moment we exist at the grave, we remember our dead, and at the same time I do two good things. One good thing is that I don't burden the environment, and the other good thing is that when I buy this flag, of course, I help the living who are in distress now. So I think this is such a good way. I think we need to maintain this tradition, and then, of course, we also have a consequence with the waste of grave candles, which are also a major fire gambling. With regard to fire safety, we have adopted a new regulation, but it is still a transitional period before it enters into force because it is necessary to adapt. Where did we not get or fail? Centralslovenska, Primorska and Notranska region, this is C3, where 2 000 400 tonnes of unclaimed municipal waste packaging, and for the collection of 695 tonnes of waste grave candles, this is set A2 and B2, we repeat the invitation. I think I answered.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr Member, please, you have the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u150	Minister, I understand in the context of the measures you have taken at the Ministry to reduce the number, I don't know, you've reached agreement on these plastic bags in shopping malls and all the problems that are also, not least, when buying goods, meat, everything we're turning into this foil, and this is a matter that's a little more complex, that it's time-consuming. However, I do not see the need to take any action against the use of candles or to see the need for candles to be poured into plastic packaging, with which we later have such a major problem. Are you thinking, in addition to the other measures that you have already mentioned, about the ban on candles in plastic packaging? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u152	The ban on candles itself should have a broader consensus, but it comes from our tradition. But there are already products that are biodegradable, and so are candles that are not poured into plastic. Some alternative is slowly starting to happen. But as I said, I have a better alternative than ecological candles or electronic candles, which are still in plastic, of course, these flags that are not ecologically problematic, and at the same time they do this good work to help people who are still alive today, that is to say those people who are currently in such a life situation that they need this help. I'm not generally a big supporter of the ban. I think that softer measures are better, but if we are faced in other areas with no other way of doing this, of course, such measures are being considered. But right now, I don't think we're there yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Ambassador Tomaž Lisec will ask the Minister of Health, Aleš Šebedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u154	Thank you, Vice President for your word. Dear ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, all of them a good greeting! In fact, it is just a matter of continuing my health issues and initiatives, which are likely to affect every citizen, every citizen in a different way. Of course, I always want to point out the local posavina note. The fact is that although I have raised quite a few questions and initiatives in this area, there are still some open issues. Allow me, Minister, to count them for you. I gave your predecessor an initiative in connection with the establishment of a satellite emergency centre in Sevnica. From this point of view, I wonder: What will happen in 2020 and 2021 in the field of emergency medical care, helicopter emergency medical care, dispatch centres? Does helicopter emergency medical care already work the way you set it? What will you do in the next two years in this area? How does dispatch work? What will you do in the next two years to make this system come to life? Your predecessor promised he'd be 31. 12. no problem running call centers. Perhaps there is another question in this area. Are you thinking about buying a new helicopter, or will the Republic of Slovenia, in mockery of all other serious countries, lend military and police helicopters that are not basically intended to transport emergency medical care? The next thing I'm very interested in is a problem you've already highlighted today, a lack of personnel. Here I have my question and the answer from the December of last year, where we find that we have a problem with lack of doctors in Slovenia. Among those who have the most problems in the field of doctors, we are also in Posavje. In short, I want to know: What will you do about the lack of doctors in 2020 and 2021? In this opening part, the well-respected minister, I am also interested in what we discussed earlier this June: Will you implement conclusions on the rehabilitation of public health institutions? Will the strategy for the development of intensive medicine in the Republic of Slovenia take place this year or in the coming years? This is of interest to me in connection with the implementation of the conclusions we have adopted, but on this implementation of the conclusions below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Dear Member, if we continue with the area of emergency medical care and emergency centres. Public health institutions in Posavje will be subject to activities at our Ministry in order to ensure that Brežica General Hospital with its emergency centre becomes the centre of emergency care. It is a matter of closer integration of emergency medical units with the Health House Krško, Brežica Health House. In the Sevnica Health House area, however, because of the unfavourable position and transport infrastructure, emergency medical care will be strengthened in terms of the development of the satellite emergency centre. This will mean the possibility for patients in the local environment to complete treatment of certain emergency situations that do not require emergency treatment at the hospital. I can say for helicopter emergency medical assistance that intensive talks are taking place with the Ministry of Defence, where funds are provided for the purchase of helicopters for the operation of emergency medical care, so that this part of the response will in fact be required to contact the Ministry of Defence. If we go a little further, on one of the key problems you mentioned, this is a lack of personnel, especially doctors present in the whole country, not only in your region or I will say in the Brežice area. The lack of doctors is recorded in all areas, most of course at the primary level, then at the secondary and tertiary level. Today I have tried several times to explain to your fellow Members and Members what measures we are taking in Slovenia to ensure an increase in the number of doctors. Basically, there's definitely been an increase in enrolment in both medical schools. As I have already said, there are intensive discussions with the management of both medical schools. As you probably know, the admission to both medical schools since, I think, the school year 2011/2012, when the largest number was enrolled at the Faculty of Medicine of Ljubljana, that was 220, started to decrease and today it is only 150. Which means 50 or 70 doctors less per year, which certainly means a shortage of doctors. He also reduced his entry at Maribor Medical College for 10 years, where he now stands, I think, 85 enrolled. Most of the entries were 95. So now we actually have two colleges, both of which are a little bit more enrolled together than the University of Medicine entered Ljubljana in the best time. This is certainly one of the biggest challenges. I believe that, together with both the Ministry of Education and both universities or the management of universities, we will find solutions or meet those urgent needs in order to increase this entry. Where, in fact, should we provide new doctors, if not from our own school system? You know, if you look at the enrollment or the number of applications in both colleges, you'll see that we leave probably a few hundred students at the door, and there are a lot of golden graduates who stay at the door of both colleges, and we keep wondering where the minister is going to get the doctors. Yeah, probably from my own school system. I cannot draw them out of my pocket now, unfortunately, with all due respect, Mr Member. We have also increased the order for maximum imports of doctors from third countries, but as I have repeatedly said here, what a terrible interest there is, because in fact these doctors migrate to countries where payment is better. So the basic condition is definitely an increase in enrolment in both colleges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the questions, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you. I hope the magnetogram doesn't fool me, and that you also say from this place that the satellite emergency center or SOC Sevnica will come back to life sooner rather than later. Thus, the four - year reading of emergency medical regulations, emergency meetings, amendments and parliamentary questions apparently fell to fertile ground. So thank you very much. With regard to helicopter emergency medical care, I will consult with the Ministry of Defence on your advice, because I think I also need quick help in this time of need, and the quickest is helicopter emergency. With respect to the personnel, yes, of course, it's not all up to you. We have a Minister of Education who should follow you in this area. It is true, however, that we talk too often about the role of doctors from third countries, but we forget that we are part of the European Union and that we are obviously ourselves the biggest glass in the development of these personnel. To conclude, Minister-in-Charge, I would like to know: What about the strategy for the development of intensive medicine in the Republic of Slovenia? What about the law on the management of public health institutions that you predicted? When can the management of the Brežice General Hospital receive a positive response, especially the funding for the CIT and PACU project, which is valued at around EUR 5.3 million? In short, strategy, marriage, Brežice General Hospital – perhaps for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps a few more clarifications regarding investments at Brežica General Hospital, first of all what is already under way or is actually being prepared within the framework of available funds for investments in public health institutions. Of course, one part of the investment is made or we have provided funds for Brežica Hospital. This is currently the renovation of the hospital pharmacy at Brežica General Hospital, where an estimated value of around EUR 800,000 is estimated. For this investment, the areas dedicated to pharmacy activities will be increased and modern equipment will be provided. As regards the project to complete the GOI works on the first and second floors for the needs of CIT and PACU and the radiological department at Brežice General Hospital, yes, the estimated value is currently EUR 5 million 387 thousand 32. This is how it was presented in the investment documentation. The object of the investment includes the execution of the construction work, as I have already said, the installation part, the final part on the first and second floors of the K building, which is built until the extended fourth phase. The investment is intended to arrange the first floor for the needs of the anaesthesiology department, resuscitation and intensive treatment and the second floor for the radiology department and part of the technical level. The project is to be implemented simultaneously under the conditions of the establishment of a network of public health institutions. As far as the provision of funds is concerned, I must tell you that these funds have not yet been provided. Somehow they expect the Ministry of Health to provide a million EUR 566 000 358 for construction, craft and installation works. You mentioned a law on the management of public health institutions – the law is being prepared in accordance with a timeline that we have also set up at the Ministry. We did not do it ourselves, but we also included hospital management or hospital directors in the preparation of the law, so the profession is also involved. We will also try, if I say so, to draw up or prepare an artificial law that will in fact eliminate those key anomalies or the problems that hospital management is dealing with today, from the system of remuneration, labour law, rights, duties and duties of management, the role of the boards of institutions. This is one of the more important laws and one of the priorities that we are also preparing at the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u162	Given that time has passed too quickly and that there are a lot of problems in the field of health and it is probably right for Members to react seriously enough and concretely and ask themselves not only questions, but also together to find answers, such as the development of intensive medicine in the Republic of Slovenia, the management of public health institutions, the lack of staff, if we put together the issue of emergency centres, both those already built and with certain needs, like those not yet built, if we have here, in view of the proper service of emergency medical care, and the desire for satellite emergency centres and the desire for effective helicopter emergency medical assistance, I believe that there are more than enough reasons and introductions to the next meeting of the National Assembly, we are having a serious debate on my question, what direction and what development of health care we wish for in the coming years. I'd suggest we confirm that tomorrow. Not to fight left, right, top, bottom, ours, yours, but to support those who decide in the executive branch of the authorities on health policy, but in particular to hold this debate because we specifically want to provide our citizens and citizens with confirmation that we are thinking about them and that we do not wish health only on birthday cards, but wish them an effective health system. I therefore propose that the next meeting discuss some of the key challenges of Slovenian health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, October 22nd, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Anja Bah Žibert will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Minister, Minister! On the subject of invalidity pensions and pensioners, we have spoken quite a bit in this National Assembly. Recently, once again in the SDS, we postponed the amendment of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Minister, that's when you and the coalition rejected this proposal. Of course, this did not mean that the most vulnerable group, these people with disabilities, would receive a pension that would at least be at the level of social assistance. This was rejected, but it was promised in a debate where you were not there, and I believe that you are aware that you have different solutions. And today we are really interested and not only in me, but also in the general public and in many disabled pensioners who are now addressing me daily during this debate. I want to know: What exactly are you preparing for the disabled pensioners who are doing this today? It means not what will happen to those who will retire tomorrow, the day after or when your marriage on pension and disability insurance will be adopted, but what changed it for those who are disabled pensioners today. At least 7 000 500 are those who do not have a disability pension or 300 euros. All I care about is the measures, nothing else, no legal basis, just the measures you're about to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u166	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. With regard to the question raised, I first explain that a government proposal for the Law on Pensions and Disability Insurance, which was also coordinated with the social partners, was sent to the National Assembly. The current proposal covers the social situation of all future pensioners equally and while maintaining relations between them, i.e. disabled pensioners. They take into account that individuals are retired on the basis of the legislation in force at the time of the occurrence of the insurance risk and that rights are also measured on this basis. I explain that, therefore, the new legislation will not be taken into account for them, but I stress, nevertheless, that their pensions are higher than those at the time of their retirement, since their pensions are both regularly and exceptionally coordinated. In this place, I explain, however, that in the past changes, an institution has already been established to guarantee the level of pension, which also provides disabled pensioners with a full retirement pension higher than they would receive on the basis of an insurance principle. However, I would like to point out that our system, the insurance system established on the basis of work on it, is therefore considered to be an appropriate distinction between professional and non-professional risks. I explain that disability insurance is granted higher rights than they would be on the basis of the very principle of insurance, since their assessment also takes more account of the principle of solidarity, i.e. the dose of the lowest pension base, the lowest invalidity pension, the age added and so on. Nevertheless, it is not possible to grant disproportionately higher rights to these individuals compared to the rights recognised in the scheme on the basis of the occurrence of the insurance risk of age. Since this is an insurance system, it is not possible to compare individuals with one year of retirement and individuals with thirty or forty years of retirement. It is also a question of how much of the risk of disability, which is not due to injury at work or occupational disease, is prepared for solidarity by all other system insurers. I would also point out that, irrespective of age, disabled pensioners are entitled to a protective allowance correspondingly higher than the basic amount of minimum income recognised under social assistance, but are entitled to it under the conditions laid down by social protection legislation. The invalidity pension belongs to the insured regardless of their social situation, the social situation of their family and regardless of their property status, i.e. only depending on the length of the insurance and their pension base. However, it is ensured that it will be received unlimited, even if it had to be obtained only on the basis of one year’s inclusion in compulsory insurance. Nevertheless, I stress that this is a system in which solidarity can be reflected, but it cannot be decisive because we have an established insurance system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to complete the question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Chairman, once again. Yeah, it saddens me. I am saddened by this answer because in the debate when we had our proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance, I have repeatedly warned that there will be no change for those who are currently disabled. And today you've confirmed it, they won't be here. So, tell me, Minister, how can someone who has 234 euros in disability pension survive? 244 euros, 270 euros, 287 euros and so on? You mentioned earlier what our system is like, we know this very well, but you also talked about the principle of solidarity. See, what solidarity does the government have in the country of Slovenia if someone who has not had a single day of work and who receives social support receives a higher amount of EUR 100 than the one who has worked has become sick, so it is not his fault that he can no longer work today and gets so much lower amount? I also cannot agree that we cannot equalise groups of those who have worked for several years more than others. See, even the lowest pension is fixed and there are differences between them. Thus, those who receive the lowest pension also differed in their payment and so on. In short, it's just an excuse. However, I am seriously interested in and concern for our citizens and citizens, who are actually becoming not only a social category, live far below the poverty threshold and many of them also need help. The security supplement is something completely different and we know what it is, but something in this area needs to be done and I really want to know if you are preparing any solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u170	Thank you very much. As I mentioned earlier, individuals can apply for a protective supplement, where it is permanently unemployed or unable to work or older in women for 63 years or men 65 years. At present, the price of the protective allowance is also higher than the full pension for 40 years, i.e. the price per single person is EUR 577, while the price for the two-member family is EUR 899 of the protective allowance. Thus, of course, these problems can be solved. However, I would like to say that according to the ZPIZ-2 the lowest disability pension is set at at least 36% for men, in 2019 it is EUR 309 and 39% for women, in 2019 it is EUR 334 from the lowest pension base. The average disability pension in the Republic of Slovenia was 509 euros in the previous month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Chairman. 309 or 300 euros, we'll probably agree, it's there. And you'll probably find it hard to tell me how to survive this man. We're talking about invalid pensioners, respectable. These are people who often need additional help. Not only do they have to survive this amount, but they sometimes have to pay for additional services, such as transportation and so on, on their way to treatment. In short, we've really talked about this. We discussed this, but I think it would be necessary to have another joint debate. Look, when we tabled this bill, Minister, we have said that it is the first reading and that it is possible in the next steps to change the law, correct, supplement and, of course, find some common solution, some common way that life for these people will change for the better. We've been thrown out. Like a roller. Forgive the expression, but it seemed that way, no dialogue, it's not for you, but even though it's 30 million, now we've bought a helicopter that costs half that amount, even though Germany, for example, has ten times that amount. In short, there's enough money, and this shouldn't be the problem. The problem is, above all, the will and the ability to talk, to hear from each other, and above all to hear from our own citizens. No one in this country can, and it is wrong to get more social support in a way that did not have a single day of work, to have higher social assistance than someone who is a disabled pensioner, could even lose health at work and not be recognised. We know very well that such a matter must be acknowledged. But not all things are recognized. And we have to help these people somehow. We have to look for solutions, we don't have to talk about what kind of system we have, we know what we have, but this isn't good. And that's what I'm talking about, and something has to be changed. I therefore hope that this debate will be voted on and that together we will be able to look for ways and ways to somehow improve the lives of these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, October 22nd, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Gregor Židan will ask the Minister of Health, Aleš Šabedra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u174	The Honourable Minister and the others present! The Sports Act in Article 35 defines the right of an athlete to preventive health care, namely that right belongs to him in accordance with the rules governing health care and health insurance. In fact, the possibility of carrying out a free preventive medical examination by categorised athletes is that they are at least 14 years old and have the title of a youth, state, outlook, international, world or Olympic class. These athletes can perform checks in Ljubljana and Celje, but the current system has some shortcomings. The quota for carrying out free reviews is too low, allowing for a review of about a thousand 800 athletes of 6 thousand 500 category athletes. The number of jobs, that's only two in the whole country, is significantly too small. It is also a matter of whether, in the event of an increase in the number of checks, we have sufficient educated and professional staff to carry out the checks. Therefore, the current system does not allow all categorised athletes to be reviewed, except to extend their implementation to a wider category of registered athletes. It is also worrying that young athletes under the age of 21 are not currently included in the preventive health care system, except for regular systematic health checks carried out in the framework of school examinations for all pupils. The increase in the number of these reviews would be particularly relevant for certain sports sectors where the intensity of training is still increasing, especially at the end of primary school. You certainly agree with me that in the case of categorised athletes it is necessary to increase the possibility of carrying out free medical examinations. These are athletes who are already training at a higher quality level and with higher burdens, which means they are exposed to higher health risks that need to be monitored carefully. One of the general principles of action in sport is that it is necessary to create the possibility of quality sport in a healthy and safe sport environment. In this regard, Mr. Minister, I ask you: What measures are you planning in the future to increase the possibility of conducting free medical examinations for athletes? Are you considering increasing the number of quotas for free medical examinations for categorised athletes? How will you address the problem of the insufficient number of entities carrying out these checks? When can we expect positive developments in this issue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u176	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Member, registered and categorised athletes have the right to preventive health care under applicable legislation from solidarity-based means of compulsory health insurance, as laid down in the rules under the responsibility of the Minister or the Ministry. The Ministry of Health, together with expertise, is preparing a proposal for amendments to the Regulation on the Implementation of Preventive Health Care for Children and Adolescents at the primary level of healthcare in the final phase. The proposal for a regulation will set out the way and extent of the preventive examination of children who have registered sports status and compete in sports industries defined by the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. The Ministry of Health is aware of these problems of sports children and is active and proactive in this area. In 2017, 2018 and 2019, we gave special attention to children of athletes in the context of the European Week of Sport. Together with the Faculty of Sport, we organized a resounding professional consultation on this subject. We have also published a brochure entitled Support Your Sports Child, which has helped to raise awareness or raise awareness of the profession and parents of what is a healthy sports activity of young people, and highlighted the most important aspects of healthy sports of young people, thus also contributing to the long-term success of Slovenian sport. In addition, all our children have a selected personal physician, who is a specialist pediatrician and is available at the primary level, which ensures quality preventive and also curative health care for all children. It is true, as you say, that preventive reviews for categorised athletes are currently carried out by only 1.5 teams of medical sports specialists, which is less than they were years ago. If there are professional reasons to increase the number of teams, only these should be presented to the general agreement partners in accordance with the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u178	Thank you. If we count 6 thousand 500 categorized athletes and only a thousand 800 reviews are carried out, that is to say, 4 thousand 700 athletes have not been examined. I don't know how they can even compete. That's the first thing. God forbid they get hurt, because then I don't know what's gonna happen. The next problem is registered athletes who are required to make medical examinations so that they can compete at all. Obviously, this is one big business because these checks are charged separately. Count that every review costs a circus between €40 and €50. I think it's particularly painful for the parents of these children here. You mentioned personal doctors, but they must not give a certificate that a child can even engage in sports. That's why there are special doctors and they confirm. They have to pay again. But the bigger problem is the injured athletes. At the moment when they get hurt, we forget about them a little bit and it's all left to him. I might suggest in this direction that these medical examinations may be carried out in Maribor, Kranj, Koper, New City, because it is difficult to believe that one of Ormož will be taken to Celje to perform this medical examination, although it is probably more of a quality than a personal doctor. Now maybe for closure. When winning, we all know how to paint with athletes, but when losses or injuries occur, we quickly forget about them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Maybe a little more explanation. As you yourself mentioned, we separate two groups of athletes: registered athletes, which are somewhere between 35 and 45 thousand, and categorised athletes, who are between 5 thousand 500 and 5 thousand 600, who are then separated by categories of perspective, republican, superior and so on, as you have already mentioned. In accordance with the legislation, they have the right to a preventive examination from compulsory health insurance before engaging in selected sport discipline and then every year, we are talking about registered athletes. These reviews are currently largely not carried out or carried out by doctors of very different specialities, some of which are also financed by the Department of Health Insurance. Arrangements in this area are necessary as more and more sports associations to participate in competitions also require medical certificates and more and more parents require these certificates from the selected doctor. The Ministry of Health and the Olympic Committee of Slovenia and the professional medicine of sport and pediatrics have already sought various solutions, which would also be financially sustainable. In the proposal for amendments to the Regulation on Preventive Health for Children and Adolescents, we have thus stated that one health examination is carried out from compulsory health insurance funds for those competing in sectors where the profession considers that there are greater burdens. This review is carried out during the period when training becomes more intensive and the examination is carried out by a specialist who will have a sport-oriented education. But if we look at the category or group of categorized athletes. Overviews of categoryed athletes are rights from compulsory health insurance. In Slovenia, reviews of categorised athletes paid from compulsory insurance funds are performed by only 1.5 teams. One team in UKC Ljubljana at the Clinical Institute for Labour, Transport and Sports and 0.5 teams at the Celje Health Institute. Although there were two teams in Ljubljana a long time ago, one team was restructured at the request of UKC Ljubljana in a specialist physiotry service. Thus, the current number of teams does not allow all categorised athletes who are subject to a preventive inspection each year to carry out this review. For years, the Olympic Committee has somehow wanted to provide an overview of all categoryed athletes every year, which requires an increase in the number of teams. At the end of 2018, the Ministry of Health has made a calculation which shows that there is a deficit, at least four teams or at least three new time to the already existing 1.5. As I explained in the previous part of the response, in fact, a proposal will have to be drawn up through the proponents or signatories to the general agreement and placed in the next general agreement, i.e. an increase of either three or four teams, in line with the needs we currently have.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u182	Not really. I'll just thank the Minister for his answer. I hope he does what he said today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u183	Thank you, too, for your thanks. We're moving on. Dr. Franz Trček will ask the Minister of Public Administration Mr Rudi Medved a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, the House of Honor! There is one very simple indicator of how politics treats fellow citizens and fellow citizens. It is enough to look at the relationship, the working conditions, including the trade union rights of those who, when we usually come, either to the ministry or to the National Assembly, wish a good morning, those who turn off the lights behind us, those who literally clean the trash behind us. My question concerns something called outsourcing with a foreigner. I just went to look at how our Slovenian-English dictionaries translate it and most translate it as an exploitation of external resources. In practice, however, this is essentially the exploitation of human resources. We have had quite a few governments with this story so-called slim state administration, public administration. I remember this story from my previous job, with the FDV, because we once cut our power sources out, gave them to some external provider of these services, and then they collapsed into each other, and with each new one, there was always a worse situation, a worse situation. Then the FDV and the Faculty of Philosophy somehow decided to hire these people back. The end of outsourcing and insourcing, as is said again with some little ugly foreigner, is also in the commitment of the coalition contract, is also in the commitment to an agreement with Levica. Mr Minister, on the Committee on Home Affairs, Public Administration and Local Self-Government in Budgeting, I quote: "that a total of 587 jobs, 402 cleaners or cleaners, 102 receptors, receptors and 80 maintenance or maintenance workers would be necessary for the implementation of the project." [[…]] In doing so, you predicted that you would hire 10 people back at your ministry. To put it mildly, I find this mockery both in the coalition contract and in the agreement with Levica. That's why I'm asking you: Will the next two budgets provide funds for the employment of these 587 people? What will be the timing of this employment? You know, it's basically a political will. This is not so much a matter of money, because after all, this money is given to an external contractor. After all, we will employ 350 people during the EU Presidency. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u186	Dear Members, honourable Members and, of course, honourable Members! And I look forward to your question. And I must say first of all that, of course, we are not making fun of this issue, either in the coalition agreement or in the agreement with the Left, but we are seriously devoting ourselves to this problem and, of course, we are going to solve it. The numbers you've given, I'm not going to repeat these numbers, they're keeping everything from this analysis that we've prepared, but to illustrate why, because you think it's all going to be so very slow or you don't believe it's ever going to happen, and I'd like to take a quick leap into a half-time history, so it's a bad year ago. Just to understand the situation. When we came to the ministry last September, a month or two later the Ministry of Public Administration faced a problem. The Ministry of Public Administration is the one which is obliged under the Law on State Administration to provide all these services, which we are talking about, to the authorities of the state administration, to almost all the ministries and to some bodies in the composition. At that time we faced the problem that the company that provided these services and was in a contractual relationship with the Ministry of Public Administration or with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that we had certain problems with that company at the time and were very quickly forced to terminate the contract. At that point it was necessary to seek a solution because, of course, it was impossible to hire people from today to tomorrow, who would then do these jobs instead of these so-called outsourced people. This was impossible overnight, and we had to find the performers to keep these works running smoothly. We have also done this in a few days and concluded contracts, for more had to be found for a year, because for less no one was even willing to conclude contracts, and even less so that we would enter into contracts clauses that we might not, in the middle of the year or at any time in a year, be able to implement this contract because we will employ people. Here we, the Ministry of Public Administration, found ourselves in the midst of the obligations we have under law and we need to provide services and, of course, during the decision to resolve this problem of outsourcing. Of course, throughout the year we have been looking for and found a solution to how we will successfully employ people in about the same number as you mentioned those numbers. So it's not about hiring 10 people at the Ministry of Public Administration. That's what we're going to do. In November, when the call for proposals is completed and these jobs will be practically active with the new year when these contracts expire. At the same time, we are preparing this cut across individual ministries and other bodies, how these jobs will be distributed across other ministries. With employment and organisation of work, we will also come up with exactly what it costs, since it will be necessary for the other authorities or ministries to see how much it will cost them when we cut off these jobs. Funds for these jobs are provided. Of course, when we are still forced to tender for 2020, because, as of 1 January, not all bodies will be active in this job. These funds, which are now provided for the implementation of this cleaning through oursourcing, will be successfully transferred to individual ministries, which will then finance these jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u187	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u188	Thank you. I'm glad you've admitted that the funds are provided, which, of course, is logical. But it's some kind of activity that was sometimes called what it was, a common service. This is a matter of some activities that cannot be carried out in a profitable manner. And often, in particular, in the case of protection, it is also a matter of some history that maybe the fathers who first took over this outsourcing were less exploitative when the sons came, they became more exploitative. Look, from what you have said, Minister, I honestly cannot understand and accept that this government, this coalition, will actually spend a third of its mandate – the mandate will be a little short, like all of them – to hire one van of people. You know, there's no money problem here, there's a problem thinking out of the box. After all, we could hire some of these people as a cooperative now, help them to organize themselves. That's what I suggested at the FDV, and there was no hearing from any prodecans at the time, I'm not talking about names. We already have a class J problem. We have this problem actually, you know, if we're reading the constitution, we have to ensure that people can live their lives from work. These people can't live. And the fact that you and I don't know what it's like, because, of course, we have an incomparable better income, there's no reason not to do this. Now I want you to answer me in the second part: What will be the dynamics of this employment? If there's only one of the top ten employees. 1st of next year, when do we expect these almost 600 jobs to be filled?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u190	There are more than 600, substantially more than one van. I told you why. At the Ministry of Public Administration, of course, these 10 people could be employed immediately, without delay, as the invitation to tender does not last long, but I told you that we were tied up and we are still on this current contract, to the current contract providing cleaning, security and some other services by the end of 2019, because at that time we were forced into this contract to solve the problem of the entire state administration, virtually all ministries and bodies in the composition that we were forced to sign such a contract for one year at that time. And now that this contract is over, the next contract we are preparing under this call is one such one, and the call will also be such that we can successfully cancel parts of these jobs because we are going to go into re-employment. That's why it happened, because it wasn't so we couldn't hire 10 people in the government in a few weeks. On the other hand, there is evidence of how much we work in the government. So it's purely a technical problem. At that time, of course, we are this solution, how we will do this in 2020, and probably not all in 2020, but something reliable in 2021, but we have used this time to prepare these bases so that we can do it. In fact, the problem is that 10 people would have been newly employed by the Ministry of Public Administration a long time ago. Of course it's not a problem. Secondly, what may be mistakenly thought is that we can directly hire these people who are currently employed through societies, because these are the companies that employ these people, and these companies have a contractual relationship with the country in this case. It can't be directly over-employed. We need to make a public call and find these people on the labour market. There is no direct employment because we don't take over these societies, we don't take over societies, we hire new people. Why that was, but I told you, it's purely technical. At the Ministry of Public Administration, we are now conducting this procedure and you will also be able to monitor relatively in a relatively short time how we take these things in practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Member, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u192	Of course, I will take advantage of the business opportunity to have a general debate on this. In this tripartite state, as I put it, the agreement between the employee, society, the ministry, the state, if we are a constitutional parliamentary democracy, is, as constitutional lawyer Dr Teršak likes to say, prohibited poverty. And these are some contractual relationships that actually generate poverty and make people go to poverty. This is sufficient and also more than an alarming constitutional reason for such contracts to be terminated. And I certainly don't buy these answers that are within some boxing and that is some kind of attitude towards citizens and citizens and is, as Mrs Angelika Mlinar put it, one SAB member is here, an ideology. The president's here. It's an ideology that just sees an employee as some sort of sausage that's cut. I just belong to an ideology that is antipodal to this kind of ideology, and I will always fight this ideology. After all, for personal reasons, because I have too many people in the wider family, in the family, among friends, among acquaintances who cannot live because of the predominance of such ideology, if I say that it was the first decade of improvisation to go to the country, we have been looking at this ideology for almost 20 years. Of course, I will also ask you in the written question of the more precise timetable for such jobs, which will be an integral part of the employment within the state administration. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. The next question will be asked by Mr Franci Kepa, Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc and Minister of Infrastructure Mag. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u194	I welcome both ministers, the remaining ministers, colleagues, colleagues! I'm going to ask you about the problem of building wind power plants: Do these devices really interfere with the aesthetic appearance of nature? Are birds that mass killing, disrupting the sleep of neighbors? In Europe and the world, wind power plants and wind fields grow like mushrooms in the rain. But there's a lot of opposition here. In Germany there are over 30,000, in Denmark they already have half the electricity from this construction. All over Europe and the world, they've had a real boom. Slovenia, however, takes advantage of this energy on the tail of European countries. On the other hand, we are chasing the manna of alternative energy, and on the other hand, we are not taking advantage of what nature literally offers us. Experts believe that wind power generation, solar power generation and water power generation are one of the cleanest energy currently available. Apologize that there is not enough area in the country where the wind blows evenly, or that the wind speed is too low, or that only in Slovenia birds are affected by wind energy are attracted to the hair. Others in Europe do not set impossible conditions for the construction of wind machines and do not wait a decade for them to build one. The minimum initial wind speed for the operation of larger wind power plants is between 3 and 5 metres per second. If the wind speed is too high, the wind power plants will stop so that no damage will occur. There are produced maps running an average annual wind speed of 50 meters above the ground for all of Slovenia, where you can see areas where windmills can be built. These devices would not be placed in valleys, near settlements, along slopes, but experts would mention suitable locations along highways, away from settlements. In Slovenia we have only a sample of installed wind power plants installed under 4 megawatts of electricity production capacity. There are only two major power plants: the Griske Field near Senožeča, you can see from the highway in the direction of Koper, this is the windmill of type E-70, the rated power of 2.3 megawatts, and the Razdrt and several other micro-power plants in Slovenia. The fate of some expensive projects, Banjska planota, Vremščica, Kozina, Selivec, Zajčica, Avče depends on many factors, depending on the state and municipal spatial plans. While a rather dirty fossil fuel power plant operates in Slovenia and we have a nuclear power plant operating in an earthquake zone, we do not try to use pure wind energy. I am confident that the use of other mass alternative clean energy will take place more boldly, and the inhabitants are already installing solar cells for electricity generation on their self-sustainment facilities, for heating and future charging of electric cars. I want to know: What will you do to regulate the area of wind power plants? Maybe a timer. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Your time is up. First of all, she wants to speak to the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The question was raised a little wider for all alternative sources. If it were to be put in such a way, especially for wind energy or energy derived from wind, it could also have more specific data with it, but anyhow. Three important documents are now in the middle of preparation: this is the so-called NEPN, the Comprehensive National Energy and Climate Plan, then the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Strategy by 2050 and finally the energy concept of Slovenia. For this medium, this strategy is entrusted with the Ministry of Environment and Space, so that more can be said about it by Minister Zajc. In the National Energy and Climate Plan, we will certainly also define how much energy we can gain in our country in the next decade. I fully agree with you that this is not enough. I fully agree with you that in the past Slovenia could obtain more energy from the wind, and the fact is that the most windy country, if I may say so, we are not. But whatever I have said, these three documents will also very precisely define measures to increase the amount of energy generated by renewable energy sources; not only by wind, but also by wind, because we may be the most backward in the wind. Of course, water is our largest renewable energy source, even in the sun we have done something, but there would also be more, and in the wind, as you can see, we have done the least. The national energy plan will first put concrete data on the table, specific targets and also deadlines will be very precisely defined. It is our wish, even though we have until the end of the year to prepare this document. We know that we are going to be a little late, because a lot of calculations need to be made, a lot of people will be involved, but certainly very much, or as soon as possible at the beginning of the year, we want to adopt this document in the government and then present it publicly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u198	Speaking of renewable energy sources for Slovenia. We have good hydropotential, we use it, not in full, where possible, we have good solar potential. In wind, however, we have no good potential except in the part of Primorska. But then it's there when we figure out where we have wind potential, and then we have to put a population map on this card, because the windmills have to be far away from the settlements, and this space is already shrinking. And then immediately we find out that we have 38% of the country under Natura 2000, and that's another card over and then this part narrows down again. That is why we have such problems in placing wind power plants in space, but we still have eight state spatial plans for wind power plants, of which three are in western Slovenia and five are in eastern Slovenia. But all these procedures are in the initial stage of preparation. My view, my opinion, is that by the new wind power plants, it will be a while. However, I think that we will be able to exploit more potential renewable resources in the rivers in the sun. In windstorms, however, we run into obstacles quickly, and we run into civilian initiatives that are against the proximity of settlements. The same as with us is true that where we have Natura 2000 or where we have Natura 2000, the same rules regarding the protection of birds as with us are applied. It is true, however, that our country has placed a large part of Slovenia under Natura 2000 and we must take this into account in this placement, which, of course, prolongs or makes the placement process more difficult.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. Thanks for the answers. True, as you said, Minister, Natura is a bit of an obstacle, but also because of Nature, it is possible to post the matter later — if it is. Experts say that right now, when these highways are here along the highways, there are also cases abroad that can be done and the matter may be easier. [[…]] It's really taking a little longer than that. The fact that we have only two wind power plants, the whole state, is not proud of us. Although it is also true that it is not such a windy country, it is not so small again, even if it is seen on the map, because in Slovenia there are such areas of three to four meters per second, which Natura does not cover. It is true, however, that non-governments are also large in development, given for 12 people who are employed, a million euros a year. It is true that they are, but that they are the main ones, but that the obstacles are some birds, that in Slovenia this is the main obstacle the Birds have elsewhere, but they do not put some wind farm – ten years – into space, so they would not come anywhere. [[…]] If we go to Dalmatia, we see that there are some ten more every year, and they have as many birds as we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u202	I will only add once more to the fact that the documents we have right now on the table will really give very concrete answers for all renewable energy sources, including wind. Believe that, at this point in time, at the Ministry of Infrastructure, including with the Ministry of Environment and Space, we are working very actively on how to provide as much clean energy as possible. Slovenia is, as far as energy is concerned, I think at this point in some very crucial period, because we will draw a long-term course, not tomorrow, but a long-term direction, how and what. However, we must also be realistic in setting our goals. Of course, we need to know certain obstacles, not just the windshield into space, we say all infrastructure facilities for years, not to say for decades, put into space. There may be things that can be cut short here, but whatever, including the environment for which we receive many praises, how beautiful it is, we must preserve for the next generations. Let me just add once again that we are really aware and are preparing a document that we want to make very ambitious, but it must also be realistic. This ambition must be reinforced with real goals, and I believe that, at the beginning of the next year, in the first half of next year, with this document, we can come before you, even though that is not necessary. It is imperative that only the Government accepts it, but it is such an important document that I am confident that we will also present in the National Assembly the objectives that we will have in this document.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary doesn't want a word. Mr. Ambassador, he has a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u204	Thanks for the answers. I will take advantage of this to be discussed in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u205	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Ms Lidija Ivanuša will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikalu. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! According to some data, more than 15,000 children with reading and writing disabilities are expected to be in Slovenia. Because of what is called dyslexia, they have major learning problems. My first question is: What is the official information on children with dyslexia in Slovenia? The first challenge is to detect dyslexia as soon as possible, through regular training, the use and strengthening of different strategies and skills, an individual can learn to successfully face and overcome the challenges of dyslexia in both the school and the home environment. Minister, who do you think will be the first to recognize dyslexia and when? Parents may find it harder to find out if the child is not reading aloud at home. So it is more likely that she will be identified by teachers or teachers. Can you ensure that all educators and teachers are familiar with the characteristic signs of dyslexia? It's a follow-up. The technical guidelines should provide that teachers offer more adaptations and forms of assistance to children within the class before the decision is reached. Children should receive all possible forms of assistance both in teaching and in testing knowledge. By law, however, only the teaching process can be adapted to the child. No adaptation to the assessment of children without a decision shall be allowed. In last year's school year, two letters were to be issued. The Education Institute agrees with the professional guidelines and the Education Inspectorate advocates that knowledge testing should by no means be adapted to pupils without a decision. Minister, why don't you align the law with the guidelines? These letters confuse teachers and school advisory services because they do not know which guidelines and guidelines to follow. We've got a situation where teachers help and we shouldn't have done it by law. If the child’s benefits were first, everyone would follow the guidelines. Why would the aid be conditional on a single decision? However, there are also some schools and teachers who, for various reasons, have difficulties in providing appropriate adjustments during the teaching process also after formal decisions have been made. Does the Ministry provide training for educators and teachers to work with children with dyslexia? Are there any workshops on this subject? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u208	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Member, for the first time, thank you very much for this question, and very nice to all of you! Professional literature, as far as dyslexia is concerned, lists between 3 and 20% of the population. This is professional literature, which is not only Slovenian but is of a global dimension. Research done also mentions between 3% and 20%. Because dyslexia is not usually an independent disorder, but is usually associated with other disorders and also with the dyslexia rule as such, we do not specifically analyse it in terms of how much it is. However, it is classified as a specific learning problem and, of course, because it is a specific learning problem, we also address it appropriately and therefore we have statistics. But, quite specifically, dyslexia as dyslexia, as well as other disorders, is not because they are too large, but we do not classify them. On your second part, when you ask me who should diagnose or recognize dyslexia, it is. During the earliest period, it depends very much on whether the child is at home or is a child in kindergarten — very domestically. If he's home, they're parents, but parents don't usually have professional references. As for kindergarteners and educators and educators in this, I assure you that they are in the course of the study, and this is also a partial response to your third part to familiarize themselves with this topic during the course of the study. Not all of them are top dyslexic experts, but at least for first recognition, they get to know each other. Thus, it is the professionals of kindergarten who can usually find out about the matter. But of course it is, isn't it, as you said; until someone starts learning to read and write, until he reads aloud and so on, this true diagnostic, at least that's what our experts call it, it's not really possible. The Early Treatment Act, however, made it possible for us to start working with the children as soon as possible. So, the idea of the Law on Integrated Early Treatment of Pre-school Children with Special Needs, unlike the Law on the Guidance of Children with Special Needs, is just to start in the earliest period so that these deficits are addressed as soon as possible. Diagnostics, when we talk about diagnostics as diagnostics, usually take place at the beginning of the educational process when these problems are identified. Then what happens? And then there's the adjustment methods that you talked about. If necessary, the decision shall also take place. Usually, and this has brought in a new Law on Early Treatment of Pre-school Children with Special Needs, an individual plan is made and a family is included with an individual work plan, and then both parents and schools are involved in addressing these deficits. On the third question of whether teachers, educators are aware of this, I think I answered you. As far as the guidelines and the law are concerned, I must say that the person who is ordained here is, of course, the Institute for Education of the Republic of Slovenia. They're issuing guidelines. So this problem that you mentioned, I have to say that I don't know him, but we'll be happy if there are really two letters, one of the institutions and the other of the inspectorate, we'll look at it, of course. But, you know, in school I would like, despite a lot of guidance, a lot of legal regulations and so forth, but: the teacher knows. And the teachers know best, regardless of the rules, what's best for the child. Usually this is always within the rules, there is no doubt about it, and there must be. But the teacher is the one who can handle this the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Member of the Commission, a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u210	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. We both agree that children must receive different adjustments in school so that they can have a easier learning process. We know that books were read eight years ago that a 10-year-old boy wrote one of those books that were suitable for dyslexics and later another. [[…]] I want to know: How many textbooks and work volumes are adapted to dyslexics? How many dyslexic textbooks did the Ministry buy? If the kids had them, we wouldn't have trouble reading. Teachers would also be much easier from this point of view. Given the number of these children, the Ministry should seriously consider including adapted textbooks for these children. I add here, Mr Minister, that due to inadequate assistance and inadequate material for these children, it is often a repetition of the class because they do not adapt to the curriculum. Not only are we going to talk about children, but adults also face this weakness that can cause them problems in their employment. I want to know: Who takes care of dyslexics after school? Are our employers understanding enough to employ dyslexics? Although they have difficulty reading and writing, they are expected to be very successful in their work with appropriate adjustments. Or do you have a case like this at the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u212	Thank you very much. First, on what you asked in part, and in the beginning also in this addition to your question. In addition to the formal education where I said that each of our professional workers is in the training and education of happiness with the topic of dyslexia, then we have an upgrade. Because the key to working with children is that this knowledge that professional workers have must never wear off. Professionals also have a legal obligation to educate themselves and the Ministry, on the other hand, has a legal obligation to enable them to do so. I must say that this has been happening every year and has continued for decades now. It is the so-called Catalogue of further education and training programmes, where all these content are listed. If the school sees that it has a deficit in an area of expertise such as dyslexia, it can send its professionals. It's funded by the Ministry. Another source of new knowledge of dyslexia is the Institute for Education of the Republic of Slovenia. They organise from conferences to consultations and so on, their task is to inform teachers of new guidelines and new approaches. In doing so, we must not forget that the European Union has an important role to play, because this is not only a Slovenian problem, but a whole European problem. Thus, in the framework of Erasmus plus, we also have a special group dealing with dyslexia. If we keep going. As regards the professional guidelines and the dyslexia involved, it should be said that in the framework of the pilot project, this time a pilot project by the Network of Expert Institutions to Support Children was chosen as the one to deal with this topic. So Center Iris is the one dealing with dyslexia, and so is that. As far as literature is concerned; we work according to what is suggested by the Institute for Education of the Republic of Slovenia, because they are the ones who set the professional guidelines. Thank you for this suggestion, not least for the initiative, so that we can pay even more attention to this issue of dyslexia in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. No, no, no. I see that the Member of Parliament wants a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u214	Thank you. Since our children and their development are the most important and because the young world is at stake, I propose that a broader debate be held at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u215	Thank you very much. We will decide on your procedural proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Now, Mr Branko Simonovic has the floor to ask the Minister for Economic Development and Technology, Mr Zdravko Počvalšk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u216	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. Dear Mr. Minister, the Post Office of Slovenia, in accordance with the General Act on the Quality of the Implementation of Universal Postal Service, began the formal closure procedure Post office 6311, Jagodje in the municipality of Izola. Both the municipality of Izola and the local community of Jagodje-Dobrava gave a negative opinion on the closure of the post. Moreover, a civil initiative has been set up, which has so far collected just under 2 000 400 signatures for the Post petition. In doing so, let me say that Mail Jagodje services benefits or could benefit the circus 4 000 600 users and a significant number of tourists, as the Post of Jagodje is literally located in the heart of hotels in the municipality of Izola. We all know that the Slovenian Post Office is owned by the state in the management of the Slovenian State Holding. We are also aware that the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, which oversees, inter alia, the postal market, approves the closing of individual mail. Dear Minister, I ask you to present the measures and the timetable of these: When will you prevent the closure of post offices in Slovenia? I believe that in the Post of Slovenia the goal cannot only be profit, it is necessary to provide universal postal services to all citizens and citizens, especially the most vulnerable groups, including pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u218	Mr Branko Simonovic, honourable President, Members of Parliament! The postal service of Slovenia creates all its revenues on the market. In the majority part, it operates under conditions of market competition and also performs part of the tasks of the public economic service, namely universal postal service. I would like to point out that the Post Office of Slovenia as a universal postal service provider is not part of the public sector, but is an economic company of private law. Although owned by the State, it is organised and operated as an economic company in accordance with the Company Act. In particular, I stress that the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, have no direct influence on the operation of the decision Post Slovenia, but its management of the company runs the company on its own. Therefore, Posta Slovenije is subject to market legality and fully complies with and complies with the statutory requirements for the provision of the volume and quality of universal postal services covered by the above-mentioned Decision. The situation in the postal service market has changed significantly in recent years. Research by the Agency for Communications Networks and Services 2018 shows that 57% of respondents visit the post office less than once a month or only once a month and another 27% visit the post office two to three times a month. This is a general trend which requires the adjustment of the network in all European Union countries to the changing needs of users. The actual needs of the population for postal services need to be critically assessed. The optimisation of the postal network includes the conversion of the contact points into more rational forms of contract mail, mobile mail, as well as the closure of those points of contact which are not mandatory in accordance with the general act. Universal postal services are still provided to residents in all areas in a manner and to the extent that: for the first time, in every municipality in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia there is at least one contact point organised as a post office or contract post office. Secondly, for 95 % of the population of the Republic of Slovenia the air distance to the nearest post office or contract post office shall not exceed 4 and a half kilometres. If both these conditions are met and the quality of universal postal service prescribed in an area covered by a specific contact point after its conversion or closure will not deteriorate, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, AKOS, shall issue an agreement on the proposed conversion or closure. The procedure for closing or reshaping the contact point shall always be initiated at the request of Post Slovenia. The postal network in the Republic of Slovenia currently comprises 485 contact points, of which 321 regular mails, 138 contract mails and 26 mobile mails. The postal service of Slovenia fully complies with the required network density requirements throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Cases of conversion to mobile postal services are also taken care of for the most vulnerable groups, including pensioners, that they still have five times a week’s home delivery provided and that certain services can be done through a letter. Nevertheless, due to the current problem, which has been on the air for quite some time now, more than all of this year, we have achieved that the Post has ensured, namely, that I received this assurance from the Post Office that by the end of 2019 and next year it will not close any mail. There are currently intensive activities to ensure the financial sustainability of the universal postal service of adequate quality, taking into account the substantially changed market situation. The Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly shall be held on 5. 9. 2019 adopted a recommendation that the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, AKOS, make a calculation of the net cost of universal postal services by the beginning of November. The data qualifications identified will follow any further decisions in relation to the quality of the delivery of postal services. Once again, according to the Slovenian Post Office by the end of 2019 and in the coming year, no mail will be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u220	Thank you very much for your answer. Mr Minister, everything you have stated in your reply is true and accurate and we have been able to read it from all the documents. However, I believe that it would only suggest that the implementation of the universal postal service is evaluated and taken into account in determining the difficulty of return on capital of Post Slovenia. Here is the ball on you, Mr. Minister, or on the Government, which adopts a strategy for the management of state property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u222	Thank you. One more time. Since 2019, since the optimisation of the postal network, 67 posts have been closed to date, of which 13 post offices have unfortunately been closed in 2019. Of this, 52 letterposts were established and alternative points for the reception and delivery of shipments are still available to residents, namely 24 parcels in sixteen towns in Slovenia, self-service mail in Ljubljana and Koper. On the basis of the contract agreement, the postal service of Slovenia also allows the delivery and takeover of the shipment at 114 petrol services. Of course, we cannot fail to expect the AKOS to do an accurate analysis, as I said, by the end of November of this year, and that this will be the basis for any action below. We will monitor closely the transformation of the Post Slovenia network through AKOS, and in any case I expect that no mail will be closed by the end of this year and next year until we find some solutions that will be satisfactory for both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u223	Thank you very much. We're moving on. You want a procedure? No, no, no. Okay. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Željko Cigler will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u224	Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Placing the third development axis into space has been taking place in Slovenia since 2004. Regrettably, professional opinions are put aside all the time. This is unacceptable to the Korošci because they practically have a fast road connection within their reach, which could have been built by very acceptable means long ago. This must be achieved in this National Assembly for Koroška. It is irresponsible and irresponsible to try, through the law of guarantee, to impose a four-way fast road between Velenje and Slovenj Gradec; this is the roads which – as is now adopted for this section – in advance excludes the economic, lasting, sustainable, most expensive variant of the link between Velenje, Arja village and costs the VAT of 727 million. Roads that will cross western and northern Velenje to the sinking laked lignite wheels of the huge coal mine with huge construction and maintenance costs. A road that will require a tax of 823 million euros for a distance of 17.5 km. If I count from the section, from Arya village, from Šentrupert, Velenje and then to Slovenj Gradac, it is the amount of billions of 550 million, all the time the added value tax. On the other hand, we have an alternative solution starting with the F6 which has been eliminated, which means only 16% of the currently projected amount for the road according to national spatial plans. In short, there's a billion 300 differences. This is a road which runs counter to the VAT strategy and the Resolution on the National Transport Development Programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the period up to 2030 and the European Union directives on sustainable mobility. It is a road that will exclude access to itself for the whole of South East Koroška, this is Dolic, Thinking and places on this part of Koroška. This is a road that will not meet the minimum standard of 20,000 vehicles, as it will not be able to include the existing 9,000 vehicles from Thinking towards Velenje. All of this is amazing for a prudent person if we know that there are many cheaper and more environmentally friendly solutions. Madam Minister, I ask you: How can you still support expensive, time-consuming and ecological, agricultural and socially destructive solutions to this urgent road towards Koroška? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Dear Member, we continue the story of every month's parliamentary questions on the subject of the third development axis, but this time I must say that you have said a very grave lie that I will not tell a lie about the level of the cost of Velenje–Sentrupert section. The only comparable data that we have also provided to the National Assembly, which is probably also available to you, are data that are comparable at the same level. So this is a study of variants and this study shows that the current route is 20 million cheaper than the one you want. This is the first thing, so it needs to be very clear and very precise and people in particular should not be misled. The other thing is, as a minister, I as a citizen, or anything else, by defining this route, I had absolutely nothing. In 2005, I think that the government determined which route this should be, but in 2017, the State Spatial Plan was adopted and the whole process was examined in the Constitutional Court as well. I have already said several times, and today I repeat that I understand people that if they lived 50 years or more without this road at home, that they probably want to go on, but always, even on a new route, the same things would happen. But it's not nice, it's not fair that I don't say anything else, that with numbers like the ones you said here today, you're telling people the truth. Disgusting! What you said today simply does not hold, unless you have counted, in your case, the whole north part compared it to just one piece of new or old work. Next week we will talk in the National Assembly on the Guarantee Law, about the exact numbers we have for certain routes of the third development axis already completed with investment programmes, so to speak, we will explain exactly how and what. But regardless of all the efforts, I am sure that the Koros are not second- or third-class citizens, that we should wait for more years or decades for a new route. I can say that I believe that those before me, whether it was the left or the right government – I mention the period in 2005 and 2017, when the governments were two different political colours – that they went through all possible options that were not small, determined why it was, and then, on the basis of the decision on the route, the State Spatial Plan, and now concrete investment programmes for individual sections are being adopted. As you know, for the upper part of the northern axis it has already been adopted, but for the lower part it is being prepared – I believe it will be ready in a short time – and then we will be able to talk about concrete values. Do not deceive people, however, that one option is worth a billion 300 and the other one can be 16% of that. That's, I'll say, very ugly in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, thank you for this dialogue. I want to fix you. I said it was two parts, where you didn't take VAT into account. What do I have, 24. 9, data on the value of the section from Velenje to Slovenj Gradac – 675 million without VAT. When you gave us other information, you gave it to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission and said that the cheapest option was this F22 – 596 million. I don't think there's any VAT here either. When I add it up, it's a billion 550. If a road from the Arje village, via Velenje, through three viaducts, Bevče, on the grave hole of the east and on the mindset is restored and a fast two-pass road is arranged, 250 million with VAT is needed. Here I'm talking about the difference of a billion 300, it's almost an investment in a power plant. All of this is not taken into account, all of this section is already pointed out by you, when you also sent us the 2008 material, which was chosen, you processed it; from 2008, Madam Secretary-General, so far many things have changed. [[…]] Once, when we spoke to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, I also pointed out that the PNZ, ordered by Darsa in 2014, calculated and said that two thirds of the traffic from Koroška and Velenje was going towards Celje and one third were going towards Ljubljana. That's what I'd like to say. When it comes to updating the existing regional road and changing it to a fast road, there is no need to make new accommodation in the space, DPM. There's no need, except for these three tunnels. In addition, when you talk about how long a separate route is put into space, a route was placed in the space within 18 months. I can tell you by the files, this thing is going fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u230	I'll do it again. Mr. Ambassador, when you speak of a billion 300, you are talking about the entire section from Slovenj Gradac to Šentrupert. If you hope to claim to make this road 16%, then something is really wrong with the Slovenian profession. And that is exactly what happens in our projects – everyone knows everything! Anyone who comes through can tell you what he thinks, what is the estimate of these costs. We've provided you with documents, and we've told you that they're based on the only comparable. This is a study of variants and on this basis the profession decided and established one route. Because imagine that to the end, we will lead 10 routes to the investment programme. Can you imagine how much it costs to bring every route that anyone wants to take to the final stage? Based on a study of variants that you also have in DZ, it shows that a particular route is 20 million cheaper than the one you would like. The placement in the second track did not last 18 months, but it lasted 20 years — I apologize very much. If we're going to redefine the route of the 3rd development axis today, it won't be 10 years. I think I have proposed to you a few more times, and I would like to propose to you once again, honourable Member: propose to the National Assembly the decision to stop this project, to start looking for new routes, and I will take this into account. That's all it is. If we start looking for a new route, let's call it H2, A5, I, I don't know how many, that means years and years. [[…]] Okay! If the National Assembly says, "That's right," I absolutely take that into account. Just not constantly with questions, but be concrete, suggest a decision to stop the 3rd development axis project and go again. It's the only solution, and everything else is speculation. Let's be specific about numbers, because that really bothers me. If anything, I'm good with numbers, and it really bothers me that we're talking in mind and in this way, and that way, we're deceiving people. I'm always willing to talk argumentatively and with the facts, not something like that, like, on a hike.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u231	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I just want to say that when I talk, I get ready and talk to people in the profession. I have to say, I have a lot of engineers, architects, geographers, geologists, and so on. It's interesting that this thing is being questioned. I will not make a motion for consideration at the next meeting of the National Assembly on this issue, because we will talk about it on Tuesday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u233	Mr Member, I remind you that you have misused a procedural proposal intended to make a procedural proposal, but not to continue the controversy with the Minister. It wasn't right of you, so I'm warning you. Next time you abuse this proposal, I'll turn you off and give you a warning. We're moving on. The word has magic. Mr Dejan Kaloh, who will ask a question from the Minister for Culture mag. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u234	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Mr. Poznic, you had a similar question today. My colleague Montenegro asked you in the context of the Predjam Castle. I would also like to ask you about one another’s castle – about this a little later, Mariborian. At the outset, I would focus on these security calls. I know you're preparing them in the Real Estate Cultural Heritage Sector. You're doing them. One of the current ones, which has been quite exposed to the public, especially in Maribor. In fact, I am talking about the reconstruction of Žičko dvor, the reconstruction works are carried out by the investor of the Galerija Gososka, which is owned by the current Maribor Mayor Saša Arsenović. The whole investment in this rehabilitation – I live there in the immediate vicinity and walk around Lent a lot. Otherwise, I like the fact that this object will appear in a better light than in this clairvoyant state than it is now. Thus, this value was estimated at 660 000 and the Ministry of Culture had run out of €185,000. This investor, said to be the company of the current Maribor mayor, Mr Arsenovic, was obviously successful in this call for co-financing. And now I'm kind of curious because maybe it was just a coincidence: What are the vats of the Ministry of Culture when it comes to investors, companies owned by current political actors? Just last year, when Mr Arsenović became mayor, the Ministry of Culture also approved these funds through a tender. At the same time, I am interested in a wider picture in this area. I looked at the budget, the cultural heritage protection items for 2020 and 2021. You have earmarked EUR 2 million 673,000 for each year. I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: When will the euro also be found for monumental protection facilities at our Styrian end? Now I'm at that castle when I first said I'd mention the castle of Maribor. It's been a long, long time. In 2013, the bizarreness of the invitation to tender, at which time MON, prepared a project where among the first three it was even recognized, and then again there was a mistake and these assets were never seen by the Maribor Castle. So when will the long - planned rebuilding of the Maribor castle, especially this eastern part of the building, take place? Thank you for the first part of your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u236	Your Honor! Thank you for this question. Here the problem is really very hot not only because of the quantity of everything that is waiting for us, but also because of the financial resources, about quality. I'd start like this. At the Ministry of Culture, we are deeply aware that all these funds, which are currently and will also be earmarked and envisaged for such interventions, are, of course, completely insufficient for such restaurant interventions. We must also be aware that we have actually encountered quite a few years of intense, if I say so, concerns in this area. For ten years, the crisis has been an excuse for very much inaction, so that with the financial resources available to the Ministry of Culture over the past years, we have been able to cope, if I say so, with only those – and now a little paraphrasing – only those roofs that have really moved and have done additional damage. Thus, the past era was essentially intended only to try at least at the lowest possible level to maintain what was absolutely necessary. It is not until this year that there has actually been a upward movement, but of course I must also say that we are facing a higher priority, a little greater intervention in the area of protection of cultural heritage, indeed, all together is becoming a kind of a cease-fire. That is why I am also very pleased and pleased that we in the Government have actually endorsed the proposal for a law on specific additional cultural resources, which will allow us to have a much more constructive and creative approach in the coming years to address all these pressing pressing problems. I must also say that at the Ministry of Culture we now have in preparation, in fact just before the end, a new list of all protected, if I may say so, units that are under any protection of our ministry, and I must say that there are now about 30,000. If you imagine, with all this small money, 30,000 units from castles to various tiny little plastics and so on, to chapels to all that we imagine as a cultural monument. So I hope that with this list that we are preparing now, we may reduce this number by at least one third, because there are also objects in this list that are not really there anymore and they have collapsed. Such a new law, and perhaps if we succeed, also the new priority axis that culture must get back at every cost in the next quarter of the European perspective, will enable us to do everything we really want together; it is said not only the restaurant of everything that was behind us, but also to ensure that all of these facilities, which are of great national importance, are suitable for the 21st century. All those facilities which are either privately owned or owned by the municipality, depending on the successful fulfilment of the various tenders, will then come within the scope of co-financing of the Ministry of Culture. I hope you do not think that the profession works here after any priority list, who is justified and who is not, but it is only professional decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Kaloh.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u238	The Minister's reply also raises an additional question. Now, Minister, you've actually kind of described this picture in general in the area of protection of cultural heritage, and then in the end, you came up with this kind of response that I wanted to hear. I wasn't really thinking about a priority list, I was thinking more like if you think it's a chance as a minister that a relatively unsuccessful entrepreneur has 8 million debts, then four years ago, five years ago, he buys an old building, and when he becomes mayor, he gets 188 thousand dollars from the Ministry of Culture. And that speed there, when you say that 30,000 units are to be restored from sacral buildings, castles and so on, and here it is actually immediately, there is money for the investor, and the owner of the company is, as it is said, the mayor of the second largest city. Maybe there's just some comment on that. Some financial priorities after various ends of Slovenia have somehow been stated in this first response. In any case, I would also like to ask you about the renewal of the Rotovské market, including the Rotovje, which is also a hot topic in Maribor. Every city house in the world is a representative object, even in Maribor it was a city authority, and it should have been a beautiful tourist magnet long ago, but we have such a clairvoyant image. You must have seen some city house abroad, in Gradz, say, us Styrians nearby, probably. I'm asking: When will the Maribor Rotovite finally get the image that the Styrian capital deserves? Thank you for that answer, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u240	In fact, it is very difficult to talk about specific cases. As Minister, I can only rely here on the high expertise of my colleagues from the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, who decide on all these things and priorities, but not on political relevance, if I say so; not on who likes it, but on the real priorities that we have in this field in the Republic of Slovenia. As far as Maribor is concerned in general and the protection of cultural heritage, the city of Maribor is of great importance to us. However, I must also point out that we have been hunting together with the Maribor Congregation for almost 20 years only in the event of the Maribor Library. Maribor is not only needed to rebuild the library, Maribor is not only required to arrange the rotovage, the city market, in Maribor it is also necessary to take care of the regional archive, it is necessary to take care of the Maribor gallery and so on. So we're in constant contact with the local structure, if I say so myself. I think that some procedures are finally being prepared and are already in the middle of preparation. They also showed me on my visit a few weeks ago in Maribor also models, implementation plans, plans on how to approach all of this. We have also made a promise that the Ministry of Culture will participate creatively in this, of course also with a financial contribution that will in fact allow for everything you have talked about and which also requires a profession in the field of protection of cultural heritage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u241	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The next is Mr Franz Rosec, who will raise a question to the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u242	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr. Secretary! I will start there, as I ended up on Friday at the Committee on Finance, at the amendment, on a barrier separating Lake Velenj. We know that the material produced in the production of energy in Teš is being deposited on this barrier, and this is where the disposal of material resulting from the construction of the third development axis was envisaged. Now we know that this developmental axis is a little late, and the problem is that this embankment is marred, which also causes the flooding of the city of Šostjanj and also downstream. This material shortage was replaced last year by material brought from the logistics centre in Arja village. However, in the midst of an unloving event, that land was also brought from one of the kindergartens in the congregation of Celje, is said from the kindergarten of the Devil, and it was brought in without all knowledge and without all consent. We know there's still some of this land in Cel, but it's infected with heavy metals. One such landfill of land is along the Cincarna, which was created at the time of the upgrade of the railway connection. This is a huge amount of land and is now appearing in the media to predict that this disputed land would be transformed into some building material and put down on this barrier to Velenje and Šostanim. I specifically ask the Minister: Do you know at what stage the licensee is selected? Does the selected undertaking have appropriate technical knowledge and references? What method of monitoring the performance of works do you foresee? What measures do you expect to prevent such an event, such as the import of dangerous or disputed land from one of the kindergartens in Celje? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u244	I don't think I'll be able to answer you in such detail. These oral questions are generally meant for the whole of Slovenia. We will give you a detailed answer if you ask a written question. However, I can give you some information, but for the rest I would then ask you to address a written question, and we will look closely at all the answers you wanted. According to the information available to the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the environment and space, the material from the landfill near Cinkarna Celje on the embankment between Velenjska and Družmirski jezera was not connected – although you asked for kindergarten. I don't have that information for kindergarten right now. The operator of Toming Engineering, d.o.o., was granted an environmental permit by Arsa dated 24. 4. 2018 for the introduction of ground excavations in the amount of 208 thousand 780 cubic metres, which was created in the area of the construction of the logistics centre of Arja Vas. An offence against Toming Engineering, d.o.o., was instituted due to the illegal introduction of land and stones in the amount of 2 thousand 150 tonnes taken from VOC Celje, d.o.o., and was created as a waste land in the rehabilitation of the children's playground Vrtca Tončke Čeč, the unit of the Devil in Celje and according to the assessment was not suitable for introduction into the ground. The land was aligned at the time of entry with the input of the excavation material, which was created in the construction of the Lidl Logistics Centre in Arja village. As a result of the above, it was not possible to impose the removal of the inadequate land, and criminal proceedings were introduced and carried out against Toming Engineering, d.o.o., as against VOC Celje, d.o.o. I have so much information on this case from an inspection. For others, more detailed answers, I would really like to ask you a written question.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, would you like to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u246	Thank you for some answers. I'm aware that the subject is problematic. I will also address you with a written question, with all these requests, data, and then I expect an answer in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u247	Thank you very much. We're moving on. The next question will be asked by the mag. Marko Pogačnik, Minister of Finance Andre Bertonclj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u248	Madam President, thank you for your floor. Dear Minister of Finance, I would like to ask you a question about the State Property Management Strategy. In fact, the State Asset Management Strategy was adopted in the summer of 2015. We have already opposed the adoption of the State Asset Management Strategy in the SDS Group to the fact that the Strategy is poorly written or inadequate in certain parts of the text. Shortly after the adoption, the then management of the Slovenian State Holding expressed a similar point regarding the State Property Management Strategy, that it was poorly written and inadequate. The SDH management is also expected to send a proposal to the Ministry of Finance to amend and complement the State Property Management Strategy. Dear Minister, given that it has been around for about three years, I am interested in: When will you, as Minister of Finance or Government of Marjan Šarc, send a renewed strategy on the management of state assets to the National Assembly? When you send a strategy on the management of state property, I wonder: In this strategy will the Bank Management Company, so called a bad bank, also be called a bad bank? The fact is that since the adoption of the State Property Management Strategy, the Bad Bank Act has also changed, namely, the bad bank actually gets as many management functions from year to year. Dear Minister, will you also include the DUTB in the State Property Management Strategy? The fact is, the DUTB manages ever-increasing companies has more and more shares. Last but not least, we have been able to witness in the public and the media over the last half-year or more precisely during the past month, when we heard that DUTB was supposed to be involved in the management of the tourism holding company, it was supposed to be involved in the so-called new company Adria and the latest information from around a week ago, so that the state would seriously consider the re-banking stake that would arise from the country's inclusion in the Land Bank and that the DUB would be re-enacting here. I'm also interested in: When will you send a new, complementary strategy for the management of state property to the National Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Dear Member, mag. Thank you for asking me that question first. I don't think we're talking about this for the first time. From the questions raised previously, you also believe that the country's current capital investment management strategy, which, according to you, is a type of weakness and weakness. As already explained in the written reply of 16. This year, the activities related to the preparation of the new strategy are expected to be completed in the following year, 2020, as the current strategy covers a five-year period in terms of objectives and expires in 2020. So we are talking about 2020; the strategy itself does not have a deadline and is in force until the new strategy is adopted. As you are aware, in accordance with the current SDH Strategy Act, it is also not possible to correct or just supplement the strategy, but it is necessary to replace or re-write the strategy in force. Given that the key element of the strategy is the classification of capital investments, the preparation and adoption of the strategy in this part is a very demanding process that takes its time. In this respect, the Ministry of Finance has already set up a working group preparing the basis and is expected to do so in 2020. So, in this part, a careful consideration will be needed. As far as the statement of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, DUTB is concerned, nothing changes in this part. As you know, according to the strategy, DUTB is expected to be joined by the end of 2022 at the latest.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Member, would you like an additional explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u252	Madam President, thank you for the floor. You haven't answered the essence of my question, Your Honor. It seems to me that it is very slow, because now it seems to me that both at the Ministry of Finance and at the Ministry of the Economy, you are, after all, in the Government looking for certain areas of state property management through the DUTB. DUTB is not included in the State Asset Management Strategy, at least in my behaviour, in what was adopted in 2015. Today there's a lot of talk about the DUB managing a tourist holding company. Dear Minister! You are a department minister, covering both SDH and DUTB, and you can be present at the supervisory board meetings both in SDH and in DUTB. I want to know: What's with the perimeter? Why did you decide that DUB should manage a tourist holding company? Why would DUTB manage the so-called new Adria if this happens? Last but not least, information one week ago that the state wants to create a new banking pillar with an entry, ownership stake in the Land Bank. These are statements in the media. Can you comment on that? Does it not make sense to send a revised State Asset Management Strategy to the National Assembly as soon as possible? Here it seems to me that it is indeed a circuit, and above all the government is responsible for the management of state property and this is where the tax money is ultimately concerned. I want to know one more time: Will the DUTB come under the auspices of the State Asset Management Strategy or not? Why will the tourist holding company come under the umbrella of the DUB? Do they have any indication of the establishment of a new banking pillar?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u254	We have already commented once, and the government has already decided once that there is no need, I think it was 2017, after changing the strategy. So once again, the current strategy is by the end of 2020, we are working to modernise these things to say so. But it's up to the government to decide how she's going to act in this case. But everything else is an indication. We read a lot of things in the papers, don't we? I have told you the facts that are with us at the Ministry of Finance and that I do not see any need to comment. The existing strategy is being prepared and other existing strategies under SDH are being followed by an escape process, including with regard to tourism, as you stated, and the process is being avoided. It is being prepared in the framework of SDH, confirmed by SDH, confirmed by the Supervisory Board, confirmed by the Government as the Assembly. But all the rest are statements in newspapers that I wouldn't comment on in this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u256	Madam President, I propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a public debate be held on the management of state property. Dear Minister, 3 years ago, the SDH leadership sent a number of comments to the Ministry of Finance. You as a minister have been in your position for over a year and probably the management of state property is probably one of your most important functions. For more than 3 years, a new strategy for the management of state property in the National Assembly has been announced. In the last period, however, we can see, I have the feeling that both the Government and the Ministry of Finance, deliberately, beyond the public property management strategy, are using the Bank's Claims Management Company, the so-called bad bank, to leverage the management of state assets. I mentioned a tourist holding company, I mentioned a new Adria, and as I said, and you said yourself, from the media, that the state should seriously consider a new banking pillar; a bank pillar with access to the Land Bank. The question was only a very brief, respected minister, to whom you did not answer. If you have replied that the State Property Management Strategy will come to the National Assembly only once next year, I am sure that this is essential too late. For there have been substantial changes on the market, which I believe require that the strategy for the management of state property in the National Assembly should come substantially earlier. Significantly earlier, because it does not seem fair for him to now manage the so-called three important pillars past the DUDB strategy. Therefore, Madam President, I propose that we hold a public debate at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly on the management of state property at a given time, the management of state property in the future and when the National Assembly will receive a new strategy for the management of state property.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u257	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Mr Boštjan Koražija is continuing to ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u258	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. Slovenia, as a social and solidarity state, must especially protect all those who, for various reasons, have been in an unenviable situation or at the edge of society. We never know when we can be there alone. Such protection, which complements the public aid network, are social security programmes. Most of these programmes are carried out by NGOs in public institutions. In 2018, around 160 000 users were involved in social security programmes. Madam Minister, since you have also spoken publicly about the importance and importance of these programmes for the better quality of life of individuals and their intended integration into society or assistance with them, I am interested in the following. At the Ministry of Labour, in June this year, in joint coordination, you ensured that the funding for social security programmes will finally increase by €3 million in 2020 and will be allocated to the correction of salaries. The agreement was then confirmed several times. Then, in mid-September, you simply put everyone implementing social security programmes and everyone working in these programmes ahead of the fact that promises are no longer valid and that raising funds is simply not going to happen. I have a question for you: Why is it not in the budget of these projected and promised three million? I would like to point out that the level of this earmarked resource remains below the level and prior to the crisis years. I also want to know: How will you approach addressing the unequal treatment of professionals in the field of social protection work? People working in these programs do not have free Saturdays, Sundays or public holidays, as they must be available to the user every day of the year. What's your ministry's social security strategy? Are you preparing any changes in the field of legislation or the way these social security programmes are financed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u260	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. Initially, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has been developing a network of social protection programmes for 20 years. It is a network of programmes that significantly co-create social security services and represent a complementary network of public networks. Over the years, we have complemented, expanded, upgraded the network of programmes in order to ensure as much accessibility as possible and to respond to the different needs of users. In 2018, 170 different programmes were active in the social security network, of which 122 five-year programmes with the verification of the Social Chamber, which provides high professional standards for the provision of services. In addition to the multi-annual programmes, the Ministry also co-financed 48 development programmes. These are programmes that also bring innovative working methods with users and have development potential. Social protection programme providers are both public institutions and NGOs, which are an important partner in the provision of social protection. The social security network operates in various areas where people are most vulnerable – the area of violence, homelessness, addiction, mental health and poverty, and social exclusion. Social protection programmes reach those target groups facing the most difficult forms of exclusion, i.e. older people, children, families facing a higher level of risk of poverty, people facing mental health problems, homeless people, addicts, people with disabilities. As we are aware of the importance of social protection programmes, we have been working to provide higher funding for the implementation of social protection programmes every year since 2015. In 2015, 12 million 300 were allocated, in 2016 – 13 million, in 2017 – 14 million 300, in 2018 – 14 million 700, 2019 – 15 million 200 and in 2020 the same amount of funds, i.e. 15 million. The Ministry thus strives to maintain or increase these funds each year. However, it should also be said that the social security programmes are co-financed by the Ministry at 80% and the remaining 20% must be provided by the operators themselves, most often through co-financing by local communities. This is an important complement to the national and local levels, as social security providers operate at the local level and provide assistance and users within local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Member, please, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u262	Thank you. I would also like to say that the Minister has already very well warned about this funding of 80% and 20%, which should then be provided by the operators of these social security programmes themselves. Here, in fact, there is also a problem that is difficult to obtain in these local environments of 20%, and many times we deal with these programs only by how they will acquire these funds at all, instead of engaging in professional advice or professional work or in the field or in institutions. The problem is also in this sector. For example, wages have grown since 2012 in the public and private sectors, while wages in these social security programmes have remained at the level of 2012. I have a question: Why have you kept the level of implementation and co-financing of social protection programmes 2611/11/0036 at practically the same level despite the contrary promises and arrangements with representatives of organisations? This item only increased by a good half million euros. During the adoption of the budget will you propose changes to this item? How will you solve the shortage of workers in these programmes at the Ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u264	Thank you very much. We were able to divide the volume of resources according to the budgetary options provided to the Ministry, of course, subject to the fiscal rule. However, I must stress in particular that, within these 80%, we recognise the costs of salaries and material costs. However, operators of social security programmes must prove, upon notification, that when they apply for the tender, they can provide for 20% of co-financing on their own. This difference can also be attributed to employees' salaries by operators. Currently, at the Ministry, we are also looking closely at various options to further support the social inclusion of the most vulnerable groups. We have already proposed an amendment to the Operational Programme for the Implementation of European Cohesion Policy for the period 2014-2020. Following the amendment of the operational programme, if approved by the European Commission, we will be able to call for additional funding in the coming year to enable operators to work more qualitatively with target user groups. To put it simplisticly, some resources remained on this existing operational programme 2014-2020 and we have asked the European Commission to redirect these funds and are waiting for agreement. If we get this agreement, we can provide these funds in the following year. However, another option that we are looking at is to examine the legal possibilities for the installation programmes in particular in the field of prevention and treatment of violence, such as home and safe houses, to be included in the public service network and thus to ensure the full funding of these programmes from the State budget. This means that we would no longer be social security programmes, but rather a public network. As we are aware of the need for the continued support of social security programme operators, we have decided to conclude a five-year 7-year programme implementation contract with the contractors in the future. In the future, we will endeavour to provide resources for the development and implementation of social security programmes, but I would like to reiterate that the funds reserved for the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities are more than 90% of all the funds, which unfortunately cannot be affected. Therefore, additional funding will also need to be provided in the future for the possible expansion of social security programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u266	Thank you. Although social protection programmes are legally defined as complementary to public protection services, in fact, they go to many areas for the basic and only form of assistance to users. Programmes for the homeless, daily mental health centres, the therapeutic community for the adopted and many others do not know alternatives. If they were not available, users would simply lose their support and assistance. Because I believe that the only right path that Slovenia must always take is the path of a social state, and because in this case it is particularly the weakest and most vulnerable in our society and for the benefit of around 160 000 users, and because of the risk of decommissioning today's relatively well-functioning network of social security programmes, I propose that the National Assembly at its next meeting hold a general debate on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u267	Thank you very much. We will decide on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. We're moving on. The next question will be asked by Mrs Mateja Udovč, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Jerne Pikal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u268	It is a well-known fact that the project of renovation of the roof is being prepared for the needs of the summer theatre in Križanka. The owners of the complex are the Municipality of Ljubljana and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At your ministry, the Municipality of Ljubljana is expected to agree on all ownership. The municipality is supposed to buy out the share that is in the current own country. The agreement, which is already at the conclusion stage just before signature, also sets out on accelerated activities to address the spatial problem of the Ljubljana School of Design and Photography, which currently operates in these premises. On the other hand, it is a worrying fact that the envisaged period for the expulsion of the school from Križank is already September 1st 2022. Within this period, the premises will be the absolute property of the Municipality of Ljubljana, which will exercise its ownership interest. There is a legitimate fear in the management of the school that it will not be possible to provide adequate facilities to carry out the activities of the school by that date, so a letter describing the problem has been addressed to you, but there has been no formal response. The principal of the school only received oral assurances from your secretary that the problem would eventually be solved through leases. The school management also addressed a letter to the Prime Minister at the beginning of this month, but has not received any reply so far. It is perfectly normal and responsible for the conduct of the management of the school, which wishes to receive explanations regarding the ownership of the facilities, and thus the spatial status of the school. It is the principal's duty to lead the school and provide a sound education and appropriate working conditions. However, it is the duty of the school founder to provide him with all relevant information and outcome in a timely and correct manner. This will preserve the good name of the school, which has been training in this area for 73 years. School management must respond to increasingly frequent questions about this and this issue, but there are no relevant answers. It must explain the matter to the worlds of institutions, the professional public, students, parents and all those who care for quality public education. I'm asking you: At what stage is the agreement between your Ministry and the Municipality of Ljubljana on the sale of the work of the Križanka complex, in which the premises of the Ljubljana Central School of Design and Photography are currently located? When is the sale of this part of the complex scheduled? How are you going to solve the spatial problem of high school as the founder? Have you prepared an application for the urban architectural competition? Are you planning on building a new facility for the needs of the school? Do you have the resources provided in the budget for this project? When and where are you going to move to secondary school, or how will you solve this problem in the meantime until the school is finally resettled?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u269	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u270	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course, thank you for asking. It's not an agreement. You're misinformed. It's a letter of intent. And it is true that we have been preparing for about a year now and there is no need for any drama about it. The matter takes place as well as with other municipalities and with others. Because it is not only the Central School of Design and Photography and it is not only that complex in Križanka, but it is 18 related properties where the Republic of Slovenia has, on its behalf, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, the City Municipality of Ljubljana or shared ownership or even unregulated ownership relations. Once the letter of intent has been signed, all relevant stakeholders will be informed. As for the school itself or Križanka, as you call it, it is only part of solving the whole problem. It is therefore also a letter of intent which fully resolves these relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the Municipality of Ljubljana. Later, contracts, exchange contracts, and so forth will be concluded for each property individually — but only later on, according to the letter of intent. In this comprehensive realization of this letter of intent. The spatial problem you are mentioning is serious and the school premises are largely inappropriate for the implementation of modern teaching, so this problem will be resolved once everything else is resolved by the implementation of a new school on the Roška road. For this purpose, preparations are already being prepared for the implementation of the urban competition, as the OPPPN needs to be changed and such an OPPN must be, which will allow the implementation of appropriate new construction on the one hand for the needs of the SCHOF and on the other hand the ALUO and, of course, the student home. However, the deadline for the new construction is linked to the production and realization of all the necessary stages and therefore very serious preparation of the professional bases and plans is necessary. So it will take place, when everything is so far away, in an architectural competition for the implementation of project documentation, which will then only be the basis for an accurate calculation of how much school actually costs. Once we have all this prepared, once all the procedures in the letter of intent have been accomplished, then we will go to a new building. Until then, there will be no change. You can be sure that we are the first to advocate not only quality construction, but a building that will provide quality learning, a building that will finally allow the school with a really long tradition to work even better and in even better places. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u272	Thank you so much for your answers, Minister! I just want your confirmation: Does this mean that you said that the school from Križank will not have to move out on September 1, 2022 or that it will not be sold to the congregation before the school moved to a new facility? Does this mean that you will not move to more locations or how you imagined it? At the same time, there is also a potential relationship between the school and the Ljubljana Festival, which together use spaces in the background. I hope, however, that when the final sale takes place when the sale is made, it will be transparent and economical and there will be no deviations between the estimated and the sales value provided that the sale occurs. Will it be possible to agree that the transfer of ownership will be made free of charge to the Municipality of Ljubljana? I have raised the matter so that students, parents and teachers of the school will at least receive official relevant answers to their questions, which they ask each other daily, and not by your side or by the Government. I also hope that control over the fulfilment of the letter of intent will be taken over by you, perhaps along with the management of the school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u274	Thank you very much. As I said before, with a letter of intent not to be sold, the contract is for sale, with a letter of intent is not for sale, and there will be no sale here. I already said that in the first part of the answer. As it is said, the final goal is a new object along the Roška road, there is something already there and there is planning a complex of so-called artistic not only academies, but also schools, art institutes and so on. If that's all I can do. It's just one, and I've already pointed out that it's not just that. Eighteen such locations in the Municipality of Ljubljana and it is necessary, when this letter of intent is concluded, to agree on the whole, because we are only going to the entire agreement, we will not partially solve a particular problem, because then we know that we can get into such or different scissors. That's why the letter of intent, the set. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u276	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. All guests present and respected, ministers, ministers, Minister Simon Zajc! In view of the proposal to amend the Housing Law and the measures to address the problem of under-supply of rental apartments and overpriced rents, which is a major problem for young families, I have the following question. It is noted from the proposed amendments to the law that the non-profit rent will turn into a cost, which will significantly increase the rent price. The Housing Fund is intended to act as a public hire or broker, as well as a private-owned tenant. It's a so-called Luxembourg sample. Minister, I ask you: Are you saying that this will encourage owners who have empty apartments to rent and the state will take our risk of paying or not paying rent? It is also intended to establish housing cooperatives for the construction of new housing units. All well and good, but you also have some theoretically likeable proposals that are in practice difficult to implement. In addition to the fact that rent tax and profit taxes are still on the agenda, which is likely to be the cause of the rent raise in the case of renters, you intend to limit the amount of rent, as well as the growth of market rents. I am aware that with the proposed amendments, you are following the objective of making it easier for young couples and families to get to their first home. However, Mr. Secretary, I ask because the rent tax will be higher, and you did not foresee any other incentives for lenders: Are you aware that the rent price may increase further? Is limiting the amount of rent and limiting rent growth not also a restriction on the free economic initiative? Expenditure on rent subsidy is thus calculated to total twice the annual amount as it was last year. Additional resources will also be required for the additional scope of work of the newly created public rental services. How will you provide additional funds? What does the Ministry of Finance say? How will you encourage those lessors who easily rent their rent, for example in Ljubljana, where the rent is twice the size of Maribor and Ptuj? Aren't they going to start broadcasting in black due to the limitation of the rent?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. The new housing law is now under public scrutiny. 45 days is the time for all who have any further comments, perhaps another proposal, then we will review all these comments. Those who are reasonable and appropriate will also take into account, and we will explain why not to others. The problem of housing shortages has accumulated for some time now. I agree with you that she will be difficult to save. What we're proposing in law, I think is the right way. As I have already answered one other question today, we can be legally fine, and then the performance is the one where we often get stuck. But that is why we must not be more restrained in planning ourselves and in preparing legislation ourselves. My opinion is that this measure of public employment – of course, until we get it to life, we will not know what effect it will have, but there are several apartments empty, according to our data, more than ten thousand. We target those owners who don't give up their apartments because they don't want to deal with it, or because they're too old, or because they don't have time to look for tenants, because then they can't work or worry about what it's gonna be like when the contract runs out, or if these tenants go out in what state they're going to get this apartment. So we want to answer these questions with this public service. Because for such people, this public service will be a good answer. So, you make a contract with the state for the time you agree with the Housing Fund, for the amount you agree on, of course, taking into account that you won't have to worry about finding a tenant, that you won't be in those months when the apartment's empty, rent-free, and so on. And you can make sure that you get the apartment in the same condition as you leased it, then you get it back. I think it's a good measure for people who are afraid to rent only an apartment. Until we try it in practice, we don't know. The law lays the groundwork. The law then provides the basis for the construction and establishment of cooperatives, which is also one of the solutions. But what's the main thing is that when we turn the rent, which is now non-profit, into a cost. But it's expensive – what? What's the cost? It's still really nonprofit, isn't it, because it's not profit. The current non-profit rent is therefore so low that it has not been aligned with the increase in costs since 2003. But for those who pay a higher price or non-profit after a new one, this difference will be paid by the State to those who are entitled to it. This will also be checked every year; it is said that the eligibility of this supplement will be checked, because now it was so that it was somehow hidden and was not taken into account elsewhere. We will now do this transparently, precisely because the money we give for being fairly distributed to those who really need it, because the funds are limited. With this measure, we also want to help the housing funds, both to our state and municipal funds, because, when they have the cost of rent, they will reimburse investment costs for the first time in twenty years, but they will have to be less indebted, even though we are also raising this level of debt with our proposal. But this need will be reduced because they will receive these costs back with the cost of renting; by giving the congregations another incentive. Since the State will cover the housing allowance in cases where the person or family is in public housing, that is, in municipal housing, the state will cover it. This also means that the congregations are opposed to building as many public tenants as possible. Well, it's a bunch of measures, but, like you said, when we get to the performance, we'll see how successful we'll be. However, I believe that these measures are good and that we will continue to improve them in the course of public debate and then here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u280	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for this answer. You found out, because we also find that there are many unoccupied apartments. But there are a few other contradictions in here, from which it follows that you have some good suggestions, but you have some incontrovertible things, which is clear. I also understand that the matter is still under way. In Luxembourg, in fact, they achieved effects when they gave a 50% discount or a 50% discount on the rent tax. Isn't it? And we're kind of picking them up here with the finance minister. These two things go a little against each other. Then there's another thing that can actually influence, given that you're limiting rents, and then those who have apartments don't want to give up. As a result, fewer operators or investors decide to go into construction and broadcasting, and construction can suffer little, but we all know that construction and construction are of great importance to the economic growth that we now have. I hope that these proposals will be further refined and that you will not have any counter-effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u282	We also agree on taxes – if we want to move any policy forward, then we need to know about tax measures, but of course there is always a lot of coordination in taxes. As far as the rent limits are concerned. In fact, we do not limit rents with this proposal; we limit it only to avoid the exploitation of lessors. Because, what's going on now? When the owner of the apartment realizes that the person in the apartment is in such a state that it is difficult to afford to lose the apartment — because we know how difficult it is to get to a new apartment — that once they sign the contract, each year or every few months does not unreasonablely increase the rent. So, I mentioned this promotion. The original rent you're going to set out in the contract, and we're not going to go into that. So if the apartment is renovated, new, in a good location, the rent is fixed, both agree, only this jump suddenly every year, and every few months we want to replace it precisely because the tenants later do not take advantage of the plight of the tenants. This is now in the proposal. Of course, it is also for discussion whether this is an invasion of private property – I agree with that. I think that we will also process this discussion after we have brought the law to your parliament, and then also you, which solutions we are now proposing, will remain in the law, which will not.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u283	Thank you very much. The next one is mag. Andrej Reich, who will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Brother. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u284	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. Dear Minister Alenka Bratušek! A good week ago, the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, with nine votes in favour and ten votes against – against the votes of the united opposition, left and right, led by the votes of the left and right groups of Members – stopped the passage of the Aviation Act, despite the fact that the bill was only, I stress, to create the opportunity and the basis for the possible introduction of an economic public service, if this proved necessary. Even though we all want it, it has not ensured that, in the recent collapse of our air carrier, the market will truly replace all our connections that are important to Slovenia from an economic point of view. And as a Mariborian, I am interested in: Was such a vote limited to the possibility of developing a Maribor airport? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u286	Thank you very much for the words and for the question. I was also disappointed by the Infrastructure Committee that the members of the Committee of this Act, the amendments to the Aviation Act, were not seen as an additional opportunity for intervention by the State if necessary. It is true that aviation at European Union level is very regulated. It is true that there is very little chance of assistance if the state thinks it is necessary to help. I have made it very clear that this amendment to the law gives only an opportunity that we will have to very well reconcile with the European Commission and that there is really little chance that this article in the law we have drawn up will be able to be applied. However, I made it very clear that if the law were to be adopted, this does not mean that the airline – if the country had assessed it like that – would only have been established with Brnik, we could also use the legal option for Maribor Airport. I was therefore very surprised that the parties having Members from that end voted against this option. But the National Assembly adopts laws and I believe or I expect Members who have not supported me will no longer ask what else I can do for Maribor Airport as Minister. Once again, the answer is very clear; given that it is difficult to convince the European Commission of any intervention, this law could also be used to establish a line that we would consider to be a very important country and for which the European Commission could also give us a green light from Maribor Airport. This option has been in force for 11 years at European Union level. Why, so far, no minister has proposed this, I don't know, but as you said before, the united opposition has decided that no Ljubljana or Maribor airports need such an intervention.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, perhaps? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Dr Ange Logar will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc and Minister of Justice Andreja Katič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u288	Thank you, Chairman. We have discussed this matter several times in the National Assembly, but unfortunately only in the short exchange of views with ministers, but I think we need to talk more about it. It is the construction of channel C0 through the aquifer Kleče, which gives water to 300,000 Ljubljanans and Ljubljanans and, of course, also to those who work here in Ljubljana. It's a project where everything's wrong. Everything is wrong, however, the Ministry and the government services continue to support and worship the Municipality of Ljubljana in the construction of this unworthy, inappropriate project, when the sewers drag over the aquifer of clean drinking water. Whatever document you get in your hand, it's a witness to how wrong this project is. I have here, for example, the opinion of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Nature Protection of July of this year. And I'm just going to read a few quotes so you know why this project is so horrifying. Therefore, the Slovenian Institute for Nature Protection said that it had already concluded in its opinions in 2013 and 2015 that, according to the status of the area, location and type of intervention, it was necessary to carry out an assessment of the acceptability of the intervention to nature. However, Arso did not carry out an environmental impact assessment in full, only a preliminary procedure. And yet the building permit was issued. Both in the textual and graphic parts of the project documentation at the time were not accompanied by details of the implementation of the connecting public pipeline C0, but only the route of the pipeline. And yet the building permit was issued. Minister, tell me how this is possible. Come in. The plot in question was damaged by part of the qualifying habitat that defines the Natura 2000 area, which will no longer be restored in this plot – things that are without a building permit, and the investor continues to work. Minister, I have regularly reminded you of this, even though you say that you will check that certain documents still need to be obtained to assess whether the impact assessment is being carried out, the investor City Municipality of Ljubljana is working as if nothing had happened. In view of the recent involvement of the judiciary in the implementation of this project, Judge Andrej Bedene, who has made a very biased decision in the implementation, I ask you: Are you prepared to look at this area and see what this situation is like? Are you prepared to meet those who are now trespassing on their property? Are you ready to reconsider that this is a aquifer for 300,000 people to call it a critical infrastructure? According to NATO, water protection areas are critical infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u290	In this case, we did not issue building permits, not issued by the ILO, but by the administrative unit, and not by the entire channel C0, but by the works. So far as they have enough construction facilities, they still can't complete the entire C0 channel because they don't have all the building permits yet. I agree with you back there. I think it would be the most meaningful thing to do before this starts to happen, but CPO will also do it for more options, which would be the best. That wasn't done. Construction permits have been issued and are legally binding. But for now, it's going to be different. At this point in the preliminary procedure, this is a change in the method of construction. I think within one week Arso will decide. However, they must always make a decision in accordance with the legislation, if they do not do so, then after complaints they could continue to do so. As far as landowners are concerned. Where there is no service, they cannot build there, it is clear, or if they do not have a legal building permit, they cannot build there. I don't know exactly which parcels and exactly where they have their services and where they don't have them, but I do know that our inspection regularly controls the construction process itself. Once irregularities have been identified, it will act, but it cannot build where there is no service. That's clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, are you going to say anything? No, no, no. Thank you. Mr Member, you have the floor to request that the reply be completed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u292	Thank you, Minister. Now we come to the point where the judicial branch of power joins. You said they can't build where they don't have the service. And that's where the builder can't force them into something. Yes, you can! With the opinion of the Court, namely Judge Andreja Bedene, by a provisional order. In fact, even though she knows that she herself is judging in another dispute — it is unusual that in the largest district court two disputes are precisely obtained by the same judge in this case — she misjudges the service of the land they are building through. The service is given on the east side and built on the west side. Nevertheless, the judge shall give a provisional order. Not in any way! I'll tell you what. So much so that those who defend their own land against misexecution are threatened with a fine of 5,000 euros a day. Further, it is necessary to ensure that the owner of this land withdraws all matters which prevent the construction from progressing. Look what it says again. The Service Judge did not examine the matter at all, the land currently at issue, where the Municipality of Ljubljana wants to build a pipeline, and writes, quote, “that an act or group of related practices can be classified under the legal standard of violence”, – beware, this protection of its own land, without official right – “there is no need for blood to flow and eat fists. The organisation of citizens, the establishment of physical barriers and blockades and the final physical impeding of the transition in front of moving construction machines are certainly acts of force and must be prohibited by a temporary order.” In short, the judge, although aware that he is wrong, submits to the Municipality of Ljubljana and the owner by imposing a fine of EUR 5,000 to withdraw and allow the construction of the land where MOL has no service. Now I ask you, Minister, how can a person trust in the justice system if he can't even defend his own land? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u294	Thank you. Good-bye! Besides, I don't know a specific case. The Ministry of Justice is also not involved in what the law provides for the Ministry of Environment and Space. As far as the specific proceedings are concerned, I can say that everyone has the right to appeal. That's our legal system. In this context, it can only advise that if the party disagrees with the Court’s decision to initiate appropriate proceedings at a second stage. However, I believe that those who conduct a concrete procedure, which the Ministry of Justice does not have, in other cases, because I believe that Arso is involved here, as well as probably other co-operators, and they are also concerned about the legality of the procedure, because it is from their source. As for this advice, I propose a complaint.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u296	Thank you, Chairman. That's the problem when everyone's running away. The Minister of Environment and Space says that these are former building permits; the Minister of Justice says, I do not know this matter, they have a second-degree appeal. This is true, but this is all happening in Slovenia, Ljubljana. If someone starts to build over your land on land where there is no service, comes with a bagger and then you stop it with your car, get the next day from the court, so expressly that you have to withdraw the car if not, you will pay 5,000 euros every day. In two days, the complaint does not hold back the execution, and you can only wait for the sewers to be placed across your land. Then you say, since you all have legal protection, you can defend yourself. You can't! These people can't defend themselves, so I asked the minister if he was ready to meet them. That is why I would like to discuss this here, in the National Assembly, so that, Minister, you will be very thoroughly confronted with this decision of the court, which is absolutely controversial and absolutely benevolent to the Ljubljana mayor. Look, they write down 29 million, they give him to do what he wants to do on other land without service. We have an apparently double legal state. Here we have these life cases, which I think we need to process very carefully in the National Assembly, not least as signatories to the desire or this legislative proposal for pure drinking water. But it's also the last bumper, obviously, of these people before the Ljubljana mayor pollutes the groundwater with his sewers. That is why I believe, Presidents, that we should discuss this in the National Assembly and I propose that we do so by voting on this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 22 October 2019, in the framework of the vote. Miha Kordiš will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Magi. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u298	Thank you for your word, chairman. Slovenian social policy has for a decade and a half been drawing away from the logic that someone in distress needs to be helped, bureaucratic artists, how to give up help to someone in social distress. We have a maze of records, regulations, regulations, rulebooks, and all these procedures sweeping people's fates and that's pretty ruthless. One of these milestones in the proceedings is also the issue of the consideration of assets with applicants for financial social assistance. Article 19 of the Law on the Exercise of Rights from Public Assets, in which social assistance is not justified, clearly places the assets up to 48 times the minimum income. At the same time, it also confuses the lower limit, which is absolutely too low, puts it on an inanimate 3-fold minimum income. In the case of a single person, this is a thousand 200 euros, or a maximum of two thousand 500 euros in the case of households. The Devil is here in particular in detail – between this lower limit and this upper limit, for the provision allows social assistance to be denied even if it is found somewhere in between, let's say that he has a small amount of money that is slightly over the lower limit. And here the CSD has free hands, and the searchers are left for mercy and mercy there with some bureaucratic generosity. This CSD’s powers leave Section 31 of the Social Security Benefits Act. Madam Minister, I assume that, at least at the declaration level, you agree with the view that someone in distress needs to be helped instead of being thin as a hair in the egg and taking into account any minimum amount, even if it is above the non-life minimum threshold that is allowed, and then, on the basis of this small savings amount, someone is denied the social assistance they need. Since this is exactly what is happening in practice, I am interested in: Are you, as Minister, going to draw up a directive, a circular, anything like that that is in your direct power to stop this kind of bureaucratic sanctioning of the poor on the basis of the property of small value immediately? Let me put it again; poverty is a social disgrace, people who have been in poverty have not been there for their own fault, and those who are trying to put some euro in the storehouse are doing so that they can somehow rise up out of this spiral of poverty. If they are challenged by every smallest euro saved in the allocation of social assistance to social work centres, I think this is completely wrong. At the same time, it prevents those active individuals from digging themselves out of this vicious cycle of poverty as much as they can. An urgent change of law is not necessary, only a directive from the Ministry is sufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u300	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. In order to recognise the rights of public social resources, it is necessary to establish in advance the material position of the investor, i.e. the single person or his family. This shall be determined by checking the income and property of family members. The way in which property is taken into account in the exercise of rights from public funds is determined by two laws, namely the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds and the Law on Social Protection Benefits. The law on the exercise of rights from public resources in the light of property differs between the so-called annual and the so-called "monthly rights" from public funds, since persons with the lowest income are entitled to monthly rights and annual rights are also directed at persons who are not materially at risk. Monthly allowances are cash social assistance, a security allowance, both health rights and a subsidy on rent, as income is taken into account for the last three to twelve months before the application is submitted. The annual entitlements, however, are children's allowances, state grants, reduced payment of kindergarten and school food subsidies, where income is generally taken into account under the income provision for the previous year. As assets to be taken into account in determining the material situation, the law provides for immovable property, personal and other vehicles, water vessels, equity, securities, cash in a transaction or other account and other movable property. In the case of monthly entitlements such as monetary social assistance, assets shall be taken into account by taking into account one third of the value of assets. You have already properly determined that if a single person has savings, they do not take into account the value of three minimum incomes, that is up to a thousand 206 or for a family of not more than two thousand 500 euros. In the case of annual allowances, for example in the case of a child allowance, the value of the property shall be determined and deducted from the annual allowance by the 48-fold OZMD, which currently amounts to EUR 19 000. The amount obtained shall be multiplied by an annual interest rate of 0,4 %. The value of the property obtained shall be added to the income of the family, for example, paid, and thus the total value of the income, i.e. paid plus interest on the assets, divided by twelve months and by the number of family members. The amount obtained shall be considered as the average monthly income on which the family is placed in the relevant income class. What does this mean for a four-member family that, for example, has savings of 500 000 euros? Out of 500,000, 48 times OZMD is deducted, just over 19 thousand euros, and we get 480 thousand. The amount of 480 000 is multiplied by 0.4 interest rates, amounting to 19 000 euros. If we divide this amount by twelve months, we get a thousand 600 and then we get 400 euros with four family members. Such taking into account assets, therefore, if someone has half a million savings in a current account, we, of course, consider annual rights to be an inadequate arrangement which results in the unfair sharing of social transfers. In 2020, the Ministry will draw up a proposal for a new inventory of assets, which will be more equitable in terms of the division of annual rights. If I can answer your question in concrete terms. We both agree, and I have probably proved this by my actions — taking on the most vulnerable groups. Given that we have spent 150 million on social transfers and family policy in the past year. Even when I checked how much savings are taken into account in current accounts for security supplements, there are also higher amounts. Why the difference between cash social assistance and security supplements is, I can't tell you right now, but it's legal. With the circle alone, I cannot change this, because it is a legal provision, but as we say in the spring, we are counting somewhere on us to make a change in law and asset capture in the spring – we will also try to capture these life situations. As far as discretion is concerned; indeed, social work centres or their employees have the option of deciding on the basis of a discretionary right if they find out that such social distress is concerned, they may allow the individual, despite the higher income in the current account, to receive financial social assistance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u302	Thank you. I'm going to be very lively, because over the navigation around all this bureaucratic Latvianism, and I'm an MP, I'm dealing with these things, imagine someone who's been in poverty. A specific case like this, he knocked on my door. I'm not talking about all this stuff. A man who had recently received as much financial social assistance as a social grant has been deprived of this arrangement because of his age. Since he planned to join a doctoral study, he put modest amounts aside each month and thus created a fund, a savings account, worth EUR 2 000 200. Since he had to ask again, this time only for the granting of financial social assistance, at the Centre for Social Work in Metlika they said, hop, but now we will take into account the EUR 2 000,200 you have in your account, whether we will give you financial social assistance or not. All of a sudden, a person has lost any income in his life, because Mrs Maja Brinc, assistant director of CSD Metlika, who led this process, said no, but we have decided that we will deny you not only cash social assistance but also the right to compulsory health insurance. In addition, this man has chronic health problems. Madam Minister, these are not just legal provisions. Article 31 of the Law on Social Security Benefits in its third paragraph restricts the discretion of social work centres by means of directives from the Ministry. He thus states: “The reasons set out in the first paragraph of this Article and the method for their identification and the methodology for taking account of the value referred to in paragraph 2 of the previous paragraph shall be laid down in more detail by the Minister responsible for social protection.” There is no need to amend the law, Madam Minister, you will amend your directive for social work centres or existing rules for [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u304	Thank you very much for complementing the question. As far as discretion is concerned, as I have said before, a public servant has all the power to act with it, because this is also the purpose of a discretionary right to decide from a particular case to a specific case. I don't really know the example you're talking about from CSD Metlik. I can now answer you as a lawyer; if the client had these funds in the current account and would be able to prove that they are intended for specific purposes, this is for the payment of a doctoral study or, for example, for the repair of the roof, these are the means of purpose, of course, under the discretionary right an employee could decide whether or not to recognise the right. But I don't know a specific case. We should take a look at it. I suggest you send us a case, we'll take a look at it. But discretion allows and I, as Minister, cannot interfere with it, because the purpose of discretion is precisely to allow a staff member to identify all the actual circumstances of the case, to also decide on the recognition of the monthly right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u306	Thank you. I want a debate in this National Assembly on the response of the Minister, immediately to begin at the formal level. It is true, we have legal provisions, these legal provisions allow some applicant for financial social assistance to have a saved amount of three times the minimum income. In the case of a single person, this is a thousand 200 euros, at the same time this savings amount up is limited by the also sewn 2 000 500 euros. At the same time, the ceiling is placed on a minimum income of 48 times when the value of a property is weighed. But within this lower and early frontier there is a space of freedom. This area of freedom shall be reserved exclusively by the Minister and shall be given that power by the third paragraph of Article 31 of the Social Security Benefits Act. When social work centres decide whether to grant someone the right to social assistance or not, they are the savings of such a person within the lower and upper limits, the minister is the one who tells what methodology will make things count, what will be taken into account, how it will not be taken into account. It is very simple whether the social workers will receive instructions to say to the applicants: No, but we will not give you social advice; or whether they will receive instruction: Yes, let us try to help people. The specific case I am mentioning is only the basis for this, because I do not think he is lonely and not alone. And it is precisely because, for this area of freedom, the jurisdiction is in the hands of the Ministry, that I call on the Minister to intervene and send a directive, as she is allowed by law, that with these practices of literal sanctioning, the prosecution of applicants for financial social assistance, if they have a number of savings, cease immediately. It's not even a specific case here, it's a broader system practice that serial people who are poor and have a few bronzes in the brush put themselves in a life-threatening situation where they can find themselves in a situation where they can't survive anymore because they suddenly lose everything. The specific case that I have mentioned is precisely the practice of this. The man has no car, no apartment, no house, nothing at all, only a parched 2 000 euros, which he has been splattering for several years, so that with this money he can sign up for a doctoral study and, hopefully, dig himself out of his situation somewhere on the social side. And then Mrs Maja Brinc said to him at CSD, "No, we're not going to give you money for social assistance, we're going to penalize you, because you've got 2,000 euros of crazy people you've managed to put aside with a hard denial so you can get an education." I think it's a topic worth discussing in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 22 October 2019, in the framework of the votes. Ivan Hršak will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertonclj, and the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Mags. Xenia Clampfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u308	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, Your Honor! Due to the non-coordination or reduced regular coordination of pensions during the period of the economic and financial crisis between 2010 and 2016, pensioners were reduced by as much as 8.4%. In order to remedy this deprivation, Desus wanted to help pensioners in the past mandate by proposing a legal solution to the gradual additional extraordinary coordination of pensions until the so-called deficit was corrected. Our proposal was that in addition to regular coordination, pensions should be further coordinated in four years so that missing percentages can be compensated in these years. Taking into account in the Law on the Implementation of Budgets, the agreed harmonisation for 2018 would have remained 7.2% unrealised, which would have been implemented or returned by the end of 2022, according to our proposal at that time. Of course, the implementation of exceptional coordination due to deprivation was not conditional, as envisaged now under the coalition contract. In this December, the reconciliation of pensions will be carried out. This will leave an unrealised share in the harmonisation of 5,6 %. According to the new Umarje autumn forecast, which foresees only 2.8% of GDP growth for 2019 – the initial forecast was 3.4% and the first draft budget for the next two years has also been adjusted – and it shows that, given the conditional GDP growth to 3% in the 2020 Coalition Treaty, there will be no extraordinary pension coordination; unless this condition is reduced, as proposed by Desus. In my opinion, the return of this deprivation, linked to economic growth, is unacceptable. For example, it is not comparable to the public sector, since what they negotiated in the public sector was by no means linked to the rate of economic growth. This is also the view of pensioners themselves, and they feel justified as second-rate citizens. I would also like to point out that, although favourable economic growth was recorded in 2014, which continued even in all the following years, we have actually begun to make up for the extraordinary coordination of past years' losses only last year. Dear Minister and Minister, I ask you: Are they going to advocate for an older population that could suffer in the crisis and somehow bear the burden of lower pensions in the hope of receiving refunds in the event of economic growth; so that the recovery of deprivation will no longer be conditioned by economic growth as otherwise provided for in the Coalition Treaty? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u310	Thank you so much for saying that, and thank you for asking. With regard to the said question, I would like to make it clear, in the introduction, that at the Ministry, we are constantly committed to ensuring the social and material security of all categories of pensioners, as well as to eliminating austerity measures in connection with the coordination of pensions. I agree that the coordination of pensions is a fundamental instrument that preserves the real value of pensions over a longer period of time; this ensures social and material security for pensioners. It is also clear to me that savings in this area have reduced confidence in the pension system and the social state due to repeated interventions into the coordination system a few years ago. On the basis of this, I believe that, in the case of additional financial resources available and the justification for their consumption, it makes sense that further coordination with a view to reducing the negative effects of the austerity measures continues to be ensured by harmonisations which have been quite extraordinary in recent years. In addition to regular harmonisation in recent years, pensions have been highly coordinated, namely 0.4 in 2016 and 1.1 in 2018. Also in this year, in addition to the regular harmonisation already carried out at the end of the year, an appropriate exceptional harmonisation of 1.5 % is envisaged. In the context of the challenge of ensuring a decent pension for all as compensation for non-coordination of pensions during the economic crisis, the Coalition Agreement provides for an additional emergency coordination of pensions linked to economic growth. With economic growth more than 3%, pensions are expected to be coordinated by 1%, with 4% growth by 1.5 and 5% economic growth by 2%. Let me stress that the lowest amount of the pension guaranteed, which will amount to 557,37 euros after the extraordinary and January regular reconciliation of pensions, is also harmonised. Finally, however, I would like to point out that the harmonisation of pensions on the other hand also has a significant impact on the long-term state of pension expenditure and on the sustainability of the overall pension system. In view of the fact that, for example, the exceptional harmonisation of pensions of 1% amounts to approximately 50 million additional funding from the State budget at annual level, the implementation of all measures should also take into account the public financial capacity of the Republic of Slovenia and the pension system itself. In addition, Slovenia is committed to respect for the constitutional provision in the fiscal rule and therefore does not exceed the expenditure set out in the financial framework adopted for the pension fund. The law on the implementation of the budget has already been adopted in the Government, unanimously adopted, meaning that with the consent of all ministers. However, the law itself on the implementation of the budget is now in your possession, in your house, in the legislative process and any changes that may be made are in your hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word with me? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u312	Your Honor! In fact, I can only say that I agree with the Minister, which she said. She gave a very substantive explanation. It cited the reasons or harmonisations that have taken place in recent years, regular and extraordinary coordination. The question raised is not even as much for us as it is for the government. Let me say that in this case – this is an individual article of the law on the implementation of the budget – all the ministers and ministers present at the government then unanimously confirmed this law and put it into parliamentary procedure. Now you have the law. In fact, it is the right question to address you, honourable Members and Members. In view of the developments, however, I expect that 46 votes will be needed in order for this to be accepted. So the real address is your colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u314	Thanks for the answers. I am concerned that as long as there is an extraordinary alignment to one level of economic growth, at a certain percentage; and as experts now predict that the economy is cooling down, let us say, theoretically, ten years will not be as economic growth as will be recorded. Does this mean that pensioners will not get what they lost ten years ago. That's the problem, and I think we're gonna have to do this further. I will do my best, and I believe that the Desus Group, too, will make this mode of extraordinary coordination as I said it will no longer be bound to economic growth, because it is unfair to pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to give you an answer? No, no, no. I suggest we move on. Boris Doblekar will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenki Bratušek and Minister of Public Administration Rudi Medvedo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u316	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all, Members, Members of Parliament, distinguished ministers! The question will be addressed to the Minister of Public Administration. However, if the Minister of Infrastructure wants to add something, but also nothing wrong, I do not want time to split in half and the Minister to say that she is not too responsible for these matters. I will ask the Minister of Public Administration, as well as the Minister: How is it currently with the construction of a broadband network across Slovenia? What's the cover? We know that today’s fast Internet is an emergency, as important as plumbing or electricity. It's such an emergency. It's pretty clear that there's a covered area somewhere, sometimes there's no covered ground. The business interest of Telekom, who carries out these constructions, is of little interest to them at some point. Then there was the Rune project, and we talked about it a lot years ago, and now there's not much to hear about it. Is there something going on with the Rune project, or is this network being built in the countryside? What's the cover? Which of the operators builds these networks the most? We know that some private companies are also building these networks. What about the service involved in the construction of these networks in connection with cable laying? Then I want to know: Since fast Internet, broadband is so urgent today and is in the public interest and also in the interest of the congregations of all congregations, why should congregations charge the service to Telekom to build this network? A number of congregations have turned to me, including individuals. It is already difficult to get this network because of business interest, and then municipalities have to charge the service if the network is going through their area, usually by local roads and so on. I want to know: Do they need to charge this service urgently or not? I'd like a clear, precise answer. And also on those questions that I have already raised on the question of parliament, from the Rune project, coverage and service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u318	Your Honor! The strategic plan adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2016 foresees that by 2020 96 per cent of households will have broadband access to the Internet at a rate of at least 100 megabits per second. This strategic plan has been extremely optimistic and will, of course, not be implemented by 2020. Also because the last tender, named GOŠO 3, prepared by the Ministry of Public Administration in the previous term, ended last year due to a lack of interest. The Ministry of Public Administration in the new composition faced a problem when it was necessary to put it all together completely new. It was necessary to redefine the so-called areas of white foxes and additionally the market interest of operators. This is what we have done this year, so we now have practically everything ready for a new call. The call will be published no later than December this year and the planned deadline for the implementation of the projects shall be 36 months. It should be said that, based on the analysis of the retesting of market interest, we have also prepared a final review of the situation of white foxes of 32 thousand 122 households in the territory of Slovenia who do not have access to broadband infrastructure of the next generation. And on these white foxes, we will co-finance the construction of broadband infrastructure with cohesion policy funds of €29.5 million by the Ministry of Public Administration; and the European Rural Development Fund of €8 million managed by the Ministry of Agriculture. As far as market interest is concerned. Operators expressed interest in building 250 000 connections for 250,000 households, of which Rune Fund itself 220 000. How's the project going? Clearly, after 18 November this year, this three-year period, when commercial stakeholders have to meet their obligations under the contracts, will expire and it will then be seen how much is now here where operators have expressed this market interest. And we know that there are examples of areas where operators of market interest have not actually done so. The penalties for non-compliance with contractual obligations are quite high under the Electronic Communications Act and between 40,000 and 400 000 euros there. As far as service is concerned. The service is very precisely defined in the Law on Electronic Communications, there are no uncertainties here. The law clearly stipulates that on so-called grey foxes where a network of market interest is being built there, the service is simply remunerated, in any event. The municipality of operators cannot forgive the payment of the service because it would be State aid. We had a recent meeting on this subject with the representatives of the Rune Fund, and I think representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Public Administration were also present. There were various possibilities for regulating this area of service, but the matter is perfectly clear on the legal side. The municipalities of the service must practically charge, even if only partially charged, and this is also the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which would be partial state aid [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u319	Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u320	It's been five minutes. The answers, of course, were quite interesting, quite clear in this part, as I could hear. What you, Minister, have concluded in your service that this would then be state aid if the congregation of Telekom did not charge the service, if I understood correctly. I would be very happy if this could be done if the law allowed it, for nothing would be wrong if it were State aid. That's one. Second, in the case of large congregations along the surface, for example, the municipality of Lithium or the municipality of Šmartno pri Lithija, because the village is practically the largest part of the congregation and where these houses are located in all possible villages, there is a need to pay a lot for such service, where Telekom has already shown interest. However, we know that the congregations are budgeted, especially because of the low headship, but now I will not go to this area. As far as Project Rune is concerned. There was a lot about this talk, there was a lot of hope, there were a lot of citizens, there was a lot of expectations about citizens. Mr Medved, you are also from this end of the house and you know how many congregations there are; in Lithuania there are about a thousand 909 in Šmartna, for example, 821, in the entire Stone-Lithuanian consortium there are 24 thousand 954. These are pretty big numbers, and I really don't know when this is gonna be covered. I believe Telekom is working hard and hasty with construction, but people are expecting fast internet 100Mb/s today, they need it: e-health, e-government, e-purchase and so on. I believe that you are trying, and I also hope that we will be successful with this invitation to tender to GOŠO, which will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u321	You're out of time. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete your answer, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u322	Thank you. As it is said, because it is a commercial interest – and I know that operators are much more likely to pay off this service, even when they are in relation to natural persons, they are sometimes very unfavourable if natural persons even express their interest in paying for this service. Although the law provides very precisely what the contract must contain, and it is also necessary to define this service very precisely in the contract. As far as I know, I myself have been in quite a lot of contact with the people who have been preparing this project under the Rune Fund. As far as I know, this project is well-run, it is hard for specific congregations to think in concrete terms of how far they are, but things are running. I think that operators, where there is a market interest, are also trying, because it is also in their interest. Services are not paid in white fox areas, but this is where you will now go to this call from the Ministry of Public Administration and, on the other hand, from the Ministry of Agriculture, because this is a white fox where public interest is, not a market interest. And that's not where the service is paid. I think that operators will have to accept this fact that services exist as marital matter. It is true, however, that, especially when it comes to private individuals, individuals, they can also agree, if there is such an interest on the other hand, that there is no such service. However, I am talking about public-private relations, and in any case, the congregations must charge this service if we are to speak of gray foxes.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u324	Thank you very much, Minister. I got some answers, of course. The topic seems very broad and very problematic to me, as also the public invitation to co-finance the construction of open broadband networks (GOŠO) did not go through, which I find rather disturbing. For the Rune project (Rural Network Project), which was launched by the European Fund for Strategic Investments, you say that by 18 November the data will somehow be known where it is and where this business interest is not. When the congregations presented this matter to the public, it was said that it would go a little faster. But as far as the services themselves are concerned, I would also like to see this debate open up a little bit, which is why, of course, I also propose that a broader discussion be held at the next meeting on the subject of coverage and the construction of broadband networks. Also from this point of view – because by 2020, when 96% of the area covered by this high-speed broadband internet was supposed to be covered, you said that this would not go through – it would not be bad to open a broader debate on this. As far as the ministry is concerned, even with the services we both have touched, many times the problem or people turn to us, for example, many have turned to me because Telekom does not pay them compensation. They say that this compensation is not even covered in the contract for the establishment of the network. I don't know whether that's true or not, but there's a lot to hear, and there's also a lot of writing in different forums that there are some problems with this service, as far as private land is concerned, that Telekom, if only possible, avoids paying for his service. However, in the municipalities, as I mentioned earlier, larger municipalities are due to a poor budget, given that Telekom is a public company and this is all in the public interest, the opinion that they should not charge the service, which would be very welcome. I therefore propose that we hold a broad debate on this subject; I hope that the members of the coalition will also support this.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 22 October 2019, in the framework of the votes. Franz Breznik will ask the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Jerne Pical. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u326	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your word. I will continue with the public interest, that is the word most often heard in this Chamber. We are talking about that part of public education when it comes to adapting a school that is owned by the founder of the local community, the state; or at school also sports facilities. I've been through this week how these things were financed. I must admit that in the first years of independence we have collected the so-called school toll, until the crisis we have somehow built, adapted quite a few schools, gyms, school facilities, and after the crisis almost nothing or counted it into the fingers of one hand. As regards sports facilities, some EUR 3.3 million was realized in the 2019 budget. You could say it's the number of a good gym. 3 million €600,000 is the draft budget for 2020. A country, a local community, if they can participate in the Sports Foundation, where it is dedicated, if they win a call, of course, about €2.4 million. I am now asking the Minister how to adapt: What is participation and what is the policy in adapting certain primary schools? We know we have a whole range of high schools that are statically questionable. We have a whole series of elementary schools, such as the example of the school where I went, this is the elementary school in Lenart, which has been since 1985, when I left it, in the same image, the rooms are in the same image, they are preserved, they care for them, but the pressures are incredibly great. In Lenart, for example, we have an old elementary school that was built in 1909, which is 110 years ago, with completely different standards, regulations that were then in force in Austro-Hungarian. There he attends the first and second classes, and twice to three times a day these children drive more than a kilometer to a slightly newer elementary school where they have a compulsory lunch and lunch. We've done in the local community, you could say, impossible. We tried to moderate traffic, and we also looked out for teachers and teachers who are working hard for the safety of children; not to explain that these children are driving at minus 15 every winter for lunch and lunch and then, of course, back again. That's why I'm asking you: What is your policy, will you perhaps finance adaptations or new construction of primary schools in the following year or in 2021? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u328	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, and of course thank you for this question. When we had a special session of the committee in Parliament some three weeks ago, I said that we are the worst in co-financing the municipalities because we are talking about this. The worst in this respect is what we finance or co-finance from the budget in this school work. We've had one almost ten-year hole in here. Since 2011, we have not had an invitation to co-finance municipalities as regards primary schools and kindergartens. For the first time in the 2020 budget, almost after a decade, we allocate 5 million and then another 5 million in 2021. I agree with those who say that 5 million is far from enough, but it's a start. We are very likely to make a two-year call, where, of course, there will be co-financing of municipalities for both, i.e. primary schools and kindergartens. This won't solve, there's no way that this will solve this ten-year problem that we have. At this point, however, I would like to commend the congregations, as you yourself said, which, at a time when the state budget failed to finance or co-finance the municipalities' investment, have done a great deal. So the municipalities themselves, because when I go to Slovenia, if anything, every municipality really tries to have traffic around it. And if anything, then I think the people and the municipal administration appreciate it very much, so my thanks go to the congregations in this city. As far as sports facilities are concerned, the numbers you're giving are correct. We always said we should start at 4 million. The largest number so far has been 6 million per year for the co-financing of sports facilities in 2011. Again, this is far from enough because the need has arisen in this interim period; I think we have a study from 2016 that described the state of 2016, and if we only take into account all the wishes without limitation of anything, then these needs are for 600 million. I've already said that in Parliament. Best of all, they came through the so-called multi-purpose sports facilities that are at school. In the morning they are used for school gyms and afternoons for recreational sports, whatever. But the worst part is we're actually going to the pools. We would need at least three regional swimming pools than sports infrastructure, we would also need an ice room, we would need a little more special facilities, which, of course, cost much more. Of course, I will put any money that we will spend on this immediately on the call, because this is the only way to get to the end user. As for this year's reading of projects, if I recall correctly, about sports halls, about co-financing, I think there were three projects this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u330	Of course I understand you, but I don't understand, we have 2 billion more in the budget. Before, my colleagues said it wasn't for the pensioners, they were deprived. On the other hand, a colleague spoke about the Internet earlier. We have a state-owned company called Telekom, which should pursue the public interest that any poor or young people who want to stay in the countryside should have access to the broadband internet. Nothing. We're talking about some serious infrastructure projects. We don't actually have anything open. Where are some more, say, fast railways made by Switzerland, Austria mass. We do not participate in European funds, we do not negotiate for some new, serious programmes. There's a problem. And now I'm getting to the point in public. Why public education, then tell me. What for? What's the point of public education if we don't have the money, not even for one Lenart school, which has remained the same since 1982 to drive children at minus 15. They are now six years old, one even less than six years old when they enter the first grade. You drive them for a minus 15 kilometers to go to lunch with those kids. Three times you cross the walkway. That's the problem I'm talking about. He used to talk about culture. Why don't we give these castles a public invitation and give them to rich people? Why we take money from serious culturers who deal with cultural content, and we throw it into a wall, which is unnecessary; at least for some things. Minister, what can I say? So once again, I was wondering if you could tell me a little bit about this: How much would you like to participate with your ministry, say some local community, where there's a project? Let's say for the cheapest school adaptation, at least to meet minimum standards, about 1 million euros or a million and a half euros. How much can one local community expect after 30, 35 years to get maybe 100,000 euros in participation in one such project? Thank you very much for the answer again.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u332	Thank you very much. That's what the Minister of Finance says several times. Unfortunately, the structure of the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is such that more than 90% of all money is actually transferred to public institutions, according to domestic wages. And I think it's over 90%. When you count that down, then you see that for infrastructure, material costs and so on the battles remain few. What are we doing? We have watched a lot, watched and, of course, engaged or tried, as far as public-private partnerships are concerned, where possible. With energy rescues and so on, we are trying with a public-private partnership. Also with the Ministry of Infrastructure, as far as energy rehabilitation is concerned. All of this is done in order, of course, to make that money, if any, or the little thing that it did, to co-finance the congregations. I hope that in 2020 and 2021 we will change the budget so that we can go further towards increasing investment. Unfortunately, I can say that I spent one month in the budget in the summer – but to be honest, more than 5 million in 2020 and more than 5 million in 2021, given the cut that the Ministry received and all the obligations it has with regard to transfers of public institutions, cannot be committed at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u334	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would make very good use of it, but sometimes I do not use the rules of procedure to hold a public debate. I think the problem is not just Lenart, the problem is elsewhere in Slovenia, there are also secondary schools. Having 2 billion more in the budget to say that it is all about wages. I ask a healthy farm of intelligence, in times of the world's greatest technological changes, where, for the most part, at lower levels of decision-making, artificial intelligence, where certain jobs are being completely abolished, we have been employing some five years in the public sector – now the current number 174 thousand people. You think this is the normal number for Slovenia and we can do it. How artificially employed people are at this point, I'm just wondering. How many people go to work, how many institutions we don't need, how many NGOs that this society doesn't need, that don't have any positive impact on this society in any field? What's the parastatal sector? There's this problem where there's no money left. And here's the government fight that this society needs. I think that education is an extremely important segment of society. A small nation can only have knowledge, only knowledge, abilities, innovations keep us above water for a long time, so that we can also finance what we have set for ourselves. This is some serious social state that takes care of its people. But what we do is not a social state. This is a typical example of a socialist state. That's what I always say. The social state is Austria, the social state is Germany, the social state is Switzerland, all around us is a social state. The social state is Austria, where my neighbour, who has completed primary school and worked 35 years in Austria, has a thousand EUR 400 pension. It's a social state. His colleague, who worked here in difficult situations, may have a pension of 500 euros. This is now this difference because money is running out of budget on things that are not needed by this society. And I think that education is at least basic infrastructure, at least that these six-, seven-year-olds do not have to walk more than a kilometer in winter to go to lunch, neglecting that you have adopted standards and standards that are extremely high; that the ministry that I now cover, that is, agriculture, especially safe food, has adopted regulations concerning HACCP in the kitchen. These people wait two and a half hours to get a meal because it's so crowded because it's such a small dining room, it's not enough for any standards anymore. That's why I'm kind of appealing. I'm asking for your help. With my question, I would also like to help other colleagues and colleagues to hold a final debate to help you, Mr Minister, that we may open our eyes to the finance minister, to tell him that there are things that are more important than those that are less important. And for the sake of that question, I will take advantage of it and request a debate. Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 22 October 2019, in the framework of the votes. Natasa Sukic will ask the Minister of the Interior Boštjan Poklukar, who is absent. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u336	Thank you very much, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister in absentia! We've been running a marathon around the same question for a while. I hope you're not so tired and your absence means you're resting a little. But we're not the only ones running this marathon. We have been asking the same question since the end of 2015 in Levica, namely how much the hysteria that the country is causing at the border costs. We ask and ask, but to this day there is no concrete answer and there is no. Non-governmental organizations and the media are even suing the courts to get this information. The Ministry of the Interior, the Department of Commerce Reserves and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall disclose any information or answers to specific questions as the devil of the Cross, if I speak a little figuratively. In fact, I think it is high time that you answer these questions, even though the purchase, maintenance and installation of wires and panel fences are accumulating suspicions of corruption, suspicion of clientism, order over the law and could also list. And the arguments that these disclosures would in any way endanger national security are absurd. Hiding this data somehow indicates that everything is not all right; and it is really time for answers. Disclosure after almost four years cannot in any way endanger national security. And so again, I ask you very specifically: How much did the country spend on purchasing cutting wire and panel fences in the years 2015 to date? How much did the country spend in 2015 to date on the construction of cutting wire and panel fences? How much did the country spend in the years 2015 to date to maintain cutting wire and panel fences? How many of these went through public contracts in the hands of private individuals? How much did the country spend on joint and mixed patrols between 2015 and today? How much of this was paid, how much for supplements, and how much for other expenses? What is the effect of these joint mixed patrols? Or if I express myself after Grims and ask how much money is involved in receiving one individual who illegally crosses the border. What are the costs of purchasing technical equipment to control the state border? I'm talking drones, video surveillance, facial recognition and so on. How much money is available for the purchase, installation and maintenance of wire, for mixed and shared patrols and for the purchase of new border control equipment for 2020 and 2021? And please don't tell me this time what the key tasks of the police are, how the security situation is changed, what the pressure is on the border; just the specific numbers please, otherwise we will continue this marathon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil will ask the Minister of Infrastructure mags a question. Alenka Bratušek and Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u338	Mr Vice President, thank you very much. Minister and Minister, good evening! I am aware, however, that there is probably someone else who knows that electricity will be one of the key sources of our future on a global scale. We acquire it in different ways, some more sustainable than others, but it is one of the key sources for achieving electricity in us still some. When mentioning nuclear energy, the world and the Slovenian public often think of the Chernobyl and Fukushima accident or the possible consequences of such a nuclear power plant. In Slovenia there is one, as is said, the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. Nuclear waste and its dangerous or safe storage, however you wish, are somehow causing the most fear and dilemma. Slovenia, as the world's smallest nuclear state, is, of course, creating a certain amount of nuclear waste that must be taken care of by itself. And I want to know: How is nuclear waste stored in Slovenia? Where are these warehouses? Are they also suitable for high radioactive waste? How is security, which I believe is crucial, within the framework of access and also within the framework of environmental protection? Are there any new warehouses planned? The Resolution on the national programme for the management of radioactive waste and spent fuel for the period 2016-2025 is also in force. I want to know: Are these radioactive wastes treated in accordance with this resolution? Do you have any improvements or opportunities in this area in your ministry? In the light of the recent dispute over the landfill of nuclear waste between Slovenia and Croatia and between Bosnia and Herzegovina, I would like information: How does this project also show? Is it still possible to agree on a common landfill between countries? Will each country have to take care of its own landfills? Where will this dump be if there is no deal because the hands are leaking? In the end, I'd like to get some more information: How will we provide this electricity in Slovenia in the future? What are the activities and strategies of both ministries in this area for some sustainable generation of electricity? And what are the goals for the next ten years? Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Who's going to answer? Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. It is true that about a third of the electricity is obtained today from Naka or, as we call it, from the nuclear power plant in Krskem, but we are walking in a good order. For the time being, all the wastes produced in Nek are also stored, if we can give quotations, in Nek. It is true that one part of this waste is going to be incinerated in Sweden, but in a slightly more reduced form it returns and is back in the facilities within the Krško nuclear power plant. Other wastes, mainly medical wastes, are stored in a reactor centre in Podgorica. I can say that it is in line with the resolution you mentioned, but with regard to improvements – not if we have them by accident, but if we have to have them. There are two state spatial plans at the reception. One is to store this spent nuclear fuel, it's a dry warehouse. The State Spatial Plan is now being prepared, adopted, together with the congregation. This facility will also be within the Krško nuclear power plant area, of course if a state spatial plan is adopted and all permits are obtained. The second is a warehouse for low and medium radioactive waste, which is to be built in Vrbina. These are two things that will solve in the long term the problem of nuclear waste that arises in our country. What about landfilling or related to Croatia? I will say no, that there is now a conflict; but now we have managed to come one big step forward, that is, at this point we have found that an agreement with Croatia is not possible, that Slovenia can go into this construction on its own in accordance with the international contract. Of course, there are still open doors for agreement with Croatia, but only for waste generated in the Republic of Slovenia. As far as long-term electricity generation is concerned, however, I have repeatedly said that we absolutely support – I think I can say on behalf of the government – to provide as much electricity as possible in the future with alternative or renewable energy sources. But we must be realistic in setting these goals. Two key documents are here, one is the NEPN, which will be prepared by the end of the year and adopted as soon as possible in the following year. The second document, however, is the Energy Concept of Slovenia, which will define in the long term what are the sources that will continue to ensure our country's energy independence and provide electricity at the best possible price, because I believe that these are our two key objectives. In short, electricity is at the lowest possible cost not to talk about economic eligibility and as much independence as possible of our country; aware that we need to say how we will provide electricity from as many renewable sources as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like to join us? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u342	Thank you. I'm going to be very brief because the Minister gave a very good answer, because energy belongs to her ministry. Maybe only in the part where she was talking about the state space plan for storage. Of course, neighbouring countries are always interested in the adoption and decommissioning of these State spatial plans. And in this case it is. All four countries have requested a public decomposition, so that in Austria, Italy, Hungary and Croatia this decomposition will take place; we know what some of these countries' views on nuclear energy are.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Thank you for your answers, as perfect as possible. I might still be asking if you, Minister, could give me a little more insight into what that security of access is like. Is it physical security, or video surveillance, or both? However, I would ask the Minister to tell me about the environmental impact or environmental impact on these wastes. Since we were talking about the so-called dispute, obviously there are many things that cannot be agreed with Croatia, not just that. However, I hope that we will do as much right as we can to come up with a solution that will primarily benefit Slovenia, only to someone else. I agree, however, that these wastes must be taken care of so that they are properly and properly classified and stored for as long as necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u346	Since I said earlier that all the nuclear waste generated in the Krško nuclear power plant is now there, it is protected as well as the Krško nuclear power plant, it is said very well physically and everything is also under multiple video surveillance. I think that the European Agency is also implementing within the nuclear power plant, because there are rules and a protocol, a certain video surveillance. I am almost certain that for protection, but not only waste, but mainly the Krško nuclear power plant is taken care of as it should be.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u348	Yes, as with other facilities where environmental impact assessments are to be made, such an assessment shall also be made for a landfill of low and medium-sized radioactive waste. This procedure shall then assess all possible impacts on the environment, possible impacts on water and whether these impacts are acceptable under certain conditions, such restrictive measures as are necessary and so on. So, just like elsewhere, we are assessing all possible environmental impacts that might arise at such a facility.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Koprivc will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u350	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, for your word. Dear Minister! Days ago, the Ministry of Environment and Space presented a proposal for a new Housing Law, which addresses key problems in housing issues. It also covers issues related to the accessibility of housing for the most vulnerable groups. The proposal provides, inter alia, for a change in non-profit rents to higher cost rents. It is true, however, that at the same time it also provides for a housing allowance. In this regard, I would like to ask you, Your Honor, How is it with the existing tenants, will the already existing tenants be affected by the rent or will they remain at the same level as before? We must say that, after this envisaged proposal, the new law should not enter into force until 2021. Since this so-called rent raises from a non-profit rent, is it likely to raise more funds? Have you made any specific projections, or is the fund of these rental apartments also intended to be increased in this regard? Are there any purely specific projections of how many new apartments would be provided in this way? As we are aware, this issue of housing policy is indeed one of the most pressing issues. Because in the Republic of Slovenia there is a huge shortage of housing, and I welcome in any way the change in this roofing law, but I am interested in the specific numbers and solutions provided by the law itself. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u352	Thank you for asking. The rent will change. The current non-profits will become expensive, but here we need to be clear. The cost rent is also non-profit. With the cost of renting, the Housing Fund covers its costs and is not profitable in this case. Current non-profit rents are low because they have not been indexed since 2003, so they have not adjusted to the costs. For those users who are entitled to the current non-profit and then to the housing allowance, nothing will change. In fact, this new methodology will still increase the number of beneficiaries, as we take into account 40% of the income found in addition to the minimum income; now it is 30. This round of housing allowance beneficiaries will increase slightly. But every year it will also be checked if these people are still entitled to this supplement. This supplement will also be considered as a social transfer, which until now has not been or has been somehow a hidden transfer. For the individual himself, nothing will change, of course he will pay the cost of rent, but the difference between the present and the new cost will be borne by the State. This is important for a number of reasons. It is important because we want to increase the housing fund. And if this fund is to be increased, housing funds must receive and charge such rents to cover their costs to make it easier to repay loans. And because they will be able to reimburse investment costs in 20 years compared to 40 years now, they will be able to rebuild more and more quickly. In addition, we will stimulate the congregations to build more rental apartments because they will be paid for, since those housing supplements that they will pay to those who rent in private homes will have to be covered up by congregations. But those people who will rent apartments in public apartments will be covered by the state. Thus, even if a person rents an apartment in a municipality, he will cover the state’s apartment allowance, which means that it will be stimulating for the municipality to build as many apartments as possible and thus dispose of the cost of this supplement. The cumulative success of this is that the municipality has less cost for supplements, at the same time we have more rental apartments as well as municipal apartments and there is some win-win situation. But as I said, the number of beneficiaries will increase slightly, and nothing will change for an individual. However, we have a goal – the State Housing Fund aims to have 10,000 dwellings in its fund by 2025, i.e. those that it has already built and will build, as well as individual rents, while also introducing public employment. We don't know how this public employment is going to work, but I think it has good potential to live well. This public rental service will activate those private apartments that today remain undelivered because of some fear of owners or because they may be older and do not have enough energy or knowledge to give up such an apartment. In this case, however, this will be much easier, since this apartment will be given to the State and guaranteed a permanent lease for this period for which they will agree. The Housing Fund will take this concern to get the tenant to pay the rent when this lease expires, to get out of this apartment and then to return the apartment to the owner in its original condition, which is also one of the owners' fears, which will then get the apartment back. These concerns are now taken over by the Housing Fund. We are counting on putting on the market in this way an additional number of dwellings that are now empty and have the potential to turn themselves in.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u354	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you very much, Minister, for that answer. I come from local politics, specifically from Ljubljana, I am a member of the City Council in Ljubljana. Many times we talk about the fact that local housing funds are often too burdensome, so from this point of view I am pleased that housing funds will in some way be burdened and in some ways also indirectly allow for an increase in the indebtedness of these funds. At the same time, however, it is important that you ensure that this cost does not fall on the users themselves. There's something else I'm worried about here. I am concerned that in the coming days we will be adopting budgets for the next two years; and unfortunately in these budgets I have not seen any additional funds provided for this so-called subsidy or supplement. The law itself does not make any real sense without financial support. Here I would appeal to the fact that he is really trying to find funds for this area. I think we are very far behind in Slovenia on housing policy or on providing affordable housing. For all, this should be a priority; we have written this as a priority in the coalition contract in the end; and we would have reached 0.4% of GDP for housing policy by the end of the mandate. We are still very far away, and I hope that in some way we will find common will, we will provide more resources for this area, because, as we say, the law itself will not solve the problem. However, I believe that he is addressing this law with the right questions, and I also hope that it will begin to come true as soon as possible and that this area will somehow be resolved or found the right solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u356	Yeah, it's true. We have entered 0.4% into the coalition contract, and this commitment seems very important to me, and it will also be one of those very positive when it is realized for all Slovenians. Why is this not evident in the current budget documents? It is noted that we have opened the entry Housing Supplement. But it is so; until the law is passed and we know what will happen, whether it will be adopted or not, there is in fact so much in the future that, based on the fact that the law is ready and is now under public scrutiny, we cannot yet lay down or spend 30 million there at the time of the adoption of the budgets, as we will then need. That apartment allowance, which will then be returned to the municipalities, will be covered only in the budget for 2022, where it is paid back. That's part of it. The other part is that the law has not yet been adopted. When it is, however, we expect a balance to be taken. At that time, it will be necessary to recall this commitment in the coalition treaty, especially if the marriage goes as far as we have prepared it. I believe he will go, and then these funds will have to be transferred to this item, which is already open in the current documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Gregor Perič will ask the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr. Aleksandri Pivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u358	Thank you, Vice President. Respectable assembly, ministers! I will address the issue of agricultural land protection. We know that Slovenia has at least agricultural land per capita in the European Union, which is a problem. We also know that we have a high share of agricultural areas in the areas because there are restrictions, whether it is hilly or there are other problems, which prevents some use that would have a high economy. When this use is in the valleys, it is easier, but when we have some relief problems, then it is much more difficult, much more expensive. But we also know that we are hit by a relatively low level of self-sustainment. Like fresh fruit – 21%, vegetables – 39%, potatoes – 48%, cereals – 68%, and slightly better meat – about 80%. And we also know that municipalities that are an important factor in the field, so to speak, will have to adopt municipal spatial plans by 2021, as will all four Istrian municipalities, and many in Slovenia. The well-known fact is that the pressure on the wall is very strong and the economy of the building forces all investors to build on a level where the infrastructure is close; and this is in the interest of the municipalities. And in this sense, the shortest is the agricultural land, even if we are talking about Istria, if we have any more knowledge at sea. With regard to this issue, the Ministry indicated that it would establish a rule by which municipalities would be given this task to define agricultural areas within their acts and to permanently protect certain areas. And I want to know: What about areas where some replacement of agricultural land is envisaged? How, then, is this replaced when it comes to some expansion of wall or building land? What is the position of the Minister of Agriculture, the Ministry of which will use leverage to replace lost land? We know that if these land are owned by the agricultural land fund, things are going relatively slowly, and the fund also has relatively limited resources for these purposes because, after all, existing roads, accessible roads, support walls are difficult to sustain. On the other hand, if the municipalities replace these lands, it is difficult for the state to force the congregation to put some resources into the budget so that these operations can then be carried out, let us say that from a forest to a field, something like that. That's why I want to know: What levers will they use at the Ministry to actually replace those areas dedicated to agriculture? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Mr Member, since the Minister has been announced to be in the Chamber, but she is not here, please specify whether you want an oral answer at the next sitting or in writing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u360	Thank you, Vice President. I agree to get a written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister of Culture mag. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u362	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister of Culture! As you know, a bad month ago, the Association network with more than thirty co-signatures of umbrella organisations and bearers in the field of culture reminded the Government of the Republic of Slovenia not to disregard the commitments made in cultural policy and recorded in the coalition agreement, in particular with regard to the support of NGOs and self-employed people in culture. This public letter of art creators and cultural workers was followed by a letter from the Gloss Culture Union. We have now also received a public letter addressed to the President of the Government by the College of Directors of Slovenian Theatres, which brings together 11 public institutions, which I will not list here. In a public letter to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the College pointed out that despite the abolition of austerity measures, the situation in public institutions has not improved, as it can be seen at first sight, given that wages have risen slightly in the public sector. The resources in the budget of the Ministry of Culture have not increased sufficiently, resulting in a further reduction of programming resources for theatre public institutions. The programme funds are intended to create new performances, host and prepare festivals. In doing so, it should be noted that a significant proportion of the success of public institutions is carried by creative teams composed of directors, stagewriters, composers, choreographers, musicians, guest players. They all tend to act as self-employed in culture and, therefore, by reducing programming resources, they also indirectly reduce a resource that supports a large part of the self-employed in culture. And it is precisely to them that this coalition agreement is most intended for. It should be stressed that theatres in times of crisis did not reduce even production, this is the number of performances, nor did they suffer the quality of performances, and theatre visits have even been on the rise in recent years. Theatre institutions have taken advantage of all their additional potential and now they no longer have any room for manoeuvre. Although the former governments and ministers swore that austerity measures were only temporary in nature, it obviously became a constant. That's why I'm asking you: When will the promise made by the ministers before you be fulfilled, given that the crisis is already over? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u364	Madam Member, all that you have said in your question is quite true. The whole problem, the general functioning of Slovenian national theatres or theatres, which are somehow managed and owned by local communities, is in fact very fine. All I can say at this point is that the train that crashed into the gap stopped at least this year. Even in 2020 and 2021, this is true for more than €2 million and €249 000 more for 2021 for theatre operations. All together, if you believe it or not, 63 million are dedicated to the full operation of Slovenian theatres. It is true, however, that the vast majority, as well as in our budget, go on almost 90% of all funds in real terms for wages. The Ministry of Culture with that small share – with which I will not really say it is freely available, but it devotes it to the entire segment of Slovenian culture, which after these ten years of impoverishment still needs some new injections, incentives – worries also within this, as you have rightly found, to ensure the existence of all these self-employed people working in the field of culture in all segments, from creative artists to all professions operating within the field of performing art. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Culture cannot provide them with all this in such a short time. However, in this place I can promise and somehow ensure that we think that much will change with the adoption of the Law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. What I'm not supposed to say now is the cultural euro, of course, does not provide direct funds for all of what you listed, but in fact means, indirectly, one way of releasing those funds that are now intended, if I say so, to put out the fires behind you. All these released resources, of course, also through the start of our fight in one way, to ensure that culture is included in cohesion policy with its priority axis, which, in the first and second, has been neglected in the third, in fact means money that will ensure everything else, that the budget, which is now slightly more than 190 million and which is available, will in fact only be used, only, I repeat the third time, only for people and projects and also within performing arts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask an additional question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u366	Thank you, Minister, for this promise that you will put the fire out because it really has to be put out. At the beginning of this year, the College of Directors of Slovenian Theatres prepared an overview of the programme support since 2011 when these austerity measures took place. This is about the funds the Ministry of Culture has dedicated to financing direct programming costs, these are mainly the costs of creator fees and the material costs of stage performances. This financial table for the period 2011-2019 shows that support for theatre programming has fallen by more than EUR 1 million during this period. I don't think any industry has suffered such a fall. That's 24%. And if the support amounted to €4.5 million in 2011, in 2019 it fell to €3.4 million. In the past nine years, this decline in resources has also been accompanied by a crisis saving on the labour costs segment, which has meant that theatres have had to reduce the number of employees. Thus today, the human resources potential of theatres has been reduced by around 6%, and this state of the public institutions are, of course, trying and must resolve by engaging external participants, for whom we have just found that there is a lack of resources. It is sad that the share of culture in the overall budget for 2020 does not reach 2%, exactly 1.82%. Therefore, I am convinced that this increase is far too small and that some areas of creativity are neglected, even abandoned, and some are running out of funds. Here we really need to take these issues seriously, for culture absolutely deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u367	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u368	Of course, I agree with everything that's been said. Our commitment at the Ministry is also to somehow achieve at least this strange 2% of the budget for culture. I say that the adoption of this special law and then the inclusion of a culture to draw on cohesion will make it possible to do so to some extent. However, I must also add here that we are in constant contact and connection with Slovenian theatres. We have prepared for an open debate material, if I may say so, which means the beginning of an attempt to reorganise the entire scheme of priority theatres, those which are state-owned, that means important national houses, and also all those which are partly semi-professional and partly in municipal governance and ownership. Just after tomorrow we have a large round table and a meeting on this topic in Maribor. I hope that we will not only stay in the provision of funds, but also try to reorganise and perhaps solve these extremely pressing problems with a new approach. Once again, to make it not sound like a mantra, these two new projects — if I say so, a new law, which is also a coalition commitment, and a integration into cohesion — actually represent a solution for many a problem that is still kind of pressing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u369	Thank you very much. We continue to ask the questions sent. Member Marko Bandelli is next in line to raise a question to the Minister of Finance, Dr Andre Bertoncelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u370	President, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, in early October we learned that the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia (Furs) is to move the tax sector from Sežana to Koper. Let me add that in the Sežana area they never had their own tax office, since this area is covered by the Koper Financial Office based in Cyprus. However, since they are faced with spatial distress at the Koper headquarters, they are forced to do business in other locations, including in Sežana. Next year, the Financial Office of Koper is expected to move to new premises, which is also expected by unit pooling in terms of optimisation of work processes. In practice, therefore, moving the office to the new premises of the Cyprus Financial Office. This move would mean quite a blow for local development, employees and residents. I am also opposed to the measure envisaged. I've already explained this to the Coast News. People from remote regions of Slovenia also pay taxes and deserve adequate access to these services. I'm sure the country saves where it doesn't really need to. Moving the tax sector from Sežana to Koper represents the centralisation of the state administration, which negatively affects the functioning of the city and the availability of services for citizens. Many services should be provided by the hosts with this measure in Cyprus, which takes longer and also higher costs. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: When can we expect Furs' final decision to move ten employees from Sežana to Koper? What is the Ministry's position on this? Don't you think that makes jobs more poor and hinders regional development? I expect the Ministry to act in favour of the local population and employees. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u371	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u372	Dear Member! Due to the lack of space in the business building at the headquarters of the Financial Administration in Cyprus, the Ministry of Public Administration, which is the manager of the business premises owned by the Republic of Slovenia, has joined the search for the spatial most rational solution for this office. And when – and only then – the Koper administration centre is ready to move in and the Coper Financial Office will assess which services will be provided at which location, it will be possible to decide on the relocation of the Koper Financial Office. In this part, we will certainly take into account the aspect and interest of the local population as well as the employees in both locations, if I put it that way. Taking into account the fact that taxpayers must have the timely, sufficient, legally relevant information they need to meet their tax obligations in a timely and timely manner, which is particularly important for older and other taxable persons who do not know how to use websites or the Internet, I stress that the performance of tasks in the financial office remains unchanged. Once again; in this part, when we decide on this spatial solution, we will certainly take into account the interests of taxpayers, taxpayers and also employees in one and the other locations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u374	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I really hope this works out in the best way, I believe that. You know, it's a service for different domestic manufacturers. This is where certain excise duties and the transport of machinery are paid and returned. As you know, there's wine in Crassus, there's brewers and, above all, there's spirits like that. And they're extremely far away from Kopra. As a welcome welcome, this option came when they arrived in Séžana, absolutely. Brkini and Kras, there are 30 kilometers to Sežana and the remaining 30 kilometers to Kopra, a total of 60. If a farmer goes, that's 120 kilometers, he loses all day. This was very important for them to keep this in Sežana for that very purpose. This was just one of the many cases that this office is probably offering. So much for an explanation on my part. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Minister, would you like another word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u376	I would like to stress what I am now, because one question about decentralisation in Prekmurje has already been raised. It is my view that I advocate decentralisation and that these offices remain where they are; or in cases where this is necessary, where the distances are greater and where it is possible to return a tax office to this location. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u377	Thank you very much. Ambassador Primož Siter will ask the Minister for Culture mag. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u378	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister of Culture, hello! I'll talk about the situation of NGOs. The fact is that non-governmental organisations, and particularly those in culture, are the key to public funding for their survival and development. The government coalition also wrote in its coalition contract, citing: "We will provide a separate budget line for NGOs and self-employed in culture in the budget of the Ministry of Culture and the doubling of funds by 2020." We are at the time of the budget, a commitment must be taken seriously. NGOs have also called on the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance to take the matter seriously and to regulate the situation of NGOs and self-employed people in culture. In spite of the commitment, professional NGOs in culture do not have their own items, they are scattered across different sources. The own item is, of course, crucial that the matter can be developed, the organisation can survive and move on. We expected culturers and those we have been monitoring to draw up a coalition treaty and to draw up a budget for this to be resolved as promised, but it is not. I therefore ask you in this regard: How did you meet the needs for systematic support for the self-employed and non-governmental sectors in the 2020 budget? Why have you not fulfilled this part of the coalition commitment on doubling funding for NGOs and self-employed people in culture by 2020? So what's the new possible timeline? Why did you not implement the coalition commitments on a stand-alone budget line for NGOs and self-employed people in culture in the preparation of the 2020 budget? What are the reasons, and what is the possible new timeline? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u379	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u380	Mr Member, thank you for this question. If we go back a little bit, the funding of the Ministry of Culture decreased by more than a third in 2010 to 2018. This is, of course, only one of the reasons why, with the rebalance of the budget in 2019, we increased the funds for this truly underserved sector by EUR 800,000. And in accordance with the Coalition Treaty commitment, we have ensured a gradual increase in funding for the non-governmental sector in 2019 with a rebalancing of 800,000. It is true, however, that by approving the 2020 budget rebalancing, these funds do not increase and remain on the basis of the rebalancing of 2019. If I try to do this somehow, of course the activity of the non-governmental sector within all the art industries is in the public interest, in particular and sometimes because certain areas of culture or art are still developing only or at least in this context, which is in itself understandable. It follows that cultural policy must also provide non-governmental sector operators with sufficient incentive to work for creative, search and innovation. And I personally think that cultural policy is already slowly showing changes in the direction of support and the development of a very important pillar in culture, which, of course, is represented by the non-governmental sector. In the coming years, the task of cultural policy is to implement the renewal of tendering mechanisms, which is what we are already doing. We must note that we are in the midst of the digitalisation process of the entire tendering field at the Ministry of Culture, which prepares more than 320 different calls each year. This digitisation means that even the tendering field will be fully unified and the tenders will differ only in the substantive work. This in one way also simplifies all procedures for the non-governmental sector, because we ourselves know that sometimes red tape causes extraordinary problems; not only on the part of the recipients of all these funds, but also on the part of the Ministry of Culture. In one way, we all expect that a large part of these problems, with this digitisation of the entire tender area, will be reduced to a large extent, simplified if not even disappearing. The second moment I have to point out is the next. Our commitment is also to prepare a resolution of the new national cultural programme by the end of this year. For the first time in history, the preparation of this umbrella document, which then also allows different legal solutions for a variety of fields within the operation of culture and art, is open very wide. During the summer and even in the autumn we have done several very inclusive workshops, namely, workshops that have, in fact, enabled our employees to take a closer look at a little more lively action in the cultural field in general. Many of these conclusions, the conclusions that have emerged, will not be said in the debate, in this joint effort and in the desire to regulate the situation, will also bring a large part of this new national programme on culture; a part that aims at self-employed people in a way that makes them self-employed in culture, their representatives have actively participated in the preparation of this document. Personally, this debirocracy is really very important to me, and it is also part of the attempt of this open form, of this approach, of this dialogue, which we very often carry out in culture by self-employed people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u381	Thank you very much, Minister. Time's up. Do you want to ask a complete question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u382	Thank you very much. When we talk about the amount of funds allocated by the Ministry to NGOs; the NGO centre, which is perhaps the most accredited state-of-the-art escort and cut-off, how much funding individual ministries devote to NGOs, says that the Ministry has allocated 6 million 251 thousand in 2017 and that in 2014 it has a good 2 million more. But now we are in a year where we are boasting of record historical growth at all levels, in the economy, in the amount of the budget, in GDP growth and so on; however, it comes to the extent to which it is transferred through this network to NGOs. I understand your unloving situation. No one really likes the budget cut. I am particularly interested in this operational work, as you are in the executive, operational branch of the authorities: How will this be translated into practice for NGOs in the light of the coalition agreement in 2020? How specifically will the situation on the ground be resolved? How will you act in the context of the well-nourished state of NGOs and unfortunately also of individuals in the field of culture and art by providing some material basis for their operation and development? So how is this going to be operationally, executively reflected on the ground in 2020?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u383	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u384	Thank you. Purely operational; first, by adopting a new national programme on culture, which will also lead to new calls, as I have already pointed out in some responses today, by adopting a special law on the provision of funds for certain specific programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, which will allow, as I have said before, a substantial release of the resources of our integrated budget, if I say so, the Ministry of Culture. But it's not until 2021. As far as the independent position of self-employed people for culture is concerned, this stand alone is already there for us to understand; of course, self-employed in culture are then distributed in different sectors, if we are talking about visual arts, intermedia arts, music and so on. If all of this were combined under one heading, then we can almost talk about a special ministry for self-employed people in culture, which is probably no one's wish. For the year to come, I can assure you that we will make every effort and make an extraordinary effort not only to talk but also to find solutions. You probably know, Mr Member, that there is something already happening in this area this year that many things are still going on and are in their final phase, although this may seem to be a minor problem, but it is not; from providing special pensions to really constructive talks in ministries that are somehow responsible for the situation in this area. I hope that all these discussions, all this dialogue leads to useful solutions, solutions that will drink water and that will satisfy all of us in one way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u385	Thank you very much. You have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u386	Thank you very much. My procedural proposal is for the National Assembly to hold an extensive debate on this subject, especially in the light of the fact that we have been assured that these things can only be resolved in 2021; I am talking in essence about 2020 and the situation on the ground now. Once again, I would like to stress as some support for the procedural proposal that NGOs themselves have addressed the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Finance with a request to take the promises contained in their coalition contract seriously and that their own stand is the key to concrete and solid financing of the NGOs and the culturers that operate within them. Now this isn't here, so I'm guessing it's worth a call from the field, as always, to take it seriously. Culturers who are on the ground dealing with the problem of non-governmental organisations and self-employed people in culture on a daily basis need to be taken seriously. I therefore call on the State Assembly to hold an extensive debate in this light. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, October 22nd, in the framework of the votes. The Magnificent Messenger. Dusan Verbic will ask the Minister of Finance, Dr. Andre Bertonclj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u388	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Good evening. Good evening to you all. Dear Minister, as you know, we have witnessed an unloving complication this year with the request of the media to disclose the contents of the agreement on the termination of the employment relationship in the position of the President of the Slovenian State Holding Board. It later turned out that the media were right and that following the resignation of the SDH CEO, the former president agreed that she could remain employed in SDH by the end of 2020 at the latest and that she had kept the remuneration she received in the management position for virtually no work. The latter, after public pressure, left SDH and became employed by GEN-I. Whose property is GEN-I already owned? It's a very timely question. The SDH did not wish to transmit the information to the media because the data requested were classified as a business secret, but the information officer decided, as the appellant, that it was a matter of spending public funds, representing public information, and that SDH, as a business secret, had identified the information that should be public. However, the contested SDH practice is not the only one. Something similar happened to Telekom. As early as the end of 2018, we were faced with opposition from SDH to the disclosure of various advisory contracts, and there is certainly nothing wrong with them, since I am aware that certain analyses need to be obtained to manage the country's capital investments in companies operating on international markets. It is perfectly logical that the results of these analyses and the specific details of the SDH procedures carried out shall be treated as a business secret and shall not be disclosed at the time of conclusion of the transactions. It is not understandable, however, that, according to my assessment, contrary to the Act on Access to Public Information, SDH does not disclose the analysis and advice contracts themselves in the course of sales proceedings, of course after a completed or concluded business. So, Mr. Secretary, I ask you: Have you considered joining the changes to the law governing the operation of SDH regarding the provision of information of a public nature?
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u389	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u390	Dear Member! The Slovenian State Holding is an economic company and must comply with all the rules applicable to other companies; unless otherwise specified in the law governing the Slovenian State Holding Act or in another law for individual conduct. I have already stated my views on some of these questions that you have asked in the previous reply, but let me give you some additional points of view. In the very identification of data and information that means business secrecy, SDH and other business entities must follow the requirements or criteria set out in the law governing business secrecy. This is the Business Secrets Act, which, in addition to defining business secrets, also regulates the protection of business secrets against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. On the other hand, given that the Act on Access to Public Information is a business entity under the dominant influence of a public law person, it is bound by the provisions of this Act in the work governing access to the public information required for these entities. This law lays down in Article 4a very precisely what information is public in the case of business entities under the dominant influence of public law persons. Furthermore, in Article 6a, what are the public data of business entities under the dominant influence of public law? The law governing SDH contains provisions which, according to the objectives and tasks performed by SDH, commit the company to specific conduct and relate to data protection and internal information, the obligation to publish certain information on their websites, the disclosure of SDH payment traffic data and the disclosure of their operation at all assemblies. Additional determination of undisputed SDH information in the law governing SDH, which must be made publicly available, is not necessary in our opinion. The area covered by the above-mentioned laws, the Business Secrets Act and the Public Information Access Act, is regulated in such a way that, subject to all their relevant provisions, I stress here, taking into account good practice – and not as you said, disputed practice – should not lead to complications and interventions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u391	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u392	Thank you again very much, Chairman. I am still in the position that, in specific cases, there has been a disputed practice. 'Cause at the same time, I'm asking you, Mr. Honorable Minister: Have you initiated any proceedings against members of the SDH Supervisory Board who have concluded such contracts? I estimate that they are to the detriment of taxpayers, because this work is far from the principle of economic treatment of taxpayers' money. Of course, I also have in mind a series of studies and advisory contracts that are ordered either within SDH or, as it were, by state-owned companies. I firmly believe that if members of the supervisory boards and administrations that manage state assets and do not operate in accordance with the principle of a good host, and in particular with the principle of a custodian, you are obliged to act at least once a year at the Society Assembly. For during his term of office, the Minister of Finance is the owner, or holder, of the state property. Poor practice in state-owned companies should also end slowly in this part where there is much talk about corporate governance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u393	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u394	We agree on a lot of things. I think this area is properly regulated by laws, I said two. This area is regulated or at least trying to regulate what we call good corporate practice, good corporate governance. We probably agree that everything with the law and regulations cannot be regulated. There will always be a bypass, a procedure, or an individual who will not follow this good practice. In this work, our recommendation has been made and, of course, our recommendation, as far as SDH is concerned, is that of the Government as a congregation. However, in my personal case, I have also always recommended that companies should be managed in accordance with good corporate practice. In this area, a lot has been done in Slovenia lately, I must say. But there are still what I have already named today, anomalies that are really unnecessary. In this sense, all of these measures, which have already been implemented in this part, I see as a preventive measure that, above all, we do not have to repeat these bad practices. But we have this area modelly regulated by these practices at the level of Europe, and we just have to stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u395	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Ambassador Vojko Starović will ask Health Minister Aleš Šabedra a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u396	Your Honor, as many of us as there are, Minister of Respect! Slovenia does not have a uniformly regulated comprehensive long-term care system. There was a lot of talk about this in the last week at the two meetings of the Committee, including at the meeting of the National Assembly, and there was a lot of talk about it. This does not mean that not all services are available, but they are scattered across different systems — health care, pension and disability insurance, social services and family policies. We have been talking about a long-term supply law to define and simplify, including in the light of Europe's guidelines, a system of services and measures aimed at persons who, for various reasons, have been dependent on the assistance of others in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks for a good decade. During that time, it also passed the power to draft a law from one ministry to another, which certainly did not contribute to the possibility of bringing this law to such a level that it was going into proceedings and adoption. Dear Minister, I believe that the Long-Terms Act is still a priority of the Ministry. That's why I'm asking you: When will the Ministry prepare this law and send it into process and adoption? We also have the Health and Health Insurance Act on the table, and all of this is connected. I'm just asking you to tell us the time stamp. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u397	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u398	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! In the coalition agreement for the period 2018-2022, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia committed itself to the establishment of a self-sustaining, integrated and sustainable system of long-term care that will allow individuals and families to choose free forms of care with quality social and health services and comparable rights for comparable needs of course. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also committed itself to enacting a long-term supply law that will provide beneficiaries with an adequate level of supply and will not overburden younger generations; a law that will place the user at the centre and give him an active role in planning and carrying out long-term care. The Ministry of Health is following the commitments of the coalition agreement by preparing a proposal for a law on long-term care as one of the main priorities of the Ministry of Health. The Ministry of Health, in cooperation with other departments, is also continuing the necessary activities in connection with the drafting of the bill. In accordance with the 2019 regulatory work programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, April 2020 is set as the deadline for the adoption of the long-term supply law. The final assessment of the financial implications of the bill, the way and the identification of the method of financing will be fully known only after completion of inter-ministerial coordination with other ministries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u399	Thank you very much. Is there anything else you'd like to add? No more, no more, no more. Then we're done with this work. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Ambassador Luka Mesec will ask the finance minister Dr Andre Bertonclj and the minister of culture mag. Zoran Poznań. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u400	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! As foretold, I will ask a question about the budget for the Slovenian film. I place it because one year ago we had an urgent meeting of the Committee on Culture on the issue of Slovenian film, where all the main players of the Slovenian film were present. They presented a very clear picture, namely the Slovenian film is in a catastrophic state. In 2011, EUR 11 million was promised for the Slovenian film. In 2013, a strategy of Slovenian film was adopted, after which this budget was to be implemented between 2014 and 2017. We are now at the number of €5.5 million, which will not increase over the next two years in this budget. This includes Slovenia not only on the tail of Europe, but even on the tail of the former republics of Yugoslavia. Only Montenegro and Kosovo have a smaller film budget. Let me put this a little bit into perspective; as much as the entire budget of the Slovenian film, I'm talking about 5.5 million euros, it's less than the budget of one German feature film, which is on average 6.1 million euros. This topic is not only problematic in this narrow segment of culture, but it is mainly problematic because of the lack of resources in this area that many talented producers, directors, screenwriters, film teams are going abroad. Anyone who makes a breakthrough in Slovenia with a film will probably not get a new project in the next five to seven years. That is why Rok Bicek, director of the legendary Class Enemy filmed in 2013, is now working in Croatia; Sara Kern works in Australia. Similar fates are shared by Mitja Okorn, Rok Hana Slak, Olmo Omerz and others. Last year we had a number of breakthrough projects in Slovenian film, I'm talking mainly about films I'm not going to be a loser and Consequences. The results were also the first Slovenian film for which HBO GO bought rights and found it on this channel. But the producers of these films are back or they're going to run out of money. I therefore ask the Minister for Culture and the Minister for Finance: In spite of last year's unanimous decision, supported by purely all parliamentary parties, why does the budget for the Slovenian film not increase in the next budget period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u401	Thank you very much. First of all, the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u402	They usually point to me first. The resources of each ministry, i.e. in this case the competent Ministry of Culture, plan and provide, for individual purposes, within the framework of their adopted financial plan or within government limits and in accordance with the priorities of the Ministry itself, as you know. The Ministry of Finance in this part does not have any legal powers to set or set priorities for individual ministries and the rights of use for individual purposes within their own, for example in this case the adopted or envisaged financial plan; therefore only the competent minister may answer the question of specific purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u403	Thank you very much. And Mr. Minister Mag. It's late. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u404	And the competent minister answers like this. It is true; what has been said in this question is indeed true. I am always answering the question of the Left that this is a very pressing problem and that we are still aware of it. It's a joke to the side, though. In this year's adoption of the budget, all I am going to say is in one way, in principle, the art of possible. It is true that the funding for the film has increased significantly; and it is true that the commitment is to reach a total of 11 million by 2022. We're kind of in the middle of something right now. Of course, that's not enough. We are also in constant contact with film workers, with their associations, and are discussing possible ways of solutions. One of the main strategies for designing a financial policy for financing a film from Croatia comes to us tomorrow. We all know that Croatians made a quantum leap ahead years ago, and I don't know why they wouldn't use such good practices in Slovenia. The reason for this is also the last event, in fact the last shot in Triglav National Park, where we and the Slovenian Film Centre encountered extremely large bureaucratic problems that we successfully solved. There was a team of 60 people from Hollywood, from the United States, who were then prevented by a bureaucratic decision from starting filming; assuming that this team would leave around €4 million in Slovenia. But this was also the reason that we, together with other competent ministries, have already set up one project group to look for solutions in this direction; now I am talking about tax reliefs or I am talking purely about direct reverse financing of Slovenian production in order to understand each other. This is just a circumstantial path that we have to use, but this will be an attempt to find funding for Slovenian film somewhere else. We are also planning and thinking about a number of mergers of activities that are now in one way and are sometimes, I will not say, bottomless frogs; but we are needlessly spending resources where they are not really needed. There's a lot of ways to get that money. But again, I must draw attention to the adoption of the cultural euro, which, as already mentioned for the fourth time today, will allow the Ministry of Culture to make those funds, which are not bound, intended, as I have already said today, for projects and for people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u405	Minister, thank you. The MP wants to ask a complete question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u406	Thank you. Once again, Slovenian film is a very pro-pulsive industry with great potential. In 2016, 25 Slovenian films were screened at 49 international festivals and received 17 awards. As it is said, all listed – Darko Stante, who directed the film Consequences, Urša Menart, who directed the film I will not be a loser anymore, and people who are already outside: Mitja Okorn, Rok Hana Slak, Rok Bicek, Olmo Omerzu – we are talking about top directors who do not get projects in Slovenia. This year, due to the lack of resources on the reserve list, 13 projects remain in the Slovenian Film Fund, and I repeat the question. Last year, it was decided to gradually increase to 11 million by 2022. At the time of the adoption of last year's rebalancing, since the decision was taken before the adoption of the rebalancing, a positive signal was given to the filmmakers, the funds rose by half a million euros, which is not for a single Slovenian film, but is close to 600 000 on average such a film costs; there is now stagnation in this budget. For 2020, €5 million is projected for €343,000, even less than €5 million for 2021. I want to know: Will it remain in this regard, or will you receive funds to at least get closer to the goal we have set ourselves? I repeat, all parliamentary parties, NSI, SDS, SMC, SNS, LMŠ, SD and Levi, we supported the decision at that time. This is a unanimous, consensual decision by the whole Parliament that these funds must be increased. And I want to know: Whether you will consider Parliament as the executive branch of authority or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u407	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u408	Thank you. Of course, it won't stay on what the current situation is. However, I must say to the public that this year the Ministry of Culture has earmarked an additional EUR 800,000 for co-financing of film production and development. In addition, an additional EUR 311 000 was earmarked for the purchase of equipment and maintenance for Viba Film Ljubljana Film Studio. We are working as hard as we can to redistribute resources within our budget. Once again, I stress that we are looking for new ways of co-financing. For 2020, all public institutions in the field of film under the draft budget receive €670 000, co-financing of audiovisual media programmes is planned at a low of €6 million, and for the Slovenian Film Centre, the public agency is allocated €4.7 million, of which the majority will be allocated to co-financing of films, project development, festival performance actions, film education and film professions, i.e. for transfer funds, and for programming and material costs. In particular, we have also planned funds for monetary incentives to invest in the production of EUR 1 million. Somehow we try, as far as we can, to follow this covenant that was given. In this place, I can promise that we will do everything we can to make this number one way — anyhow, if we add it together — by 2022 it will also be fulfilled and realized. There's nothing more the Minister for Culture can say right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u409	Thank you very much. The Member has the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u410	Thank you for your word. In the film I will no longer be a loser directed by the director of the younger generation Urša Menart, 1985, who also became the first director in the history of Slovenia, who received the award for the best Slovenian feature film at the Festival of Slovenian Film, is a beautifully metaphorically presented role or position of the Slovenian film it has in the country. In fact, the hero of the story in the film is Špela, a 29-year-old Ljubljana girl who, despite her university education or because of her, as her mother says, does not get a job in any way. That's why it survives with various poorly paid occasional parts through a borrowed student travel guide as an ambulance from the swimming pool, waitress and so on, and remains trapped in this purgatory of festive life, where there is no way to find its place under the sun. When it is finally stolen from the film by the only means it has — a bicycle, it has nothing but escape abroad. And since Slovenian film also runs out of funds, you actually force Slovenian film producers to look for happiness abroad; and they will give bread to people from those countries, promote those countries; and Slovenia will lose the enormous potential that these people have already shown. I therefore propose that we discuss this issue again, and we also discuss why the Committees' unanimous conclusions are not taken into account, or why the government has simply ignored the decision adopted unanimously on the Committee on Culture in the budgets for 2020 and 2021, which is an increase of €11 million.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u411	Thank you very much. Your proposal to discuss the Minister's response will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 22 October, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Marko Bandelli will ask the Minister of Public Administration Rudi Medved a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u412	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister Bear! Finding suitable employment is one of the most important tasks of each individual and represents a major turning point in his life. Employment in public administration is expected to be safer as it represents a more stable existential security for the individual and his family. Despite the greater safety of employees, the public administration is synonymous with the majority of public opinion on inefficiency. According to publicly available data, between September and April this year, a total of 4 000 people, exactly 4 000 189, were newly employed in the public sector. Eleven years. Thirty-one thousand. And the salary went up by seven percent. Public sector workers' salaries in April this year amounted to €346 million, an increase of 6.8% over September last year. Every month since April, the public sector has cost us 22 million euros more than last September. Dear Minister, it is known that a good part of the wage increase stems from an agreement with the public sector unions last December. I want to know: Does the public administration's employment policy actually follow human resources needs and actually employ public administrations where staff are lacking? Is the ministry considering a reform that would achieve greater efficiency in the functioning of public administration and thus make it more flexible? Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u413	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u414	Thank you very much. The honourable Member, I am saddened by the fact that we are always talking about the public sector as inefficient, as some kind of creation that is trapped as a parasite in this society. I can't agree with that. If we keep telling someone how bad he is, how can we expect him to be motivated by such treatment? That he'll be motivated to work? And that's pretty much the case in general. In particular, after we have conducted these negotiations with the public sector unions on salary corrections, we know how much burden the public sector has borne in times of crisis and how it has in fact given up on many things. However, even data on the number of employees in the public sector vary or is taken by many as is most appropriate at that time. The number of employees in the public sector, i.e. payers, has increased from 172 000 590 to 175 000 222 for the period between April 2019 and September 2018, according to the Information System for the transmission and analysis of data on salaries, other payments and the number of employees in the public sector, i.e. the so-called ISPAP, which means an increase of 2 000 632 employees, i.e. people who received public sector wages. I am talking about the whole public sector, where more than 170 000 people are employed, so people are coming and going. We know that in recent years the number of employees in the public sector has increased most where the needs were greatest – mainly in the education system, partly in health care and other activities, but not in the public administration. The number of employees in the state administration has almost not changed in the last year. It varies from month to month for any employee up or down, but has not changed significantly and remains at a level of 30,000. And thanks to this – at least for the last year, we can say this, and also for the next two years, who have looked into the law on the implementation of the budget, is aware of this – precisely because of the very restrictive employment policy in the state administration and the state authorities run by this government, and, of course, the Ministry of Public Administration is also responsible for the implementation of this system. Very restrictive policies where, in fact, minimum new jobs are allowed in particular where needs are greatest. This is – and this was also one of the conclusions of the Economic and Social Council – in the field of various inspection services, there we have a strong supply of food for employment, in the area of judicial officers, the police in general, the military and other such services. So officials in this sense of the word were practically not employed in the public administration during this period. True, but the numbers vary slightly from month to month. With regard to the restrictive nature of the human resources policy in the state administration, I have somehow explained to you how the Government is leading it, but of course I cannot talk about politics in the whole public sector or in public administration. The Ministry or Government of the Republic of Slovenia has no direct influence on part of the public administration. I'll continue on further questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u415	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u416	Minister, thank you. At the same time, I really need to ask you a few more questions. As Minister, you know what that expression is when we say meritocracy. That's what you say, the one who's good gets better paid than the one who's bad at a certain field. We didn't do it. All we did was raise all the wages in the public sector after the defolk. One, two classes, as much as it took. Wages have risen tremendously. But rightly, I don't know, even for those who aren't motivated. I also want to know: What is the policy of forgiveness in the public sector? Has it begun to think that there will be forgiveness in the public sector as well as in the real sector? Because here there is a shortage of motivation, for example – we have a lot of good employees and we have a great potential for new employees who could be even better and more effective in the workplace. That's why I'm so sorry, too, because that's an expression, inefficiency, because it's not true. Many are also extremely capable, and it's good that we have them. You know, in the real sector, people are also paid after success and then they fall into different scales and are also a burden for the employer. In the state sector and in the public sector, this goes to the country, so that we should see what can be done here. Now I want to know: Why did you have to hire so many people? My data is 4,000 189 in six months. This is publicly available data. At the same time, you know on your own that there is a big problem in some sectors that prevents employment. I hope you are aware of the extent to which public servants receive an additional increase in their workload. I am very interested in this and I ask that we get this information to our parliamentary group, to our client. If you get this information, how much more work does it get? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u417	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Minister, please, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u418	Of course, I do not have accurate data on the increased scope of work here and you will get it in the parliamentary group. We simply do not pay public sector performance in practical terms from the introduction of a single pay system. Why? As the crisis hit the single pay system immediately and the work performance in the true sense of the word and, as regulated by the law, has never paid off. We are solving this with a new Law on the Public Sector Wage System. We have already presented it to trade unions, we have gone over the past period to those directly concerned by this law, i.e. to public sector employees at various levels, and we have presented it to them. This is at least a partial reform of the pay system, where we anticipate a significantly better award of effective, capable ones, and, of course, more incentives for public sector employment are also appropriate. Because you know, people don't yell at the public sector anymore. That's probably clear. Experts are going to the real sector because they are better paid there in the current situation. Why wasn't that done this year? I think it is quite clear that such an intervention in the pay system takes time. In the past, some ministers in Parliament have already tried to partially reform the single pay system in this direction, which I am now talking about, because Members asked them whether this was in line with the unions. And since it wasn't consistent with the unions, nobody even wanted to talk about it. We are now coordinating this with both trade unions and public sector employees. I'm optimistic that by the end of the next spring we'll be putting this bill under the roof. And next year in June, when one of the last austerity measures expires, this is the failure to pay off work performance when it is released, we want to achieve that it can be paid after a new one, i.e. in a different form and significantly more stimulating for employees.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u419	Thank you very much, Minister. After all, send the data to the National Assembly, but it will be received by the parliamentary group. Thank you. We're moving on. Ambassador Nataša Sukić will ask the Minister of Defence Karl Erjavac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u420	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I'm afraid there's no minister. Another one today that's escaped from me, with the ministers from the repressive camps, I'm not lucky today, but whatever. In the absence of the Minister, the Government intends to spend or spend as much as €1.2 billion over the next eight years to form two medium-term battalion fighting groups, which is more than the budget for the Ministry of Health in the last eight years. As you know, in Levica we strongly oppose the insidious spending of some future scribbling, old, rusty iron, especially when it comes to the billions of purchases of military equipment for the participation of the Slovenian Army in some NATO expeditional corps in the countries of the world periphery. But as we can see, the coalition in arms purchases for NATO does not give up, nor does it give up on social cuts, although it does have a social and, of course, an improvement in the situation of pensioners full of mouth. It is not surprising, therefore, that we have noticed in the media the news that the military has left the study of the acquisition of drones to a private company. Moreover, in the first phase, this company will only be a search engine for other companies. Directly in front of the eyes will be the decision of Director Željk Kralj, Director of Logistics, to provide the Ministry for the Search for Drone Developers, instead of doing so alone, with the responsibility of a private company to seek out other private companies. And this is a domestic company that would have that knowledge. The document states that the Ministry of Defence wants to identify Slovenian companies that have acquired knowledge and technology that could be used to develop different autonomous systems for use on land, in air and in water. And it is also very clear from the documents that this is a project that is looking for very broad developmental elements of drones. Since 2011, the Ministry of Defence and thus the Slovenian Armed Forces have not had as much budget as they can count on in the next two years, ranging from 1.05 per cent to 1.1 per cent of GDP, which is around EUR 500 million. Thus, the MORS will have as much as €170 million more at its disposal in 2015. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary-General: Why did you hire an external contractor for a job you should have done on your own? Do you really have so much money in your budget that you don't know what to do with it, and you have external contractors to do what you should do on your own? Your Director of Logistics showed last year that he has no idea what he's talking about when he said 8x8 armored men were already in use in the U.S. Army, and a few months ago we read that the U.S. Army just got them tested, and now we're out of line. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u421	Thank you very much. Madam Ambassador, time's up. I agree with you, as well as with some Members from the beginning of the session, that this leakage or the withdrawal of ministers who have not apologized and who then do not answer the questions is not correct. We have a schedule of work assigned. At the beginning of the meeting, we could apologize, as Mr Poklukar did, and I suggest that the President of the National Assembly send one strong warning to the Government or ministers that these things are taken seriously. Otherwise, I think it would also be appropriate to suspend the meeting and wait for the Minister, who is not justified, to attend. We're moving on. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Public Administration Rudy Medved.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u422	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Secretary-General. My question concerns the field of public procurement. I asked you this question already in March this year. At that time, I pointed out that despite the best purpose of the law, we are witnessing the abuse of procedures, and these procedures today manifest themselves in the most extreme form in the case of the construction of the caravan tunnel. So far, you have taken some measures to limit these procedures and attempts at abuse. In the light of the new projects that are expected after the approval of the guarantee law for the second track and third development axis project, I am interested in: What concrete projects can we expect that the projects for which we will adopt the guarantee law can run smoothly in real time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u423	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u424	Thank you very much. First of all, I am pleased that the Government has recently adopted, confirmed and sent to the National Assembly the text of the amendment to the Law on Legal Protection in Public Procurement Procedures. At the Ministry of Public Administration, we first took action to amend this law, not only because of the caravan tunnel, but also, of course, in the light of everything that is going on in some major infrastructure projects. Not only the current ones, even in the past, because of the various interests of delaying, but also the abuse of complaints procedures, which has caused many difficulties so far also to the State Audit Commission. We have checked in the professional public, checked with practically all stakeholders in this country who are more seriously involved in public procurement, that the amendment of this law will, however, be effective before the State Audit Commission in these procedures, in order to reduce the procedures themselves, because it will prevent a continuous new and new complaint from the State Audit Commission on the practical same matters. This novel will never happen again. On the other hand, it also reduces the time limits for the contracting authority to take a decision after the decision of the State Audit Commission. Just in the case of the caravan tunnel, these hands have been running unusually long with the subscriber. And what seems very important to me is the introduction of judicial protection in this process. However, this will be a new catch in our practice, virtually the only one in Europe so far we do not have it. I expect the marriage to be held at the November National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u425	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Here you go, Ambassador Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u426	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for the encouraging news. That's really good news. I come from the construction, engineering sector itself, you will make business easier for many companies and at the same time ensure that the infrastructure they want and need comes in real time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u427	Thank you very much. Anything else you'd like to add, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u428	Thank you very much. This is, of course, perfectly normal, that this is our intention, the purpose of all of us, to prevent this great economic damage that is happening in this country due to these abnormal procurement complications when it comes to large infrastructure projects. I would like to say that, however, the overall public procurement situation is not as bad as the shadow of these procedures, and that we have on average more than 6 000 public contracts per year and less than 2 % of complaints to the State Audit Commission that public procurement procedures in Slovenia, as regards the time dimension, on the European average, take about 64 days on average. Now I'm not talking about those who got so involved, I'm talking about the average. However, legal protection is achieved within a shorter period of time. For instance, we have recently carried out a very complex procurement procedure at the Ministry of Public Administration, where temporary technical obstacles are complex and sensitive, and we have done so within a month. So you can. Legislation already allows for the rapid and very efficient execution of public contracts, of course with the appropriate expertise of both contracting authorities and tenderers.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u429	Thank you very much, Minister. Before I give my word to the final questioner, I inform you that Nataša Sukić wants an oral answer at the next meeting. Now, Mr Boštjan Koražija, who will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Simon Zajc a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u430	Your Honor, thank you very much for your word. The question is for Minister Zajc. I'm very glad he's been so persistent and very professional lately. Thank you. In particular in cities, and elsewhere, especially in the area of stricken settlements, such as luxuriant settlements with about a thousand inhabitants, a specific pattern has already been developed, which we people know very well as a problem of heat pollution or heating. The problem of heat load occurs in particular during warmer periods of the year and is due to specific soil use or to a more precise soil structure. The measurements showed that the temperature difference between the so-built soils and the unwalled soils could exceed 10 °C, thus the difference between the walls and the unwalled. In areas where there is a very narrow building, as well as larger complexes such as factories and shopping centres, heat islands are formed, which significantly reduce the quality of living, productivity, and also have a significant impact on energy consumption, which creates a more favourable, colder climate in the interior, which, on the other hand, contributes again to the rise in temperature within the thermal island. That's why I want to know: Does the Ministry of Spatial Development Strategy also address the issue of thermal stress and how? Are you collecting measurements in the heat islands? If so, which cities or places? What measures in the field of reducing additional heat pressures are already being taken, for example, in the issue of construction or reconstruction permits? For example, we have an albedo, a coefficient by which we measure the reflectivity or absorption of light, which also involves greater or less heating of materials. For example, a burning cover for a smaller heat load is better than a sheet of tin, a stone better than asphalt, natural materials better than artificial materials, and light paint is better than darker. I also want to know: Are you planning to change the rules on the construction of large areas, such as malls, factories, parking lots, in such a way that on the surface of a certain size it is mandatory to plant a certain amount of trees with a large area of cover just to reduce the temperature of the load? The data show that trees can reduce the temperature in their immediate vicinity by between 5 and 15 °C compared to the area where there are no trees. In the event of greening of the shell, for example, the ambient air temperature of the building shall be reduced by up to 4 °C.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u431	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u432	Thanks for the last question tonight. Our Ministry is indeed preparing a strategy for the development of the area of Slovenia 2050 and also the State Spatial Order on the basis of the Law on Spatial Planning. All the documents we are currently preparing are, of course, also prepared with the thought and awareness that climate change is here and that the effects of climate change will increasingly affect our lives. As I have repeatedly pointed out, one is the fight against climate change, but adaptation is just as important. In Slovenia, we are relatively limited in terms of our options for combating climate change, we are a small part of the world, but despite being a small part of the world, the consequences will affect us as well as everyone else, so it is even more important to adapt. The spatial development strategy highlights expected climate change as one of the key future spatial development challenges, stressing the importance of enhanced care to reduce the vulnerability of space and the exposure of the population and infrastructure to the risks associated with the expected impacts of climate change. In cities, more intense rainfall is expected in addition to more frequent and longer heat waves, which will be as problematic as heat. According to Arsa, we will have the same amount of precipitation in Slovenia, but the number of days of precipitation will decrease, which means that in those days when we have precipitation, these will be much stronger, which means that we will be hit twice by having impermeable soil. So not just because of the heat, but also because those precipitations that will fall will not disappear so quickly or will not disappear and will quickly pass into the riverbeds, meaning downstream, of course, flood problems. Spatial and urban planning measures are intended to reduce vulnerability due to climate change or natural disasters, in particular by removing migration and infrastructure from threatened areas and by establishing natural heat-island mitigation agents and extreme events. As an appropriate mitigation measure, the establishment and management of a green infrastructure system related to green cities and other settlements is planned. Green systems have an important climate function in particular in managing heat waves in urban areas and reducing flood risks and droughts. A sufficient volume of open public buildings and green areas shall be provided in the event of renovations or expansions of settlements. In the framework of the State Spatial Order, the Ministry is preparing a new Green System manual in cities and settlements providing guidance to municipalities to determine in their spatial acts the proportion of green areas to each building according to destination and the number of trees, including in parking areas. The outcome of the manual is expected to end this year or early next year, and our ministry will also issue two more manuals in the coming year, namely Green Roofs and facades and Urbanist Design Criteria for the planning of construction plots of buildings. The latter will, inter alia, determine the minimum share of green areas in the building’s construction plot, i.e. a growing area where meteoric waters disappear. It's because of what I said earlier. All these documents are being prepared to mitigate the effects of climate change. With regard to the measurements, however, the following information. Arso carries out measurements of air temperature within the meteorological network in Ljubljana at one location, namely Bežigrad, similar to Maribor and all other major cities. The national meteorological network is intended to monitor the weather and climate conditions at the national level and to adapt the density of the measurement network. In order to monitor the situation of better resolution at the municipal level, the local level is competent, because one measuring station in the city is not enough to detect the city's thermal island. In particular, the urban thermal island of Ljubljana was analysed by satellite measurements in the framework of the international project Urban Heat Islands, in which ZRC SAZU participated as a Slovenian partner, a department for spatial studies, which also has these data or results.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u433	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u434	Thank you for your word. We live in a time of extensive climate change, which we as a society have a significant impact on, so we must do our utmost to make this impact as burdensome and destructive as possible. We have now looked at the roofs of large malls or factories more or less from the point of view of additional electricity or heat losses. Trends in the world are also going in the direction of greening the roofs, as you mentioned. Even if it is just grasslands, the upgrades can then be various urban gardens. Also, water surfaces from a depth of two meters further contribute to lowering temperatures in their surroundings. Experts say that already a 10% increase in green areas in our cities would help keep temperatures in cities at the current level or even lower them by 2050, despite global warming. That's why I want to know: Are you planning to extend the range of measures under Eco Fund subsidies and favourable loans to reduce the heat burden of the urban environment? Are there any changes in the direction of greater protection of trees and trees in urban settlements, particularly in cities, that will reduce the will of each local authority, who often see green areas as a barrier to economic initiative and economic loss? Are you working with other ministries, such as the economy, the public administration, to reduce heat burdens? The public buildings also have large areas that could quickly be included in the heat load reduction kit, as well as some sample examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u435	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u436	The biggest work on spatial planning and urban construction, urban enlargement, urban renewal, the biggest challenges will be where we will spread these cities, at least where I see them. In fact, there is a lot of dissatisfaction as we put our opinions on the UN when flood maps are being drawn up. But this will be what we will need to focus more seriously in the future, and we will also need a greater awareness that these warning cards serve something, so that they are not only to limit some development, but mainly to prevent further damage. About fermenting cities, if that's what we call them. At this point in time, we are actively preparing a new programme for the use of climate funds, and we already have this in mind, and in all the years to come, especially if these recommendations that we are preparing now are to be more seriously implemented, they will be very grateful if any financial incentive for such measures comes from the state level as well, and this state level where I see it, where possible, we are at our ministry and the climate fund. By taking steps that we will propose, we will also make sure that we put some financial incentives behind them to help the congregations in this work. So that, together with the congregations of our citizens, we can make it easier for our citizens in the hottest days, and that when we have more abundant rains, we can prevent or prevent the harmful effects of increased water.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u437	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u438	Thank you for your word. In recent years we have witnessed a real stampede of cutting trees and timber in urban Slovenian environments. From the point of view of the thermal islands in cities, trees function as cooling systems, similar to shrubs and grasslands. In view of the fact that the only beast on our planet is wild global capitalism, which, on a large scale and in general, preys and destroys our living nature and leaves behind total desolation and chaos and its high-carbon footprint, I propose that we hold a broader debate in the National Assembly on the issue of heat pollution in urban and settlement areas caused by large-scale built-up areas, and with the self-preservation and protection of our nature. Once again, I would like to thank the Minister for his perseverance and hard work, and I would just like to say good night to the audience and to the audience.
ParlaMint-SI_2019-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-12.ana.u439	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, October 22nd, in the framework of the votes. The list of Members who intended to ask the question of a Member is exhausted. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. I hereby end the 1st item of the agenda, which we will continue tomorrow, on 22 October 2019, when the National Assembly, in the framework of the votes, decides on the proposed decisions. I am also adjourning the 12th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. All good-bye and a happy journey home. Good night!
